ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the captions Business, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed; and the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including those described under the Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, including Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk 14 Table of Contents factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the SEC, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise. Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company that currently owns land held for development or sale. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or had interests in 203.3 acres of land held for future development or sale, including a storage warehouse. Our primary source of revenue is from the interest income received on our notes receivable and the rents collected on our storage warehouse, and sales of properties. We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. We are advised by Prime under a contractual arrangement that is reviewed annually by our Board of Directors. Our commercial properties are managed by Triad Realty Services, L.P. (Triad), an affiliate of Prime. Triad subcontracts the property-level management and leasing of our commercial properties to Regis Realty I, LLC (Regis I). Critical Accounting Policies We present our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) completed its accounting guidance codification project. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) became effective for the Companys financial statements issued subsequent to June 30, 2009 and is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, we no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating its accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, we refer to the ASC Codification as the sole source of authoritative literature. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby we have determined that we are a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meet certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders as a group lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 15 Table of Contents In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. As of December 31, 2010, IOT is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE. For entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where it is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Companys share of the net earnings or losses of these entities is included in consolidated net income. IOTs investment in Eton Square is accounted for under the equity method. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. Based on our acquisitions to date, our allocation to customer relationship intangible assets has been immaterial. We record acquired above-market and below-market leases at their fair values (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) equal to the difference between (1) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (2) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses. Depreciation and Impairment Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. 16 Table of Contents Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. If we determine that impairment has occurred, the affected assets must be reduced to their face value. ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant and Equipment requires that qualifying assets and liabilities and the results of operations that have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented if the property operations are expected to be eliminated and the Company will not have significant continuing involvement following the sale. The components of the propertys net income that is reflected as discontinued operations include the net gain (or loss) upon the disposition of the property held for sale, operating results, depreciation and interest expense (if the property is subject to a secured loan). We generally consider assets to be held for sale when the transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and there are no known significant contingencies relating to the sale, such that the property sale within one year is considered probable. Following the classification of a property as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded on the assets. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 InterestCapitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real EstateGeneral. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy upon the receipt of certificates of occupancy, but no later than one year from cessation of major construction activity. We cease capitalization on the portion (1) substantially completed and (2) occupied or held available for occupancy, and we capitalize only those costs associated with the portion under construction. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable and also include rents received on a storage warehouse. In accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, we recognize rental revenue of acquired in-place above- and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and accounts for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. Non-performing Notes Receivable The Company considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 17 Table of Contents Interest recognition on Notes Receivable For notes other than surplus cash notes, we record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. On cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income is only recognized to the extent cash is received. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 3 for details on our Notes Receivable. Fair Value Measurement The company applies the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement Contractual Obligations We have contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regards to the payment of mortgages. The following table aggregates our expected contractual obligations and commitments and includes items not accrued, per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, through the term of the obligation such as interest expense. Our aggregate obligations subsequent to December 31, 2010 are shown in the table below (dollars in thousands): Total 2011 2012 2013-2015 Thereafter Long-term debt obligation $ 38,943 $ 31,503 $ 685 $ 6,750 $ 5 Capital lease obligation Operating lease obligation Purchase obligation Other long-term debt liabilities reflected on the Registrants Balance Sheet under GAAP Total $ 38,943 $ 31,503 $ 685 $ 6,750 $ 5 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 from Part II, Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our current operations consist of land held for future development or sale. There is a warehouse located on one of the land parcels that is used for storage and generates some revenues through the leasing of that storage space. Our operating expenses relate mainly to the administration and maintenance costs associated with the land held for development or sale and storage space. We also have other income and expense items. We receive interest income from the funds deposited with our advisor at a rate of prime plus 1.0%. We have receivables from our affiliates which also provide interest income. Our other significant expense item is from the mortgage expense which includes interest payments on the debt secured by our properties. Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2010 to the year ended December 31, 2009 We had a net income applicable to common shares of $1.84 million or $0.44 per diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to a net income applicable to common shares of $0.92 million or $0.22 per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2009. Revenue Rental and other property revenues were $313,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. This represents an increase of $67,000 as compared to the prior period revenues of $246,000, due to an increase in our rental income received from the leasing of our storage warehouse. Expenses Property operations expenses were $164,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. This represents a decrease of $27,000, as compared to the prior period operating expenses of $191,000, due to an overall decrease in costs and additional repairs and maintenance incurred in our storage warehouse. There was no depreciation or amortization expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $40,000 in the prior period. In 2009, we divested ourselves of our commercial segment with the sale of the 2010 Valley View office building and the Parkway Centre retail shopping center, resulting in land held for development or sale remaining as our sole operating segment. Other income (expense) Our interest income was $4.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. This represents a decrease of $0.4 million in the current year, as compared to interest income of $4.7 million in the prior period. The decrease is due to fewer payments received on our notes receivables from Unified Housing Foundation, an affiliated entity. The receivables are surplus cash flow notes. The entity is required to pay on the notes when they generate surplus cash flow, thus interest income is recorded when received. Less surplus cash flow was generated in the current year, as compared to the prior year. Mortgage loan interest expense was $1.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. This represents a decrease of $0.6 million in the current year, as compared to interest expense of $1.9 million in the prior period. The majority of this decrease is due to the modification of the Mercer Crossing land loan, lowering the interest rate by 250 basis points during the later part of 2009. 19 Table of Contents Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees relate to IOTs 10.0% investment in TCI Eton Square, LP. This investment is accounted for under the equity method and recognizes its portion of the current period earnings. Due to the overall positive income, we had a net income fee expense due to our advisor. This fee is based on a percentage of total net income. The net income fee in the current year included a $45,000 credit for the prior years fee related primarily to the tax expense calculated after the net income fee was billed for the prior years net income. Discontinued operations There were no properties included in discontinued operations for 2010. Our discontinued operations for 2009 consist of two commercial properties, an office building and shopping center, 2010 Valley View and Parkway Centre, which were sold in October 2009. The results of operations from these properties are shown below (dollars in thousands): For Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 Revenue Rental $ $ 964 Property operations 354 610 Expenses Interest (448 ) General and administration (11 ) Depreciation (146 ) (605 ) Net income from discontinued operations, before tax 5 Income tax expense (2 ) Income from discontinued operations $ $ 3 Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2008 We had net income applicable to common shares of $920,000 or $0.22 per diluted earnings per share in 2009, which includes income from discontinued operations of $5,000, as compared to a net income applicable to common shares of $26.71 million or $6.41 per diluted earnings per share in 2008, which includes income from discontinued operations of $13.97 million for the same period ended 2008. Revenue Rental and other property revenues decreased from $310,000 in 2008 to $246,000 in 2009. The decrease was due to a loss in rental revenues within our storage property. Expenses Property operating expenses decreased from $381,000 in 2008 to $191,000 in 2009. The decrease was due to an overall decrease in costs and additional repairs and maintenance incurred. Advisory fees decreased from $895,000 in 2008 to $881,000 in 2009. The advisory fees are based on the total net assets. We sold six apartment complexes in January 2008 and one in November 2008, reducing our asset base, thus reducing our fee. 20 Table of Contents Other income (expense) Interest income increased from $3.0 million in 2008 to $4.7 million in 2009. The increase is due to cash received on our surplus cash flow notes receivable from Unified Housing Foundation, an affiliated entity. This entity is required to pay on the notes when they generate surplus cash flow, thus interest income is recorded when payments received. Mortgage and loan interest decreased in 2009 due to a decrease in the interest rate on the Travelers land mortgage. Discontinued operations Our discontinued operations for 2009 consist of two commercial properties sold. In 2008, discontinued operations consist of the two commercial properties sold in 2009 and seven apartment complexes sold in 2008. The office building and shopping center, 2010 Valley View and Parkway Centre, were sold in October 2009. Six of the apartment complexes; Brighton Court, Del Mar, Enclave, Meridian, Signature Place, and Sinclair Place, which are known as the Midland/Odessa properties, were sold in January 2008. One of the apartments, Falcon Point, was reclassified to discontinued operations in May 2008 due to the condemnation of the property as a result of tornado damage and managements subsequent decision to sell the property. The property was sold As-Is in November 2008. The statements of operations for all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the reclassification to discontinued operations. Included in discontinued operations for 2008 is a gain of $29.8 million, net of non-controlling interest, on the sale of the Midland/Odessa properties. The results of operations from these properties are shown below (dollars in thousands): For Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Revenue Rental $ 964 $ 1,963 Property operations 354 1,725 610 238 Expenses Interest (448 ) (2,900 ) General and administration (11 ) (885 ) Depreciation (146 ) (194 ) (605 ) (3,979 ) Net income (loss) from discontinued operations before gains on sale of real estate, taxes and fees 5 (3,741 ) Gain on sale of discontinued operations 29,750 Net income/sales fee to affiliate (4,512 ) Net income from discontinued operations, before tax 5 21,497 Income tax expense (2 ) (7,524 ) Net income from discontinued operations $ 3 $ 13,973 Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are: fund normal recurring expenses; 21 Table of Contents meet debt service and principal repayment obligations including balloon payments on maturing debt; fund capital expenditures; and fund possible property acquisitions. Our principal sources of cash have been and will continue to be: property operations; proceeds from land and income-producing property sales; collection of mortgage notes receivable; collections of receivables from affiliated companies; refinancing of existing mortgage notes payable; and additional borrowings, including mortgage notes payable, and lines of credit. It is important to realize that the current status of the banking industry has had a significant effect on our industry. The banks willingness and/or ability to originate loans affects our ability to buy and sell property, and refinance existing debt. We are unable to foresee the extent and length of this down-turn. A continued and extended decline could materially impact our cash flows. We draw on multiple financing sources to fund our long-term capital needs. We may also issue additional equity securities, including common stock. Management anticipates that our cash as of December 31, 2010, along with cash that will be generated in 2011 from property operations, may not be sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements. Management intends to selectively sell land and income producing assets, refinance or extend real estate debt and seek additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet its liquidity requirements. Although history cannot predict the future, historically, we have been successful at refinancing and extending a portion of the Companys current maturity obligations Financial Position The following impacted our balance sheet as of December 31, 2010: Our real estate increased by $58,000 for the costs associated with the demolition of a portion of the warehouse space. The demolition of this building added value to the vacant land located adjacent to the building. The Notes and interest payable balance decreased due to amortization payments made on the recurring property loans. Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as presented in Part I,