ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the captions Business, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed; and the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including those described under the Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, including Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the SEC, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise. Overview Our primary business is in real estate holdings and investment in mortgage receivables. Land held for development or sale is our sole operating segment. At December 31, 2014, our land consisted of 184.7 acres of land held for future development or sale. All of our land holdings are located in Texas. The principal source of revenue for the Company is interest income on over $25.4 million of note receivables due from related parties. Effective since April 30, 2011, Pillar is the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager under a contractual arrangement that is reviewed annually by our Board of Directors. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending real estate and real estate-related investment opportunities. Pillar also arranges, for TCIs benefit, debt and equity financing with third party lenders and investors. Pillar also serves as an Advisor and Cash Manager to ARL and IOT. As the contractual Advisor, Pillar is compensated by TCI under an Advisory Agreement that is more fully described in Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The Advisor. TCI has no employees. Employees of Pillar render services to TCI in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement. 11 Effective since January 1, 2011, Regis manages our commercial properties and provides brokerage services. Regis is entitled to receive a fee for its property management and brokerage services. See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Property Management and Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Real Estate Brokerage We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Critical Accounting Policies We present our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) completed its accounting guidance codification project. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) became effective for the Companys financial statements issued subsequent to June 30, 2009 and is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, we no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating its accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, we refer to the ASC Codification as the sole source of authoritative literature. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby we have determined that we are a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meet certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders as a group lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. As of December 31, 2014, IOT is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE. For entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where it is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Companys share of the net earnings or losses of these entities is included in consolidated net income. IOTs investment in Eton Square was accounted for under the equity method. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. Based on our acquisitions to date, our allocation to customer relationship intangible assets has been immaterial. 12 We record acquired above-market and below-market leases at their fair values (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) equal to the difference between (1) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (2) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses. Sales to our parent, TCI, have previously been reflected at the fair value sales price. Upon discussion with the SEC and in review of the guidance pursuant to ASC 250-10-45-22 to 24, we have adjusted those asset sales, in the previous years, to reflect a sales price equal to the cost basis in the asset at the time of the sale. The related party payables from TCI were reduced for the lower asset price. Depreciation and Impairment Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. If we determine that impairment has occurred, the affected assets must be reduced to their face value. ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant and Equipment requires that qualifying assets and liabilities and the results of operations that have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented if the property operations are expected to be eliminated and the Company will not have significant continuing involvement following the sale. The components of the propertys net income that is reflected as discontinued operations include the net gain (or loss) upon the disposition of the property held for sale, operating results, depreciation and interest expense (if the property is subject to a secured loan). We generally consider assets to be held for sale when the transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and there are no known significant contingencies relating to the sale, such that the property sale within one year is considered probable. Following the classification of a property as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded on the assets. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 Interest - Capitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real EstateGeneral. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy upon the receipt of certificates of occupancy, but no later than one year from cessation of major construction activity. We cease capitalization on the portion (1) substantially completed and (2) occupied or held available for occupancy, and we capitalize only those costs associated with the portion under construction. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable. Included in discontinued operations, in accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, we recognize rental revenue of acquired in-place above- and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. 13 Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and accounts for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. Non-performing Notes Receivable The Company considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest recognition on Notes Receivable We record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 3 Notes and Interest Receivable from Related Parties for details on our notes receivable. Fair Value Measurement The Company applies the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Management reviews the carrying values of our properties and mortgage notes receivable at least annually and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicates that impairment may exist. Impairment is considered to exist if the future cash flow from a property (undiscounted and without interest) is less than the carrying amount of the property. The property review generally includes: (1) selective property inspections; (2) a review of the propertys current rents compared to market rents; (3) a review of the propertys expenses; (4) a review of maintenance requirements; (5) a review of the propertys cash flow; (6) discussions with the manager of the property; and (7) a review of properties in the surrounding area. For notes receivable, impairment is considered to exist if it is probable that all amounts due under the terms of the note will not be collected. The note receivable review includes an evaluation of the collateral property securing such note. If impairment is found to exist, a provision for loss is recorded by a charge against earnings. Related parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. 14 Contractual Obligations We have contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regards to the payment of mortgages. The following table aggregates our expected contractual obligations and commitments and includes items not accrued, per GAAP, through the term of the obligation such as interest expense. Our aggregate obligations subsequent to December 31, 2014 are shown in the table below (dollars in thousands): Total 2015 2016 2017-2019 Thereafter Long-term debt obligation $ 11,348 $ 1,640 $ 9,705 $ 3 $ - Capital lease obligation - - - - - Operating lease obligation - - - - - Purchase obligation - - - - - Other long-term debt liabilities reflected on the - - - - - Registrant's Balance Sheet under GAAP Total $ 11,348 $ 1,640 $ 9,705 $ 3 $ - Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 from Part II,