Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2022 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 30, 2022, and (2) the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included under Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to February 1, resulting in a 52-week or 53-week fiscal year. Our two most recent fiscal years ended on January 29, 2022 and January 30, 2021, each of which consisted of 52 weeks. Overview Samsara is on a mission to increase the safety, efficiency and sustainability of the operations that power the global economy. To realize this vision, we pioneered the Connected Operations Cloud, which allows businesses that depend on physical operations to harness Internet of Things (IoT) data to develop actionable business insights and improve their operations. Our Connected Operations Cloud consolidates data from our IoT devices and a growing ecosystem of connected assets and third-party systems, and makes it easy for organizations to access, analyze and act on data insights, using our cloud dashboard, custom alerts and reports, mobile apps and workflows. Our differentiated, purpose-built suite of solutions enables organizations to embrace and deploy a digital, cloud-connected strategy across their operations. With Samsara, customers have the ability to drive safer operations, increase business efficiency, and achieve their sustainability goals, all to improve the lives of their employees and the customers they serve. We were founded in 2015 and have achieved significant growth since our inception. For our three months ended April 30, 2022 and May 1, 2021, our revenue was $142.6 million and $87.7 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 63%. Our net loss was $71.0 million and $38.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and May 1, 2021, respectively. Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of our customer relationships and we continue to make significant investments in order to grow our customer base. We estimate that for the last three fiscal years, the calculated lifetime value of our customers has exceeded eight times the associated cost of acquiring them. Key Business Metrics The following table shows a summary of our key business metrics as of the periods presented (dollars in thousands): As of April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Annual recurring revenue (ARR) $ 607,236 $ 382,102 Customers > $100,000 ARR 897 518 ARR We believe that ARR is a key indicator of the trajectory of our business performance, enables measurement of the progress of our business initiatives, and serves as an indicator of future growth. We define ARR as the annualized value of subscription contracts that have commenced revenue recognition as of the measurement date. ARR highlights trends that may be less visible from the face of our financial statements due to ratable revenue recognition. ARR does not have a standardized meaning and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace it. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the date used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed. 21 Table of Contents Number of Customers Over $100,000 in ARR We focus on customers representing over $100,000 in ARR, as this key business metric is indicative of our penetration within larger customers. The number of our customers over $100,000 in ARR has grown over time as we have focused our sales efforts on larger customers, invested in our partner ecosystem and released more Applications to address the needs of our larger customers. Factors Affecting Our Performance Acquiring New Customers We believe that we have a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. We intend to drive new customer acquisition by continuing to invest significantly in sales and marketing to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, and drive adoption of our Connected Operations Cloud. Our ability to attract new customers depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, as well as the success of our efforts to expand internationally. Expanding Within Our Existing Customer Base We believe that there is a significant opportunity to expand sales to existing customers following a customers initial adoption of our Connected Operations Cloud. We expand within our customer base by selling more Applications and expanding existing Applications across geographies and divisions. Our ability to expand within our customer base will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction, pricing, competition, and changes in our customers spending levels. We focus on maximizing the lifetime value of our customer relationships, and we continue to make significant investments in order to grow our customer base. Due to our subscription model, we recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. As a result, the profitability of a customer to our business in any particular period depends in part upon how long a customer has been a subscriber to our Connected Operations Cloud. In general, the associated upfront costs with respect to new customers are higher in the first year than the aggregate revenues we recognize from those new customers in the first year. We believe that, over time, as our customer base grows and a relatively higher percentage of our subscription revenues are attributable to renewals versus new customers or upsells to existing customers, associated sales and marketing expenses and other allocated upfront costs as a percentage of revenues will decrease, subject to investments we plan to make in our business. Over the lifetime of the customer relationship, we also incur sales and marketing costs to manage the account, renew or upsell the customer to more subscriptions. However, in general, these costs are significantly less than the costs initially incurred to acquire the customer. Investments in Innovation and Future Growth Our performance is driven by continuous innovation on our Connected Operations Cloud and our ability to scale our headcount to grow our business. We continuously invest to add new data types to our Connected Operations Cloud and innovate with this growing data asset to introduce new Applications over time. Our performance is also impacted by our ability to scale our headcount across our business to support our growth. We remain committed to investing in our sales capacity and our research and development organization, and to driving revenue growth globally. COVID-19 Pandemic In December 2019, a disease stemming from a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) was reported in China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared it a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is impacting worldwide economic activity and financial markets and significantly increasing economic volatility and uncertainty. For instance, several local, state, and federal governments in the U.S. and globally have been prompted to take unprecedented steps including, but not limited to, travel restrictions, closure of businesses, social distancing requirements, and quarantines. The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic uncertainty, including disruptions of the supply chain globally and labor shortages, which may adversely impact us directly or indirectly as a result of the effects on our customers and vendors. We have taken precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we operate. These measures previously included a suspension of all non-essential travel and the temporary closure of all of our major offices to non-essential employees, among other measures. We have since begun to reopen our offices, have resumed employee travel, and have transitioned to a flexible workplace model. 22 Table of Contents While the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, it has already had an adverse effect on the global economy and the ultimate societal and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic remains unknown. In particular, the conditions caused by this pandemic may affect the rate of global information technology spending and could adversely affect our business during future periods by lengthening our sales cycles, reducing customer spending, negatively impacting collections of accounts receivable, causing some of our customers to go out of business, and limiting the ability of our direct sales force to travel to existing and potential customers sites. Refer to the section titled Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We provide access to our Connected Operations Cloud through subscription arrangements, whereby the customer is charged a per-subscription fee for access for a specified term. Subscription agreements contain multiple service elements for one or more of our cloud-based Applications via mobile app(s) or a website that enable data collection and provide access to the cellular network, IoT devices (which we also refer to as connected devices) and support services delivered over the term of the arrangement. Our subscription contracts are typically for a three-to-five-year term and are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. Our Connected Operations Cloud and IoT devices are highly interdependent and interrelated, and represent a combined performance obligation within the context of the contract. In each of our past three fiscal years, we generated approximately 98% of our revenue from subscriptions to our Connected Operations Cloud. The small remaining portion of our revenue not generated from subscriptions to our Connected Operations Cloud comes from the sale of replacement IoT devices, including gateways, sensors and cameras, as well as related shipping and handling fees, and professional services. Allocation of Overhead Costs Overhead costs that are not substantially dedicated to use by a specific functional group are allocated based on headcount. Such costs include costs associated with office facilities, depreciation of property and equipment, and other expenses, such as corporate software and subscription services, insurance, and commuter benefits. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of the amortization of IoT device costs associated with subscription agreements, cellular-related costs, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, customer support costs, warranty charges, and operational costs consisting of employee-related costs, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, amortization of internal-use software development costs, expenses related to shipping and handling, packaging, fulfillment, warehousing, write-downs of excess and obsolete inventory, and allocated overhead costs. As our customers expand and increase the use of our Connected Operations Cloud driven by increased IoT devices and additional Applications, we expect our cost of revenue to remain relatively flat from year to year and may also vary from quarter to quarter as a percentage of our revenue due to the timing and extent of these expenses. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our Connected Operations Cloud and customer support and operations personnel as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas will affect our cost of revenue in the future. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development costs consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, depreciation and other expenses related to prototyping IoT devices, product initiatives, software subscriptions, hosting used in research and development, and allocated overhead costs. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products and enhancing the utility of our Connected Operations Cloud. We capitalize the portion of our internal-use software development costs that meets the criteria for capitalization. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance our Connected Operations Cloud. While we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. 23 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing activities, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, media, marketing, promotional costs, free trial expenses, brand awareness activities, business development, corporate partnerships, travel, conferences and events, outside services, and allocated overhead costs. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our customer base and increase our brand awareness. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future. While we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for executive, finance, legal, human resources, IT, and facilities personnel, including salaries, employee benefits and stock-based compensation, professional fees for external legal, accounting, recruiting and other consulting services, bad debt, allocated overhead costs, and unallocated lease costs associated with unused office facilities. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future to support our growth as well as due to additional costs associated with legal, accounting, compliance, insurance, investor relations, and other costs as we become a public company. While we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Lease Modification, Impairment, and Related Charges Lease modification, impairment, and related charges consist of impairment charges related to the sublease and abandonment of facilities. We may incur additional lease modification, impairment, and related charges in subsequent periods. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net consists primarily of income earned on our money market funds included in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, as well as foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As we have expanded our global operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, and we expect this to continue. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 and May 1, 2021 Revenue Our total revenue is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Revenue $ 142,645 $ 87,731 $ 54,914 63 % Revenue increased by $54.9 million, or 63%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily due to an increase in customer count and increased purchases by existing customers of our subscription offerings. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Our cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Cost of revenue $ 39,618 $ 25,629 $ 13,989 55 % Gross profit $ 103,027 $ 62,102 Gross margin 72 % 71 % Cost of revenue increased by $14.0 million, or 55%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily due to increased product costs of $14.4 million, which were mainly due to $6.2 million of increased amortization of deferred IoT device costs and $4.0 million of increased direct labor costs, of which $1.7 million was an increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in cost of revenue was also driven by increased infrastructure costs of $3.8 million associated with our product offerings. Our gross margin increased to 72% for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to 71% for the three months ended May 1, 2021, mainly due to operational efficiencies. Research and Development Research and development expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Research and development $ 40,985 $ 23,530 $ 17,455 74 % Percentage of revenue 29 % 27 % Research and development expense increased by $17.5 million, or 74%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily due to a $15.9 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $13.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $2.4 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes driven primarily by merit increases and hiring to support our research and development organization. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 87,449 $ 52,286 $ 35,163 67 % Percentage of revenue 61 % 60 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $35.2 million, or 67%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily due to a $27.7 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $14.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, a $11.9 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes primarily due to the timing of hiring to support our sales organization, and a $1.4 million increase in sales commissions. Our increase in sales and marketing expense was also driven by a $2.5 million increase in travel-related expenses and expenses relating to our conference and events, a $1.5 million increase in expenses relating to outside services, a $1.2 million increase in expenses relating to lead generation, and a $1.1 million increase in allocated overhead costs primarily due to headcount growth. 25 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expense is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % General and administrative $ 43,742 $ 24,884 $ 18,858 76 % Percentage of revenue 30 % 28 % General and administrative expense increased by $18.9 million, or 76%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily due to a $16.0 million increase in employee-related costs, which included a $12.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $3.4 million increase in salaries and benefits and related employer taxes primarily driven by an increase in headcount to support the growth of our finance, accounting, human resources, IT, and legal functions. Our increase in general and administrative expense was also driven by a $1.8 million increase in costs related to being a public company and a $1.5 million increase in litigation-related costs. Lease Modification, Impairment, and Related Charges Lease modification, impairment, and related charges are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Lease modification, impairment, and related charges $ 1,056 $ $ 1,056 * __________ * Not meaningful Lease modification, impairment, and related charges increased by $1.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021. In the first fiscal quarter of 2023, we executed a sublease for certain office space which resulted in a $1.1 million impairment to the related right-of-use asset which we recognized in lease modification, impairment, and related charges. We did not incur any lease modification, impairment, and related charges in the three months ended May 1, 2021. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, are summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Interest income and other income (expense), net $ (60) $ 160 $ (220) (138 %) Interest income and other income (expense), net, decreased by $0.2 million, or 138%, for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to higher foreign currency remeasurement losses, partially offset by an increase in interest income due to higher interest-bearing cash balances in the three months ended April 30, 2022. 26 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes is summarized as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Change April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Amount % Provision for income taxes $ 723 $ $ 723 * Effective tax rate (1.0 %) 0.0 % __________ * Not meaningful The provision for income taxes increased by $0.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended May 1, 2021, primarily driven by the expansion of our international operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we review the following non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 104,787 $ 62,103 Non-GAAP gross margin 73 % 71 % Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (25,482) $ (37,145) Non-GAAP operating margin (18) % (42) % Non-GAAP net loss $ (26,265) $ (36,985) Adjusted free cash flow $ (50,682) $ (39,964) Adjusted free cash flow margin (36) % (46) % Limitations and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for financial information presented under GAAP. There are a number of limitations related to the use of non-GAAP financial measures versus comparable financial measures determined under GAAP. For example, other companies in our industry may calculate these non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance. In addition, adjusted free cash flow does not reflect our future contractual commitments or the total increase or decrease of our cash balance for a given period. All of these limitations could reduce the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as analytical tools. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and to not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 27 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit plus stock-based compensation expense-related charges, including employer taxes on employee equity transactions, included in cost of revenue. Non-GAAP gross margin is defined as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. We use non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP gross profit to our GAAP gross profit for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Gross profit $ 103,027 $ 62,102 Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges (1) 1,760 1 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 104,787 $ 62,103 Non-GAAP gross margin 73 % 71 % __________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense-related charges included approximately $0.1 million of employer taxes on employee equity transactions for the three months ended April 30, 2022. Non-GAAP Loss from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP loss from operations, or non-GAAP operating loss, as loss from operations plus stock-based compensation expense-related charges, including employer taxes on employee equity transactions, and lease modification, impairment, and related charges. Non-GAAP operating margin is defined as non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of total revenue. We use non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP operating margin in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP loss from operations and non-GAAP operating margin provide our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitate period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP loss from operations to our GAAP loss from operations for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Loss from operations $ (70,205) $ (38,598) Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges (1) 43,667 1,453 Lease modification, impairment, and related charges 1,056 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (25,482) $ (37,145) Non-GAAP operating margin (18) % (42) % __________ (1) Stock-based compensation expense-related charges included approximately $0.1 million of employer taxes on employee equity transactions for the three months ended April 30, 2022. 28 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP net loss as net loss excluding stock-based compensation expense-related charges, including employer taxes on employee equity transactions, and lease modification, impairment, and related charges. We use non-GAAP net loss in conjunction with traditional GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP net loss provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP net loss to our GAAP net loss for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Net loss $ (70,988) $ (38,438) Add: Stock-based compensation expense-related charges, net of applicable taxes 43,667 1,453 Lease modification, impairment, and related charges, net of applicable taxes 1,056 Non-GAAP net loss $ (26,265) $ (36,985) Adjusted Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Free Cash Flow Margin We define adjusted free cash flow as net cash used in operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment, plus non-recurring capital expenditures associated with the build-out of our corporate office facilities in San Francisco, which we expect to be completed in fiscal year 2023, net of tenant allowances. Adjusted free cash flow margin is calculated as adjusted free cash flow as a percentage of total revenue. We believe that adjusted free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow margin, even if negative, are useful in evaluating liquidity and provide information to management and investors about our ability to fund future operating needs and strategic initiatives. The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (48,782) $ (37,070) Purchase of property and equipment (10,668) (3,508) Purchase of property and equipment for build-out of corporate office facilities 8,768 614 Adjusted free cash flow $ (50,682) $ (39,964) Adjusted free cash flow margin (36) % (46) % Net cash used in investing activities $ (10,668) $ (3,508) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,734) $ 270 Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of our ability to access sufficient cash flows to meet the short-term and long-term cash requirements of our business operations. Since our founding, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities and payments received from our customers. In December 2021, we completed our initial public offering (IPO), which resulted in aggregate net proceeds of $846.7 million, including proceeds from the underwriters exercise of their option to purchase additional shares of our Class A common stock in January 2022 and net of underwriting discounts and commissions. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $991.9 million as of April 30, 2022. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future due to the investments we intend to make in our business, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute on our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. As of April 30, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents of $859.8 million. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with banks as well as highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less, when purchased. 29 Table of Contents Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth, our ability to attract and retain customers, the continued market acceptance of our solution, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our Connected Operations Cloud, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. Further, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 May 1, 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (48,782) $ (37,070) Net cash used in investing activities $ (10,668) $ (3,508) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (1,734) $ 270 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenses, sales and marketing expenses, inventory and connected device costs, third-party cloud and cellular infrastructure expenses, and overhead expenses. We have generated negative cash flows from operations in each of the past three fiscal years, and have supplemented working capital through net proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Cash used in operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation, non-cash operating lease costs, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Cash used in operating activities was $48.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022. This consisted of a net loss of $71.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $49.1 million, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $26.9 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of stock-based compensation expense of $43.6 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.4 million, bad debt expense of $1.9 million, and lease modification, impairment, and related charges of $1.1 million. Cash used in operating activities was $37.1 million for the three months ended May 1, 2021. This consisted of a net loss of $38.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $6.4 million, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $5.1 million. The non-cash charges were primarily comprised of bad debt expense of $3.2 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.5 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $1.5 million. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $10.7 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and May 1, 2021, respectively, which primarily consisted of capital expenditures for additional office facilities. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $1.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022, which primarily consisted of $1.7 million in payments of offering costs. Cash provided by financing activities was $0.3 million for the three months ended May 1, 2021, which primarily consisted of $0.6 million of proceeds from exercises of stock options, partially offset by $0.3 million in payments of offering costs. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our estimated future obligations consist of leases and non-cancelable purchase commitments as of April 30, 2022. For additional discussion on our leases and other commitments, refer to Notes 7, Leases, and 9, Commitments and Contingencies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. 30 Table of Contents The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended April 30, 2022. JOBS Act Accounting Election We meet the definition of an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), which permits us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, we have elected to use this extended transition period until we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company or until we affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to other public companies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information on recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.