ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of construction and mortgage financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; demand for apartments and commercial properties in the Companys markets and the effect on occupancy and rental rates; the Companys ability to obtain financing, enter into joint venture arrangements in relation to or self-fund the development or acquisition of properties; risks associated with the timing and amount of property sales and the resulting gains/losses associated with such sales; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates, and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; and risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, include among others, the factors listed and described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, which investors should review. There have been no changes from the risk factors previously described in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Other sections of this report may also include suggested factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such matters; nor can we assess the impact of all such matters on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise as we file them with the SEC. 14 Table of Contents Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company that currently owns land held for development or sale. As of June 30, 2010, we owned or had interests in 203.31 acres of land held for future development or sale. Our primary source of revenue is from the interest income on over $36.4 million of notes receivable due from affiliated and/or related parties. Critical Accounting Policies We present our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) completed its accounting guidance codification project. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) became effective for our financial statements issued subsequent to June 30, 2009, and is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, we no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating our accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, we refer to the ASC Codification as the sole source of authoritative literature. The accompanying financial statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby we have determined that we are a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meet certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders, as a group, lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgements related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. For entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, our share of the net earnings or losses of these entities are included in net income. Our investment in TCI Eton Square, LP is accounted for under the equity method. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. Based on our acquisitions to date, our allocation to customer relationship intangible assets has been immaterial. We record acquired above-market and below-market leases at their fair values (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) equal to the difference between (1) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to 15 Table of Contents each in-place lease and (2) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses. Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant and Equipment requires that qualifying assets and liabilities and the results of operations that have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented if the property operations are expected to be eliminated and we will not have significant continuing involvement following the sale. The components of the propertys net income that is reflected as discontinued operations include the net gain (or loss) upon the disposition of the property held for sale, operating results, depreciation and interest expense (if the property is subject to a secured loan). We generally consider assets to be held for sale when the transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and there are no known significant contingencies relating to the sale, such that the property sale within one year is considered probable. Following the classification of a property as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded on the assets. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgement. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 Interest Capitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real Estate General. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy upon the receipt of certificates of occupancy, but no later than one year from cessation of major construction activity. We cease capitalization on the portion (1) substantially completed and (2) occupied or held available for occupancy, and we capitalize only those costs associated with the portion under construction. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable and also include rents received on a storage warehouse. In accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, we recognize rental revenue of acquired in place and above-market and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC Topic 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and account for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. Non-performing Notes Receivable We consider a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 16 Table of Contents Interest Recognition on Notes Receivable For notes other than surplus cash notes, we record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. On cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income is only recognized to the extent that cash is received. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 4 Notes and Interest Receivable Affiliated for details on our Notes Receivable. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Statement of Operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010, as included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements of this report. It is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our current operations consist of land held for future development or sale. There is a warehouse located on one of the land parcels that is used for storage and generates some revenues through the leasing of that storage space. Our operating expenses relate mainly to the administration and maintenance costs associated with the land held for development or sale and storage space. We also have other income and expense items. We receive interest income from the funds deposited with our advisor at a rate of prime plus 1%. We have receivables from our affiliates which also provide interest income. Our other significant expense item is from the mortgage expense which includes interest payments on the debt secured by our land portfolio. Comparison of the three months ended June 30, 2010 to the same period ended 2009 We had a net loss applicable to common shares of ($18,000) or $0.00 per diluted earnings per share for the period ended June 30, 2010, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of ($386,000) or ($0.09) per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2009. Revenues Rental and other property revenues were $65,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $5,000, as compared to the prior period revenues of $70,000, due to a decrease in our rental income received from the leasing of our storage warehouse. 17 Table of Contents Expenses Property operating expenses were $35,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $19,000, as compared to the prior period operating expenses of $54,000. There was an increase in the expenses relating to the storage warehouse of $2,000, a decrease in the Mercer Crossing land portfolio of $15,000 and a decrease in insurance expense from properties sold in 2009. The land portfolio had a decrease in expenses related to advertising and Property Owners Association (POA) fees. General and administrative expenses were $123,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $63,000, as compared to the prior period expenses of $186,000. This decrease was due to the over accrual of 2008 franchise taxes, adjusted in 2009, in the amount of $72,000 offset by $16,500 in accounting fees accrued for the second quarter of 2010, without a similar accrual in the prior period. The remaining decrease was due to decreases in various corporate related expenses. Other income (expense) Interest income was $621,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. This represents an increase of $304,000 as compared to the prior period interest income of $317,000. The increase is due to the receipt of cash on the receivables from Unified Housing Foundation, Inc. in the current period. The notes are excess cash flow notes and interest on the notes is recorded as cash is received. More cash was received in the current period as compared to the prior period. Mortgage loan and interest expense was $330,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $135,000 as compared to the prior period expense of $465,000. The decrease is due to the modification of the Mercer Crossing/Travelers land loan, lowering the interest rate for the interest expenses incurred in the current period. Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees relate to IOTs 10.0% investment in TCI Eton Square, LP. This investment is accounted for under the equity method and recognizes its portion of the current period earnings. Discontinued operations consist of an office building and a shopping center that were sold in 2009. As of June 30, 2010 there were no properties held for sale, sold during the three months ended June 30, 2010 or sold subsequent to that date. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (dollars in thousands): For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 Revenue Rental $ - $ 314 Property operations - 3 - 311 Expenses Interest - (94) General and administration - (1) Depreciation - (49) - (144) Income from discontinued operations - 167 Tax expense - (59) Net income from discontinued operations $ - $ 108 Comparison of the six months ended June 30, 2010 to the same period ended 2009 We had a net income applicable to common shares of $144,000 or $0.03 per diluted earnings per share for the period ended June 30, 2010, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of ($754,000) or ($0.18) per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2009. Revenues Rental and other property revenues were $126,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $13,000, as compared to the prior period revenues of $139,000, due to a decrease in our rental income received from the leasing of our storage warehouse. 18 Table of Contents Expenses Property operating expenses were $87,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $9,000, as compared to the prior period operating expenses of $96,000. There was a decrease in the expenses relating to the storage warehouse of $15,000 but an increase in the Mercer Crossing land portfolio of $14,000. The land portfolio had an increase in expenses related to professional services and POA fees. Corporate had a decrease of $8,000 due to miscellaneous expenses. General and administrative expenses were $179,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This represents an increase of $31,000, as compared to the prior period expenses of $148,000. This increase was due to an accrual of $33,000 for accounting fees without a similar accrual in the prior period, an increase in legal and professional fees of $9,000, offset by $11,000 decreases in various corporate related expenses. Other income (expense) Interest income was $1.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This represents an increase of $579,000 as compared to the prior period interest income of $751,000. The increase is due to the receipt of cash on the receivables from Unified Housing Foundation, Inc. in the current period. The notes are excess cash flow notes and interest on the notes is recorded as cash is received. More cash was received in the current period as compared to the prior period. Mortgage loan and interest expense was $663,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This represents a decrease of $437,000 as compared to the prior period expense of $1.1 million. The decrease is due to the modification of the Mercer Crossing/Travelers land loan, lowering the interest rate for the interest expenses incurred in the current period. Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees relate to IOTs 10.0% investment in TCI Eton Square, LP. This investment is accounted for under the equity method and recognizes its portion of the current period earnings. Discontinued operations consist of an office building and a shopping center that were sold in 2009. As of June 30, 2010, there were no properties held for sale, sold during the six months ended June 30, 2010 or sold subsequent to that date. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (dollars in thousands): For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 Revenue Rental $ - $ 634 Property operations - 170 - 464 Expenses Interest - (185) General and administration - (9) Depreciation - (96) - (290) Income from discontinued operations - 174 Tax expense - (61) Net income from discontinued operations $ - $ 113 Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are: meet debt service requirements including balloon payments; fund normal recurring expenses; fund capital expenditures; and fund new property acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents Our primary source of cash is from rents, collection on receivables, sale of assets, and the refinancing of existing mortgages. We will refinance debt obligations as they become due and generate cash from interest payments on notes receivable, storage rents and sale of properties. However, if refinancing and excess cash from operations does not prove to be sufficient to satisfy all our obligations as they mature, we may sell real estate, refinance real estate, and incur additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet our cash requirements. Cash flow summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Statement of Cash Flows from Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and is not meant to be an all inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows (dollars in thousands): June 30, 2010 2009 Variance Net cash used in operating activities $ (413) $ (2,259) $ 1,846 Net cash provided by investing activities $ 643 $ 2,552 $ (1,909) Net cash used in financing activities $ (229) $ (262) $ 33 The variance in the operating cash is primarily due the additional cash used for both continued and discontinued operations in the prior period. In the prior period, we had two income producing properties, and there were non-continuing costs incurred prior to the sale of the properties. The variance in investing cash is due to a change in the amount of cash withdrawn that was previously invested with our advisor. In the prior period, we had withdrawn additional amounts of cash previously invested with our advisor. The variance in financing cash was due to a decrease in the amount of current period recurring principal payments relating to the sale of two commercial properties in October 2009. We did not pay quarterly dividends in 2010 or 2009. Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials. Management is not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Inflation The effects of inflation on our operations are not quantifiable. Revenues from apartment operations tend to fluctuate proportionately with inflationary increases and decreases in housing costs. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation also affect the sales value of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates, earnings from short-term investments and the cost of new financings, as well as the cost of variable interest rate debt, will be affected. Tax Matters Financial statement income varies from taxable income principally due to the accounting for income and losses of investees, gains and losses from asset sales, depreciation on owned properties, amortization of discounts on notes receivable and payable and the difference in the allowance for estimated losses. IOT has alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards available for 2010 and has a loss for federal income tax purposes after consolidation in the ARL group for the first six months of 2010; therefore, it recorded no provision for income taxes. At June 30, 2010, IOT had a net deferred tax asset of approximately $2.3 million due to tax deductions available to it in future years. However, as management cannot determine that it is more likely than not that IOT will realize the benefit of the deferred tax asset, a 100% valuation allowance has been established. 20 Table of Contents