Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Certain of the Companys accounting policies require the application of judgment in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments and estimates are based upon the Companys historical experience, current trends and information available from other sources that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Page 9 The Companys significant accounting policies are summarized in Note B to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report on Form 10-K. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are more significant to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revisions in such estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revisions become known. Oil and Gas Property Accounting The Company uses the full cost method of accounting for its investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under this method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties (including such costs as leasehold acquisition costs, geological expenditures, dry hole costs, tangible and intangible development costs and direct internal costs) are capitalized as the cost of oil and natural gas properties when incurred. The full cost method requires the Company to calculate quarterly, by cost center, a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. To the extent capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties, less accumulated depletion and related deferred taxes exceed the sum of the discounted future net revenues of proved oil and natural gas reserves, the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties subject to amortization, the cost of properties not being amortized, and the related tax amounts, such excess capitalized costs are charged to expense. Beginning December 31, 2009, full cost companies use the unweighted arithmetic average first day of the month price for oil and natural gas for the 12-month period preceding the calculation date to calculate the future net revenues of proved reserves. Prior to December 31, 2009, companies used the price in effect at the calculation date and had the option, under certain circumstances, to elect to use subsequent commodity prices if they increased after the calculation date. The Company assesses any unproved oil and gas properties on an annual basis for possible impairment or reduction in value. The Company assesses properties on an individual basis or as a group if properties are individually insignificant. The assessment includes consideration of the following factors, among others: intent to drill; remaining lease term; geological and geophysical evaluations; drilling results and activity; the assignment of proved reserves; and the economic viability of development if proved reserves are assigned. During any period in which these factors indicate an impairment of unproved properties not subject to amortization, the associated costs incurred to date for such properties are then included in unproved properties subject to amortization. Oil and Gas Reserves Our proved oil and gas reserves are estimated by independent petroleum engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process that is dependent upon the quality of available data and the interpretation thereof, including evaluations and extrapolations of well flow rates and reservoir pressure. Estimates by different engineers often vary, sometimes significantly. In addition, physical factors such as the results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate, as well as economic factors such as changes in product prices, may justify revision of such estimates. Because proved reserves are required to be estimated using prices at the date of the evaluation, estimated reserve quantities can be significantly impacted by changes in product prices. Depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) of producing properties is computed on the unit-of-production method based on estimated proved oil and gas reserves. While total DD&A expense for the life of a property is limited to the propertys total cost, proved reserve revisions result in a change in timing of when DD&A expense is recognized. Downward revisions of proved reserves result in an acceleration of DD&A expense, while upward revisions tend to lower the rate of DD&A expense recognition. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes in such cash flows are prepared using assumptions required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such assumptions include using year-end oil and gas prices and year-end costs for estimated future development and production expenditures. Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using a 10% rate. Changes in any of these assumptions could have a significant impact on the standardized measure. Accordingly, the standardized measure does not represent managements estimated current market value of proved reserves. Page 10 Doubtful Accounts The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts receivable and notes receivable is based on an analysis of the risk of loss on specific accounts. The analysis places particular emphasis on past due accounts. Management considers such information as the nature and age of the receivable, the payment history of the tenant, customer or other debtor and the financial condition of the tenant or other debtor. Managements estimate of the required allowance, which is reviewed on a quarterly basis, is subject to revision as these factors change. Deferred Tax Assets Significant management judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets. The future recoverability of the Companys net deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income prior to the expiration of the loss carry forwards. At March 31, 2011, the Company had a deferred tax asset due to tax deductions available to it in future years. However, as management could not determine that it was more likely than not that the benefit of the deferred tax asset would be realized, a 100% valuation allowance was established. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2011, the Company had current assets of $257,000 and current liabilities of $236,000. Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2011 were $32,000 as compared to $59,000 at December 31, 2010. Net cash provided by operating activities was $83,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011. During the six-month period, the Company had net income of $163,000. Net cash used in investing activities was $109,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011, consisting of the purchase of equipment and other drilling costs at the Companys oil and gas production facility. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011, consisting of repayment of loans to an affiliated entity. Results of Operations The Company reported a net gain of $66,000 and a gain of $163,000 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to a net loss of $275,000 and a loss of $315,000 for the comparable periods of 2010. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recorded oil and gas revenues of $280,000 and $560,000 as compared to $331,000 and $601,000 for the comparable period of 2010. The changes in oil & gas revenue was due changes in the price of oil and gas in the marketplace. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recorded revenues of $733,000 and $1,462,000 from its retirement property compared to $751,000 and $1,454,000 for the comparable periods in 2010. The variances between comparable periods is due to occupancy fluctuations. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company recorded oil and gas operating expenses of $365,000 and $700,000 as compared to $316,000 and $672,000 for the comparable period of 2010. The increase was due to an increase in drilling and related expenses. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, operating expenses and lease expense at the retirement property were $514,000 and $1,095,000 as compared to $602,000 and $1,095,000 for the comparable periods in 2010. Page 11 For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, corporate general & administrative expenses were $126,000 and $250,000 as compared to $124,000 and $323,000 for the comparable periods in 2010. The decrease is primarily due to decreased payroll costs. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, interest income was $120,000 and $239,000 as compared to $114,000 and $253,000 for the comparable periods in 2010. The decrease is due to an overall reduction in the receivable on which interest is computed over the comparable periods. Forward Looking Statements Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: A number of the matters and subject areas discussed in this filing that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances, operations and prospects. The discussion of such matters and subject areas is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and also may materially differ from the Companys actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters and subject areas relating to interest rate fluctuations, the ability to obtain adequate debt and equity financing, demand, pricing, competition, construction, licensing, permitting, construction delays on new developments, contractual and licensure, and other delays on the disposition, transition, or restructuring of currently or previously owned, leased or managed properties in the Companys portfolio, and the ability of the Company to continue managing its costs and cash flow while maintaining high occupancy rates and market rate charges in its retirement community. The Company has attempted to identify, in context, certain of the factors that it currently believes may cause actual future experience and results to differ from the Companys current expectations regarding the relevant matter of subject area. These and other risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Companys Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Inflation The Companys principal source of revenue is rents from a retirement community and fees for services rendered. The real estate operation is affected by rental rates that are highly dependent upon market conditions and the competitive environment in the areas where the property is located. Compensation to employees and maintenance are the principal cost elements relative to the operation of this property. Although the Company has not historically experienced any adverse effects of inflation on salaries or other operating expenses, there can be no assurance that such trends will continue or that, should inflationary pressures arise, the Company will be able to offset such costs by increasing rental rates in its real estate operation. Environmental Matters The Company has conducted environmental assessments on most of its existing owned or leased properties. These assessments have not revealed any environmental liability that the Company believes would have a material adverse affect on the Companys business, assets or results of operations. The Company is not aware of any such environmental liability. The Company believes that all of its properties are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. The Company has not been notified by any governmental authority and is not otherwise aware of any material non-compliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of its communities.