ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of construction and mortgage financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; demand for apartments and commercial properties in the Companys markets and the effect on occupancy and rental rates; the Companys ability to obtain financing, enter into joint venture arrangements in relation to or self-fund the development or acquisition of properties; risks associated with the timing and amount of property sales and the resulting gains/losses associated with such sales; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates, and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; and 12 risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, include among others, the factors listed and described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, which investors should review. There have been no changes from the risk factors previously described in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business and our property portfolio. While we did not incur significant disruptions during the six months ended June 30, 2020 from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to predict the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties. These uncertainties include the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, among others. The pandemic is having a significant impact on the U.S. economy and on the local markets in which our properties are located. Nearly every industry has been impacted directly or indirectly, and the commercial real estate market has come under pressure due to numerous factors, including preventative measures taken by local, state and federal authorities to alleviate the public health crisis such as mandatory business closures, quarantines, and restrictions on travel and shelter-in-place or stay-at-home orders. The future impact of COVID-19 on our business and financial activities will depend on future developments, which at this stage are unpredictable considering the fluctuations of COVID-19 outbreaks and the resulting changes in the market. Other sections of this report may also include suggested factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such matters; nor can we assess the impact of all such matters on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise as we file them with the SEC. Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company. We have no employees. As of June 30, 2020, our primary source of revenue is from the interest income on $92.1 million of receivables (out of which $13.1 million represents notes receivable) due from related parties. We have historically engaged in, and may continue to engage in, certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Pillar is the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager. Although the Board of Directors is directly responsible for managing the affairs of IOR, and for setting the policies which guide it, the day-to-day operations of IOR are performed by Pillar, as the contractual Advisor, under the supervision of the Board. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending real estate and real estate-related investment opportunities and arranging debt and equity financing for the Company with third party lenders and investors. Additionally, Pillar serves as a consultant to the Board with regard to their decisions in connection with IORs business plan and investment policy. Pillar also serves as an Advisor and Cash Manager to TCI and ARL. 13 Critical Accounting Policies We present our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. As of June 30, 2020, IOR is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The Company does not have any entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where it is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 Interest Capitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real Estate General. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We cease capitalization when a building is considered substantially complete and ready for its intended use, but no later than one year from the cessation of major construction activity. Depreciation and Impairment Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. 14 Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable recorded in accordance with the terms of the notes. Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC Topic 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and account for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. Non-Performing Notes Receivable We consider a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 3 Notes and Interest Receivable from Related Parties for details on our notes receivable. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Related Parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. 15 Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements On April 10, 2020, the FASB issued a Staff Q&A (Q&A) related to the application of the lease guidance in ASC 842 for the accounting impact of lease concessions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Q&A, allows an entity to make an election to account for lease concessions related to the effects of the COVID-19 as though enforceable rights and obligations for those concessions existed. As a result of this election, an entity will not have to analyze each lease to determine whether enforceable rights and obligations for concessions exist in the lease and can elect to apply or not apply the lease modification guidance in ASC 842, as long as the concessions do not result in a substantial increase in the rights of the lessor or the obligations of the lessee. Our election of the guidance of the Q&A has not had a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements during the six months ended June 30, 2020. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Statement of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019, as included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements of this report. It is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our primary business is investing in real estate and financing real estate and real estate-related activities through investments in mortgage loans. As of June 30, 2020, we had no real estate holdings and our principal source of revenue is interest income generated from notes receivables due from related parties. We also receive interest income from the funds deposited with our Advisor at a rate of prime plus 1%. Our operating expenses consist mainly of general and administration costs related to the Company. Comparison of the three months ended June 30, 2020 to the same period ended 2019: We had net income of $1.3 million or $0.30 per diluted share for the three months ended June 30, 2020, compared to net income of $1.1 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the same period ended 2019. Expenses General and administrative expenses were $128 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2020. This represents a decrease of $47 thousand, compared to general and administrative expenses of $175 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2019. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in legal fees of approximately $15 thousand and audit fees of $21 thousand, and a decrease in cost reimbursements to our Advisor of approximately $11 thousand. Advisory fees were $191 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $183 thousand for the same period in 2019 for an increase of $8 thousand. Advisory fees are computed based on a gross asset fee of 0.0625% per month (0.75% per annum) of the average of the gross asset value. Net income fee to related party was $112 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2020. This represents an increase of $22 thousand, compared to the net income fee of $90 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The net income fee paid to our Advisor is calculated at 7.5% of net income. Other income (expense) Interest income decreased to $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $1.7 million for the same period in 2019. The decrease of $400 thousand was primarily due to a decrease in the prime interest rate used to calculate interest on the receivable amount owed from our Advisor and other related parties. Other income of $742 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2020, represents a tax increment reimbursement from the City of Farmers Branch, Texas for previous infrastructure development performed by the Company. 16 Comparison of the six months ended June 30, 2020 to the same period ended 2019: We had net income of $2.1 million or $0.51 earnings per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to net income of $2.0 million or $0.49 earnings per diluted share for the same period in 2019. Expenses General and administrative expenses were $267 thousand for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $308 thousand for the prior period for a decrease of $41 thousand. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in audit fees and cost reimbursements to our Advisor of approximately $11 thousand and $27 thousand. Advisory fees were $380 thousand for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $364 thousand for the same period of 2019 for a decrease of $16 thousand. Advisory fees are computed based on a gross asset fee of 0.0625% per month (0.75% per annum) of the average of the gross asset value. Net income fee to related party increased by $8 thousand to $198 thousand for the six months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $190 thousand for the same period in 2019. The net income fee paid to our Advisor is calculated at 7.5% of net income. Other income (expense) Interest income was $2.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. This represents a decrease of $550 thousand as compared to interest income of $3.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, as a result of a decrease in the prime interest rate used to calculate interest on the receivable amount owed from our Advisor and other related parties. Other income of $742 thousand for the six months ended June 30, 2020, represents a tax increment reimbursement from the City of Farmers Branch, Texas for previous infrastructure development performed by the Company. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are to fund normal recurring expenses, and property acquisitions. And our principal sources of cash are and will continue to be the collection of mortgage notes receivables, and the collections of receivables and interests from related companies. Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows (dollars in thousands): For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 Variance (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,110 $ 2,077 $ 33 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,071 ) $ (2,074 ) $ 3 The primary use of cash for operations is daily operating costs, general and administrative expenses, advisory fees, and land holding costs. Our primary source of cash for operations is from interest income on notes receivable. Our primary cash outlays for investing activities are for investment of excess cash with our Advisor. The investing activity in the current period was mainly due to the proceeds received on the notes receivable. We invested more cash with our Advisor in the current period. We did not pay quarterly dividends during the six months ended June 30, 2020 and 2019. 17 Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials. Management is not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Inflation The effects of inflation on our operations are not quantifiable. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation affect the sales value of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates, earnings from short-term investments and the cost of new financings, as well as the cost of variable interest rate debt, will be affected. Tax Matters IOR is a member of the May Realty Holdings, Inc., (MRHI) consolidated group for federal income tax reporting. There is a tax sharing and compensating agreement between American Realty Investors, Inc. (ARL), Transcontinental Realty Investors, Inc. (TCI), and IOR Financial statement income varies from taxable income principally due to the accounting for income and losses of investees, gains and losses from asset sales, depreciation on owned properties, amortization of discounts on notes receivable and payable and the difference in the allowance for estimated losses. IOR has taxable income for the first six months of 2020 on a standalone basis. The income tax expense for the six months ended June 30, 2020 was $560 thousand.