ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the captions Business, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed; and the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including those described under the Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, including Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk 13 Table of Contents factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the SEC, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise. Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company that currently owns land held for development or sale. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or had interests in 203.3 acres of land held for future development or sale. Our primary source of revenue is from the interest income received on our notes receivable and the rents collected on our commercial properties, and sales of properties. Significant Transactions Significant transactions for the year ended December 31, 2009 include the following: On September 3, 2009, we sold 15.06 acres of Travelers land, located in Farmers Branch, Texas for a sales price of $6.9 million. The property was sold to a related party; therefore the gain of $4.9 million was deferred and will be recorded upon sale to a third party. In October 2009, we sold the 2010 Valley View office building; a 40,666 square foot facility located in Farmers Branch, Texas for a sales price of $3.2 million. We received $1.2 million in cash by way of an intercompany note receivable increase after paying off the existing debt of $2.0 million. The property was sold to a related party; therefore the gain of $0.8 million was deferred and will be recorded upon sale to a third party. We also sold the Parkway Centre retail shopping center; a 28,374 square foot facility located in Dallas, Texas for a sales price of $4.0 million. We received $1.3 million in cash by way of an intercompany note receivable increase after paying off the existing debt of $2.6 million. The property was sold to a related party; therefore the gain of $0.6 million was deferred and will be recorded upon sale to a third party. Our Board of Directors is responsible for managing the affairs of our Company and for setting the policies which guide the Company. The Companys day-to-day operations are managed by Prime. Primes duties include, among other things, locating, investigating, evaluating and recommending real estate, mortgage note investment and sales opportunities, as well as financing and refinancing sources. Prime also serves as consultant in connection with our business plan and investment decisions made by the Board. FASB Accounting Standards Codification The company presents its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) completed its accounting guidance codification project. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) became effective for the Companys financial statements issued subsequent to June 30, 2009 and is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, the company will no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating its accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, the Company will refer to the ASC Codification as the sole source of authoritative literature. 14 Table of Contents Basis of presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meets certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders as a group lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. For entities in which the Company has less than a controlling financial interest or entities where it is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Companys share of the net earnings or losses of these entities is included in consolidated net income. IOTs investment in Eton Square is accounted for under the equity method. Real estate, depreciation, and impairment Real estate assets are stated at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value, if deemed impaired. Major replacements and betterments are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the useful lives of the properties (buildings and improvements 20-40 years; furniture, fixtures and equipment 5-10 years). The Company continually evaluates the recoverability of the carrying value of its real estate assets using the methodology prescribed in ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment, Factors considered by management in evaluating impairment of its existing real estate assets held for investment include significant declines in property operating profits, annually recurring property operating losses and other significant adverse changes in general market conditions that are considered permanent in nature. Under ASC Topic 360, a real estate asset held for investment is not considered impaired if the undiscounted, estimated future cash flows of an asset (both the annual estimated cash flow from future operations and the estimated cash flow from the theoretical sale of the asset) over its estimated holding period are in excess of the assets net book value at the balance sheet date. If any real estate asset held for investment is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its estimated fair value. Real estate held-for-sale The Company periodically classifies real estate assets as held for sale. An asset is classified as held for sale after the approval of the Companys board of directors and after an active program to sell the asset has commenced. Upon the classification of a real estate asset as held for sale, the carrying value of the asset is reduced to the lower of its net book value or its estimated fair value, less costs to sell the asset. Subsequent to the 15 Table of Contents classification of assets as held for sale, no further depreciation expense is recorded. Real estate assets held for sale are stated separately on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon a decision to no longer market as an asset for sale, the asset is classified as an operating asset and depreciation expense is reinstated. The operating results of real estate assets held for sale and sold are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying Statements of Operations. Income from discontinued operations includes the revenues and expenses, including depreciation and interest expense, associated with the assets. This classification of operating results as discontinued operations applies retroactively for all periods presented. Additionally, gains and losses on assets designated as held for sale are classified as part of discontinued operations. Cost Capitalization Costs related to planning, developing, leasing and constructing a property are capitalized and classified as Properties in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company capitalizes interest to qualifying assets under development based on average accumulated expenditures outstanding during the period. In capitalizing interest to qualifying assets, the Company first uses the interest incurred on specific project debt, if any, and next uses the companys weighted average interest rate of non-project specific debt. The company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and certain operating expenses on the unoccupied portion of recently completed properties from the date a project receives its certificate of occupancy to the date on which the project achieves 80% economic occupancy. The company capitalizes leasing costs which include commissions paid to outside brokers, legal costs incurred to negotiate and document a lease agreement and any internal costs that may be applicable. The company allocates these costs to individual tenant leases and amortizes them over the related lease term. Fair value measurement The company applies the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable and also include rents received on a storage warehouse. In accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, the Company recognizes rental revenue of acquired in-place above- and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. 16 Table of Contents Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, the Company defers some or all of the gain recognition and accounts for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. Related Party Transactions The Company has historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in the best interest of our company. Non-performing Notes Receivable The Company considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest recognition on notes receivable For notes other than surplus cash notes, we record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. On cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income is only recognized to the extent cash is received. Allowance for estimated losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 3 for details on our Notes Receivable. Contractual Obligations We have contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regards to the payment of mortgages. The following table aggregates our expected contractual obligations and commitments and includes items not accrued, per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, through the term of the obligation such as interest expense. Our aggregate obligations subsequent to December 31, 2009 are shown in the table below (dollars in thousands): Total 2010 2011 2012-2014 Thereafter Long-term debt obligation $ 41,312 $ 2,737 $ 31,147 $ 7,428 $ Capital lease obligation Operating lease obligation Purchase obligation Other long-term debt liabilities reflected on the Registrants Balance Sheet under GAAP Total $ 41,312 $ 2,737 $ 31,147 $ 7,428 $ 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 from Part I, Item 8., Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our current operations consist of land held for future development or sale. There is a warehouse located on one of the land parcels that is used for storage and generates some revenues through the leasing of that storage space. Our operating expenses relate mainly to the administration and maintenance costs associated with the land held for development or sale and storage space. We also have other income and expense items. We receive interest income from the funds deposited with our advisor at a rate of prime plus 1%. We have receivables from our affiliates which also provide interest income. Our other significant expense item is from the mortgage expense which includes interest payments on the debt secured by our properties. Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2008 We had a net income applicable to common shares of $0.92 million or $0.22 per diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2009 which included income from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest, of $3,000, as compared to a net income applicable to common shares of $26.71 million or $6.41 per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2008 which includes income from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest, of $13.97 million. Property revenue and operating expense Property operations expenses decreased due to an overall decrease in costs and additional repairs and maintenance incurred. General and administrative General and administrative expense decreased in 2009. The decrease was attributable to franchise taxes, accounting fees and professional fees which were less in 2009. The accounting fees expensed in 2008 included accounting fees for 2007 and 2008. Other income (expense) Our interest income has increased as compared to the prior period. The increase is due to payments received on our notes receivables from Unified Housing Foundation, an affiliated entity. The receivables are surplus cash flow notes. The entity is required to pay on the notes when they generate surplus cash flow, thus interest income is recorded when received. Mortgage loan interest expense has decreased primarily due to a reduction of loan fees paid in the current year. Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees increased due to writing off the majority of the value of our investment in Nakash Income Associates in the prior year. Income from involuntary conversion is due to insurance proceeds received in 2008, from the tornado damage incurred on the Falcon Point apartments. There were no involuntary conversions in the current year. 18 Table of Contents Due to the overall positive income, we had a net income fee expense due to our advisor. This fee is based on a percentage of total net income. Our net income in the prior year was higher than the current year, therefore the fee decreased. Discontinued operations Our discontinued operations for 2009 consist of two commercial properties sold. In 2008, discontinued operations consist of the two commercial properties sold in 2009 and seven apartment complexes sold in 2008. The office building and shopping center, 2010 Valley View and Parkway Centre, were sold in October 2009. Six of the apartment complexes; Brighton Court, Del Mar, Enclave, Meridian, Signature Place, and Sinclair Place, which are known as the Midland/Odessa properties, were sold in January 2008. One of the apartments, Falcon Point, was reclassified to discontinued operations in May 2008 due to the condemnation of the property as a result of tornado damage and managements subsequent decision to sell the property. The property was sold As-Is in November 2008. The statements of operations for all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the reclassification to discontinued operations. Included in discontinued operations for 2008 is a gain of $29.8 million, net of non-controlling interest, on the sale of the Midland/Odessa properties. The results of operations from these properties are shown below (dollars in thousands): For Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Revenue Rental $ 964 $ 1,963 Property operations 354 1,725 610 238 Expenses Interest (448 ) (2,900 ) General and administration (11 ) (885 ) Depreciation (146 ) (194 ) (605 ) (3,979 ) Net income (loss) from discontinued operations before gains on sale of real estate, taxes, fees and non-controlling interest 5 (3,741 ) Gain on sale of discontinued operations 29,750 Net income/sales fee to affiliate (4,512 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest before tax 5 21,497 Tax benefit (expense) (2 ) (7,524 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest $ 3 $ 13,973 Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 We had net income applicable to common shares of $26.71 million or $6.41 per diluted earnings per share in 2008, which includes income from discontinued operations of $13.97 million, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of ($735,000) or ($0.18) per diluted earnings per share in 2007, which includes a loss from discontinued operations of ($317,000) for the same period ended 2007. Property revenue and operating expense Rental and other property revenues decreased from $402,000 in 2007 to $310,000 in 2008. The decrease was due to a loss in rental revenues within our storage property. 19 Table of Contents Property operating expenses increased from $222,000 in 2007 to $381,000 in 2008. The increase was due to an overall increase in costs and additional repairs and maintenance incurred. Advisory fees decreased from $1,034,000 in 2007 to $895,000 in 2008. The advisory fees are based on the total net assets. We sold six apartment complexes in January 2008 and one in November 2008, reducing our asset base, thus reducing our fee. Other income (expense) Interest income decreased from $4.0 million in 2007 to $3.0 million in 2008. The decrease is due to no longer accruing interest income on our surplus cash flow notes receivable from Unified Housing Foundation, an affiliated entity. This entity is required to pay on the notes when they generate surplus cash flow, thus interest income is recorded when payments received. Mortgage and loan interest decreased in 2008 due to a decrease in the interest rate on the Travelers land mortgage. Discontinued operations Our discontinued operations for 2007 and 2008 consist of seven apartment complexes sold in 2008 and an office building and a shopping center sold subsequent to 2008. The office building and shopping center, 2010 Valley View and Parkway Centre, were sold in October 2009. Six of the apartment complexes; Brighton Court, Del Mar, Enclave, Meridian, Signature Place, and Sinclair Place which are known as the Midland/Odessa properties were sold in January 2008. One of the apartments, Falcon Point, was reclassified to discontinued operations in May 2008 due to the condemnation of the property as a result of tornado damage and managements subsequent decision to sell the property. The property was sold As-Is in November 2008. The statements of operations for all prior periods presented have been restated to reflect the reclassification to discontinued operations, as shown below (dollars in thousands): For Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Revenue Rental $ 1,963 $ 8,170 Property operations 1,725 4,631 238 3,539 Expenses Interest (2,900 ) (3,261 ) General and administration (885 ) (19 ) Depreciation (194 ) (746 ) (3,979 ) (4,026 ) Net loss from discontinued operations before gains on sale of real estate, taxes, fees and non-controlling interest (3,741 ) (487 ) Gain on sale of discontinued operations 29,750 Net income/sales fee to affiliate (4,512 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest before tax 21,497 (487 ) Tax benefit (expense) (7,524 ) 170 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of non-controlling interest $ 13,973 $ (317 ) 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are: meeting debt service requirements including balloon payments; fund normal recurring expenses; fund capital expenditures; and fund new property acquisitions. Our primary source of cash is from rents, collection on receivables, sale of assets, and refinancing of existing mortgages. In 2010, we will refinance debt obligations as they become due and generate cash from interest payments on notes receivable, storage rents and sale of properties. However, if refinancing and excess cash from operations does not prove to be sufficient to satisfy all our obligations as they mature, we may sell real estate, refinance real estate, and incur additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet our cash requirements. Financial Position The following impacted our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009: Our Real estate at cost decreased due the sale of the office building, 2010 Valley View and shopping center, Parkway Centre in October 2009. The sale of these income-producing projects reduces our real estate costs and the assets that remain include a storage warehouse and land held for development or sale. The Notes and interest payable balance decreased in connection with the disposition of the mortgage on the 2010 Valley View and Parkway Centre properties and our continued pay down of our debt obligations. Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as presented in Part I,