ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis by management should be read in conjunction with the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Quarterly Report) and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the Annual Report). This Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates and volatility in the securities markets; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; and risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, include among others, the factors listed and described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, which investors should review. There have been no changes from the risk factors previously described in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Managements Overview We are an externally advised and managed company that invests in notes receivable that are collateralized by income-producing properties in the Southern United States and in the past, real property. Our current principal source of income is interest income from related party receivables. We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition, dispositions and financings. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Our operations are managed by Pillar in accordance with an Advisory Agreement. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending investment opportunities. We have no employees. Employees of Pillar render services to us in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement. Pillar is considered to be a related party due to its common ownership with TCI, who is our controlling shareholder. 9 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Some of these estimates and assumptions include judgments on the provisions for uncollectible accounts and fair value measurements. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our notes to the consolidated financial statements. However, the following policies are deemed to be critical. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Related Parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing our own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative costs such as audit, legal and administrative fees paid to a related party. We also have other income and expense items including interest income from notes receivable and funds deposited with Pillar. 10 Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2025 to the three months ended March 31, 2024: The decrease in net income is primarily due to a decrease in interest income from related party receivables. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal liquidity needs are to fund normal recurring expenses. Our principal sources of cash are and will continue to be the collection of mortgage notes receivables, and the collections of receivables and interests from related companies. We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2025, along with cash that will be generated in the next twelve months from our related party receivables, will be sufficient to meet all of our current cash requirements.