ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of construction and mortgage financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; demand for apartments and commercial properties in the Companys markets and the effect on occupancy and rental rates; the Companys ability to obtain financing, enter into joint venture arrangements in relation to or self-fund the development or acquisition of properties; risks associated with the timing and amount of property sales and the resulting gains/losses associated with such sales; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates, and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; and risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, include among others, the factors listed and described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, which investors should review. There have been no changes from the risk factors previously described in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Other sections of this report may also include suggested factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such matters; nor can we assess the impact of all such matters on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise as we file them with the SEC. 15 Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company that currently owns land held for development or sale. As of September 30, 2012, we owned or had interests in 178.1 acres of land held for future development or sale. Our primary source of revenue is from the interest income on $26.3 million of notes receivable due from related parties. We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Prime Income Asset Management, LLC (Prime) served as the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager from July 1, 2009 until April 30, 2011. Prime also served as an Advisor and Cash Manager to ARL and TCI. Effective April 30, 2011, Pillar Income Asset Management, Inc. (Pillar) became the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager under substantially the same terms as the previous agreement with Prime. Pillar also serves as an Advisor and Cash Manager to ARL and TCI. Regis Realty Prime, LLC (Regis) provides property management services and brokerage services for our commercial properties. Critical Accounting Policies We present our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) completed its accounting guidance codification project. The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) became effective for our financial statements issued subsequent to June 30, 2009, and is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, we no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating our accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, we refer to the ASC guidance as the sole source of authoritative literature. The accompanying financial statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby we have determined that we are a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meet certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders, as a group, lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. For entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, our share of the net earnings or losses of these entities are included in net income. Our investment in TCI Eton Square, LP is accounted for under the equity method. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. 16 We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. Based on our acquisitions to date, our allocation to customer relationship intangible assets has been immaterial. We record acquired above-market and below-market leases at their fair values (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) equal to the difference between (1) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (2) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. Other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses. Depreciation and Impairment Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant and Equipment requires that qualifying assets and liabilities and the results of operations that have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented if the property operations are expected to be eliminated and we will not have significant continuing involvement following the sale. The components of the propertys net income that is reflected as discontinued operations include the net gain (or loss) upon the disposition of the property held for sale, operating results, depreciation and interest expense (if the property is subject to a secured loan). We generally consider assets to be held for sale when the transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and there are no known significant contingencies relating to the sale, such that the property sale within one year is considered probable. Following the classification of a property as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded on the assets. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 Interest Capitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real Estate General. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We cease capitalization when a building is considered substantially complete and ready for its intended use, but no later than one year from the cessation of major construction activity. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed of interest income on notes receivable. In accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, we recognize rental revenue of acquired in place and above-market and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC Topic 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and account for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. 17 Non-performing Notes Receivable We consider a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest Recognition on Notes Receivable For notes other than surplus cash notes, we record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. Prior to January 1, 2012, on cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income was only recognized to the extent that cash was received. As of January 1, 2012, due to the consistency of cash received on the surplus cash notes, we are recording interest as earned. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 4 Notes and Interest Receivable from Related Parties for details on our notes receivable. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures" and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Related parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties include affiliates of the entity, entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trusts for the benefits of employees, principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, as included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements of this report. It is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our current operations consist of land held for future development or sale. Our operating expenses relate mainly to the administration and maintenance costs associated with the land held for development or sale. We also have other income and expense items. We receive interest income from the funds deposited with our advisor at a rate of prime plus 1%. We have receivables from related parties which also provide interest income. Our other significant expense item is from the mortgage expense which includes interest payments on the debt secured by our land portfolio. 18 Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2012 to the same period ended 2011 We had net income of $356,000 or $0.08 per diluted earnings per share for the period ended September 30, 2012, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of $515,000 million or $0.13 per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2011. Revenues Land held for development or sale is our sole operating segment. There was no income generated from this segment for the three months ended September 30, 2012, nor for the prior period ended September 30, 2011. Expenses Property operating expenses were $12,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012. This represents an increase of $6,000, as compared to the prior period operating expenses of $6,000. There was an increase in property operating expenses related to the land portfolio of $6,000 which was due to an increase in POA fees billed for third quarter of 2012. General and administrative expenses were $65,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012. This represents a decrease of $29,000, as compared to the prior period general and administrative services of $94,000. There was a decrease in general and administrative expenses related to the other portfolio which consisted of a decrease of $11,000 in professional fees and a decrease of $18,000 in cost reimbursements to our Advisor. Advisory fees were $206,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012. This represents a decrease of $13,000 as compared to the prior period advisory fee of $219,000. The advisory fee is calculated as a percentage of total gross assets and subsequent to the disposition of Eagle Crest land and storage warehouse, this fee reduced in correlation to the decrease in assets. Other income (expense) Interest income was $972,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012. This represents an increase of $429,000 as compared to the prior period interest income of $543,000. The increase was related to the note receivables from Unified Housing Foundation, Inc., a related party. Prior to January 1, 2012, on cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income was only recognized to the extent that cash was received. As of January 1, 2012, due to the consistency of cash received on the surplus cash notes, we are recording interest as earned. Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees relate to IOTs 10.0% investment in TCI Eton Square, LP. This investment is accounted for under the equity method and recognizes its portion of the current period earnings. Discontinued operations relates to properties that were either sold or held for sale as of the period ended September 30, 2012. Included in discontinued operations is one property for 2012 and 2011. There were no properties sold in 2012. In 2011, we sold 13.0 acres of land with a storage warehouse (Eagle Crest). The gain on sale of the properties is also included in discontinued operations for those years. The following table summarizes revenue and expense information for the properties sold and held for sale (dollars in thousands): 19 For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 2011 Revenue Rental $ - $ - Expenses Property operations 3 7 General and administrative 40 1 Provision on impairment of real estate assets - - Mortgage and loan interest - 2 43 10 Loss from discontinued operations before gains on sale of real estate, taxes, and fees (43 ) (10 ) Loss on sale of discontinued operations - (475 ) Loss from discontinued operations $ (43 ) $ (485 ) Tax benefit 15 170 Net loss from discontinued operations $ (28 ) $ (315 ) Comparison of the nine months ended September 30, 2012 to the same period ended 2011 We had net income applicable to common shares of $1.9 million or $0.44 per diluted earnings per share for the period ended September 30, 2012, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of $2.3 million or $0.56 per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2011. Revenues Land held for development or sale is our sole operating segment. There was no income generated from this segment for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, nor for the prior period ended September 30, 2011. Expenses Property operating expenses were $56,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This represents an increase of $38,000, as compared to the prior period operating expenses of $18,000. There was an increase in the land portfolio of $45,000 and a decrease in the other portfolio of $7,000. The increase in the land portfolio was due to an increase in POA fees billed for 2012 and third and fourth quarter 2001 POA fees recorded in 2012. The decrease in the other portfolio was due to a decrease in professional fees. General and administrative expenses were $425,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This represents an increase of $55,000 as compared to the prior period general and administrative expenses of $370,000. This increase was related to the $141,000 net income fee due to our Advisor for the current period and offset by a decrease in professional services. Advisory fees were $608,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This represents a decrease of $42,000 as compared to the prior period advisory fee of $650,000. The advisory fee is calculated as a percentage of total gross assets and subsequent to the disposition of Eagle Crest land and storage warehouse, this fee reduced in correlation to the decrease in assets. 20 Other income (expense) Interest income was $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This represents an increase of $2.3 million as compared to the prior period interest income of $1.6 million. The increase was related to the note receivables from Unified Housing Foundation Inc., a related party. Prior to January 1, 2012, on cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income was only recognized to the extent that cash was received. As of January 1, 2012, due to the consistency of cash received on the surplus cash notes, we are recording interest as earned. Mortgage loan and interest expense was $828,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This represents a decrease of $100,000 as compared to the prior period expense of $928,000. This decrease is due to recurring principal payments on the Mercer Crossing/Travelers loan. Earnings from unconsolidated subsidiaries and investees relate to IOTs 10.0% investment in TCI Eton Square, LP. This investment is accounted for under the equity method and recognizes its portion of the current period earnings. Discontinued operations relates to properties that were either sold or held for sale as of the period ended September 30, 2012. Included in discontinued operations is one property for 2012 and 2011. There were no properties sold in 2012. In 2011, we sold 13.0 acres of land with a storage warehouse (Eagle Crest). The gain on sale of the properties, if applicable, is also included in discontinued operations for those years. The following table summarizes revenue and expense information for the properties sold and held for sale (dollars in thousands): For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012 2011 Revenue Rental $ - $ 159 Expenses Property operations 5 42 General and administrative 47 2 Provision on impairment of real estate assets - 1,474 Mortgage and loan interest - 85 52 1,603 Loss from discontinued operations before gains on sale of real estate, taxes, and fees (52 ) (1,444 ) Loss on sale of discontinued operations - (475 ) Loss from discontinued operations $ (52 ) $ (1,919 ) Tax benefit 18 672 Net loss from discontinued operations $ (34 ) $ (1,247 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are: meet debt service requirements including balloon payments; fund normal recurring expenses; fund capital expenditures; and fund new property acquisitions. 21 Our primary source of cash is from rents, collection on receivables, sale of assets, and the refinancing of existing mortgages. We will refinance debt obligations as they become due and generate cash from interest payments on notes receivable and the sale of properties. However, if refinancing and excess cash from operations does not prove to be sufficient to satisfy all our obligations as they mature, we may sell real estate, refinance real estate, and incur additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet our cash requirements. Cash flow summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows from Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and is not meant to be an all inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows (dollars in thousands): September 30, 2012 2011 Variance Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,256 $ 982 $ 3,274 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (4,057 ) $ 954 $ (5,011 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (189 ) $ (1,954 ) $ 1,765 The increase in the net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to the increase in interest income relating to the UHF notes receivable. Prior to January 1, 2012, on cash flow notes where payments are based upon surplus cash from operations, accrued but unpaid interest income was only recognized to the extent that cash was received. As of January 1, 2012, due to the consistency of the cash received on the surplus cash notes, we are recording interest as earned. The increase in net cash used in investing activities for 2012 is primarily related to the cash invested with our advisor. The cash used in financing activities is due to payments made on recurring debt obligations. We did not pay quarterly dividends in 2012 or 2011. Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials. Management is not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Inflation The effects of inflation on our operations are not quantifiable. Revenues from apartment operations tend to fluctuate proportionately with inflationary increases and decreases in housing costs. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation also affect the sales value of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates, earnings from short-term investments and the cost of new financings, as well as the cost of variable interest rate debt, will be affected. Tax Matters Financial statement income varies from taxable income principally due to the accounting for income and losses of investees, gains and losses from asset sales, depreciation on owned properties, amortization of discounts on notes receivable and payable and the difference in the allowance for estimated losses. IOT has alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards available for 2012 and has a loss for federal income tax purposes after consolidation in the ARL group for the first nine months of 2012; therefore, it recorded no provision for income taxes. 22 At September 30, 2012, IOT had a net deferred tax asset of approximately $1,460,000 due to tax deductions available to it in future years. However, as management cannot determine that it is more likely than not that IOT will realize the benefit of the deferred tax asset, a 100% valuation allowance has been established. In prior periods, IOT was part of the ARL consolidated federal group. During the third quarter 2012, Realty Advisors Management, Inc. and its subsidiaries acquired stock of ARL such that more than 80% of ARL was owned by Realty Advisors Management, Inc. As a result, IOT joined the Realty Advisors Management, Inc. consolidated group for federal income tax reporting.