ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: general risks affecting the real estate industry (including, without limitation, the inability to enter into or renew leases, dependence on tenants financial condition, and competition from other developers, owners and operators of real estate); risks associated with the availability and terms of construction and mortgage financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; demand for apartments and commercial properties in the Companys markets and the effect on occupancy and rental rates; the Companys ability to obtain financing, enter into joint venture arrangements in relation to or self-fund the development or acquisition of properties; risks associated with the timing and amount of property sales and the resulting gains/losses associated with such sales; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including, without limitation, construction delays, cost overruns, inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to such activities); risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates, and volatility in the securities markets; costs of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar laws and regulations; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; and risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, include among others, the factors listed and described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, which investors should review. There have been no changes from the risk factors previously described in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Other sections of this report may also include suggested factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such matters; nor can we assess the impact of all such matters on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise as we file them with the SEC. 14 Overview We are an externally advised and managed real estate investment company that currently owns land held for development or sale. As of March 31, 2015, we owned or had interests in 184.7 acres of land, located in Texas and held for future development or sale. We have no employees. Our primary source of revenue is from the interest income on over $25.4 million of notes receivable due from related parties. We have historically engaged in, and may continue to engage in, certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition and dispositions. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Pillar is the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager. Although the Board of Directors is directly responsible for managing the affairs of IOT, and for setting the policies which guide it, the day-to-day operations of IOT are performed by Pillar, as the contractual Advisor, under the supervision of the Board. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending real estate and real estate-related investment opportunities and arranging debt and equity financing for the Company with third party lenders and investors. Additionally, Pillar serves as a consultant to the Board with regard to their decisions in connection with IOTs business plan and investment policy. Pillar also serves as an Advisor and Cash Manager to TCI and ARL. Critical Accounting Policies We present our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) is the single source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP. As of the effective date, we no longer refer to the authoritative guidance dictating its accounting methodologies under the previous accounting standards hierarchy. Instead, we refer to the ASC Codification as the sole source of authoritative literature. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts, our subsidiaries, generally all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which we have a controlling interest. Arrangements that are not controlled through voting or similar rights are accounted for as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), in accordance with the provisions and guidance of ASC Topic 810 Consolidation, whereby we have determined that we are a primary beneficiary of the VIE and meet certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 04-5, Investors Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (EITF 04-5). VIEs are generally entities that lack sufficient equity to finance their activities without additional financial support from other parties or whose equity holders, as a group, lack adequate decision making ability, the obligation to absorb expected losses or residual returns of the entity, or have voting rights that are not proportional to their economic interests. The primary beneficiary generally is the entity that provides financial support and bears a majority of the financial risks, authorizes certain capital transactions, or makes operating decisions that materially affect the entitys financial results. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we consider qualitative and quantitative factors, including, but not limited to: the amount and characteristics of our investment; the obligation or likelihood for us or other investors to provide financial support; our and the other investors ability to control or significantly influence key decisions for the VIE; and the similarity with and significance to the business activities of us and the other investors. Significant judgments related to these determinations include estimates about the current future fair values and performance of real estate held by these VIEs and general market conditions. For entities in which we have less than a controlling financial interest or entities where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary, the entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, our share of the net earnings or losses of these entities are included in net income. Real Estate Upon acquisitions of real estate, we assess the fair value of acquired tangible and intangible assets, including land, buildings, tenant improvements, above-market and below-market leases, origination costs, acquired in-place leases, other identified intangible assets and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805 Business Combinations, and allocate the purchase price to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land at appraised value and buildings at replacement cost. 15 We assess and consider fair value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and/or capitalization rates, as well as available market information. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including the historical operating results, known and anticipated trends, and market and economic conditions. The fair value of the tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property as if it were vacant. We also consider an allocation of purchase price of other acquired intangibles, including acquired in-place leases that may have a customer relationship intangible value, including (but not limited to) the nature and extent of the existing relationship with the tenants, the tenants credit quality and expectations of lease renewals. Based on our acquisitions to date, our allocation to customer relationship intangible assets has been immaterial. We record acquired above-market and below-market leases at their fair values (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) equal to the difference between (1) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (2) managements estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining term of the lease for above-market leases and the initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases. A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by ASC Topic 835-20 Interest Capitalization of Interest and ASC Topic 970 Real Estate General. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We cease capitalization when a building is considered substantially complete and ready for its intended use, but no later than one year from the cessation of major construction activity. Other intangible assets acquired include amounts for in-place lease values that are based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenants lease. Factors to be considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, we include real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at market rates during the expected lease-up periods, depending on local market conditions. In estimating costs to execute similar leases, we consider leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses. ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant and Equipment requires that qualifying assets and liabilities and the results of operations that have been sold, or otherwise qualify as held for sale, be presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented if the property operations are expected to be eliminated and we will not have significant continuing involvement following the sale. The components of the propertys net income that is reflected as discontinued operations include the net gain (or loss) upon the disposition of the property held for sale, operating results, depreciation and interest expense (if the property is subject to a secured loan). We generally consider assets to be held for sale when the transaction has been approved by our Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, and there are no known significant contingencies relating to the sale, such that the property sale within one year is considered probable. Following the classification of a property as held for sale, no further depreciation is recorded on the assets. Depreciation and Impairment Real estate is stated at depreciated cost. The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of property, legal fees and other acquisition costs. Costs directly related to the development of properties are capitalized. Capitalized development costs include interest, property taxes, insurance, and other project costs incurred during the period of development. Management reviews its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates impairment in value. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. If such impairment is present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future occupancy, rental rates and capital requirements that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable. In accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations, we recognize rental revenue of acquired in place and above-market and below-market leases at their fair values over the terms of the respective leases, as applicable. Revenue Recognition on the Sale of Real Estate Sales and the associated gains or losses of real estate assets are recognized in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360-20, Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Sale. The specific timing of a sale is measured against various criteria in ASC Topic 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, we defer some or all of the gain recognition and account for the continued operations of the property by applying the finance, leasing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria are met. 16 Non-Performing Notes Receivable We consider a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest Recognition on Notes Receivable We record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. See Note 3 Notes and Interest Receivable from Related Parties for details on our notes receivable. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Related Parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Statement of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, as included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements of this report. It is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our net income applicable to common shares. Instead, we have focused on significant fluctuations within our operations that we feel are relevant to obtain an overall understanding of the change in income applicable to common shareholders. Our current operations consist of land held for future development or sale. Our operating expenses relate mainly to the administration and maintenance costs associated with the land held for development or sale. We also have other income and expense items. We receive interest income from the funds deposited with our Advisor at a rate of prime plus 1%. We have receivables from related parties which also provide interest income. Our other significant expense item is from the mortgage expense which includes interest payments on the debt secured by our land portfolio. 17 Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2015 to the same period ended 2014: We had net income of $554,000 or $0.13 per diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to net income of $559,000 or $0.13 per diluted earnings per share for the same period ended 2014. Revenues Land held for development or sale is our sole operating segment. There was no income generated from this segment for the three months ended March 31, 2015, nor for the prior period ended 2014. Expenses Property operating expenses were $7,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. This represents a decrease of $11,000, as compared to the prior period property operating expenses of $18,000. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in property owner association fees. General and administrative expenses were $174,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. This represents an increase of $12,000, as compared to the prior period general and administrative expenses of $162,000. This increase was primarily due to an increase in legal fees and professional fees. Advisory fees were $175,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. This represents an increase of $10,000, as compared to the prior period advisory fees of $165,000. Advisory fees are computed based on a gross asset fee of 0.0625% per month (0.75% per annum) of the average of the gross asset value. Other income (expense) Mortgage and loan interest was $165,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. This represents a decrease of $19,000 as compared to the prior period mortgage and loan interest expense of $184,000. This decrease was due to principal payments made in prior periods, thereby requiring less interest to be paid on our debt obligation in the current period. Discontinued operations relates to properties that were either sold or repositioned as held for sale as of the period ended March 31, 2015. There were no properties sold in 2015 or 2014. The gain on sale of the properties, if applicable, is also included in discontinued operations for those years. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our principal liquidity needs are: meet debt service requirements including balloon payments; fund normal recurring expenses; fund capital expenditures; and fund new property acquisitions. Our primary source of cash is from rents, collection on receivables, sale of assets, and the refinancing of existing mortgages. We will refinance debt obligations as they become due and generate cash from interest payments on notes receivable and the sale of properties. However, if refinancing and excess cash from operations does not prove to be sufficient to satisfy all our obligations as they mature, we may sell real estate, refinance real estate, and incur additional borrowings secured by real estate to meet our cash requirements. 18 Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows (dollars in thousands): March 31, 2015 2014 Variance Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,944 $ 4,550 $ (2,606 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,733 ) $ (4,550 ) $ 2,817 Net cash used in financing activities $ (215 ) $ - $ (215 ) The primary use of cash for operations is daily operating costs, general and administrative expenses, advisory fees, and land holding costs. Our primary source of cash is from interest income on notes receivable. We received less proceeds on notes receivable in the current period. Our primary cash outlays for investing activities are for investment of excess cash with our Advisor. The investing activity in the current period was mainly due to the proceeds received on the notes receivable. We invested less cash with our Advisor in the current period. Our primary sources of cash from financing activities are from proceeds on notes payables. Our primary cash outlays are for recurring debt payments and payments on maturing notes payable. During the current period, the Company repaid certain debt obligations, outside of current accrued interest. We did not pay quarterly dividends in 2015 or 2014. Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials. Management is not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Inflation The effects of inflation on our operations are not quantifiable. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation affect the sales value of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates, earnings from short-term investments and the cost of new financings, as well as the cost of variable interest rate debt, will be affected. Tax Matters In prior periods, IOT was part of the ARL consolidated federal group. During the third quarter 2012, May Realty Holdings, Inc. (MRHI), formerly known as Realty Advisors Management, Inc., subsidiaries acquired stock of ARL such that more than 80% of ARL was owned by the MRHI group. As a result, IOT joined the MRHI consolidated group for federal income tax reporting. Financial statement income varies from taxable income principally due to the accounting for income and losses of investees, gains and losses from asset sales, depreciation on owned properties, amortization of discounts on notes receivable and payable and the difference in the allowance for estimated losses. IOT has alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards available for 2015 and has a loss for federal income tax purposes after consolidation in the MRHI group for the first three months of 2015; therefore, it recorded no provision for income taxes. At March 31, 2015, IOT had a net deferred tax asset of approximately $1.4 million due to tax deductions available to it in future years. However, as management cannot determine that it is more likely than not that IOT will realize the benefit of the deferred tax asset, a 100% valuation allowance has been established. 19