ITEM 7 . MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, principally, but not only, under the captions Business, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, are based on managements beliefs and on assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, may, might, plan, estimate, project, should, will, result and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We caution you that, while forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs when we make them, they are not guarantees of future performance and are impacted by actual events when they occur after we make such statements. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, investors should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements, which are based on results and trends at the time they are made, to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: risks associated with the availability and terms of financing and the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments; failure to manage effectively our growth and expansion into new markets or to integrate acquisitions successfully; risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies, increases in interest rates and volatility in the securities markets; potential liability for uninsured losses and environmental contamination; risks associated with our dependence on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed; and the other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including those described under the Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. 7 The risks included herein are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report, including Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors , include additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for future periods and current reports on Form 8-K as we file them with the SEC, and to other materials we may furnish to the public from time to time through Forms 8-K or otherwise. We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business and our property portfolio. While we did not incur significant disruptions during 2020 from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to predict the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties. These uncertainties include the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or mitigate its impact and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, among others. The pandemic is having a significant impact on the U.S. economy and on the local markets in which our properties are located. Nearly every industry has been impacted directly or indirectly, and the commercial real estate market has come under pressure due to numerous factors, including preventative measures taken by local, state and federal authorities to alleviate the public health crisis such as mandatory business closures, quarantines, and restrictions on travel and shelter-in-place or stay-at-home orders. The future impact of COVID-19 on our business and financial activities will depend on future developments, which at this stage are unpredictable considering the fluctuations of COVID-19 outbreaks and the resulting changes in the market. Overview Our primary business is currently investing in mortgage receivables. The principal source of revenue for the Company is interest income on approximately $94 million of note receivables due from related parties. Since April 30, 2011, Pillar is the Companys external Advisor and Cash Manager under a contractual arrangement that is reviewed annually by our Board of Directors. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending business and investment opportunities. Pillar also arranges, for IORs benefit, debt and equity financing with third party lenders and investors. As the contractual Advisor, Pillar is compensated by IOR under an Advisory Agreement. The Company has no employees. Employees of Pillar render services to IOR in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement. This Advisory Agreement is more fully described in Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The Advisor . Pillar also serves as an Advisor and Cash Manager to ARL and TCI. We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition, dispositions and financings. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Critical Accounting Policies We present our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2020, IOR is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Recognition of Revenue Our revenues are composed largely of interest income on notes receivable. 8 Non-performing Notes Receivable The Company considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest recognition on Notes Receivable We record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment. (See Note 3, below, Notes and Interest Receivable from Related Parties , for details on our notes receivable.) Fair Value Measurement The Company applies the guidance in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , to the valuation of notes receivable. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Management reviews the carrying values of our mortgage notes receivable at least annually and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicates that impairment may exist. For notes receivable, impairment is considered to exist if it is probable that all amounts due under the terms of the note will not be collected. The note receivable review includes an evaluation of the collateral property securing such note. If impairment is found to exist, a provision for loss is recorded by a charge against earnings. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Related parties We apply ASC 850, Related Party Disclosures , to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. 9 Contractual Obligations At December 31, 2020, the Company had no outstanding debt, lease or purchase obligations. Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes. The amendments in this Update simplify the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions from ASC 740. Also, the amendments in this Update simplify the accounting for income taxes by requiring that an entity recognize a franchise tax (or similar tax) that is partially based on income as an income-based tax, requiring that an entity evaluate when a step up in the tax basis of goodwill should be considered part of the business combination, and other targeted changes. The effective date of the amendments is for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2020. The Companys adoption of ASU 2019-12 on January 1, 2021, did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations , for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 from Part II,