Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Certain of the Companys accounting policies require the application of judgment in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments and estimates are based upon the Companys historical experience, current trends and information available from other sources that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Companys significant accounting policies are summarized in Note B to our consolidated financial statements in our annual report on Form 10-K. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are more significant to the judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. Revisions in such estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revisions become known. Oil and Gas Property Accounting The Company uses the full cost method of accounting for its investment in oil and natural gas properties. Under this method of accounting, all costs of acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties (including such costs as leasehold acquisition costs, geological expenditures, dry hole costs, tangible and intangible development costs and direct internal costs) are capitalized as the cost of oil and natural gas properties when incurred. The full cost method requires the Company to calculate quarterly, by cost center, a ceiling, or limitation on the amount of properties that can be capitalized on the balance sheet. To the extent capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties, less accumulated depletion and related deferred taxes exceed the sum of the discounted future net revenues of proved oil and natural gas reserves, the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties subject to amortization, the cost of properties not being amortized, and the related tax amounts, such excess capitalized costs are charged to expense. Doubtful Accounts The Companys allowance for doubtful accounts receivable and notes receivable is based on an analysis of the risk of loss on specific accounts. The analysis places particular emphasis on past due accounts. Management considers such information as the nature and age of the receivable, the payment history of the tenant, customer or other debtor and the financial condition of the tenant or other debtor. Managements estimate of the required allowance, which is reviewed on a quarterly basis, is subject to revision as these factors change. Deferred Tax Assets Significant management judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets. The future recoverability of the Companys net deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income prior to the expiration of the loss carry forwards. At March 31, 2020, the Company had a deferred tax asset due to tax deductions available to it in future years. However, as management could not determine that it was more likely than not that the benefit of the deferred tax asset would be realized, a 100% valuation allowance was established. 9 Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2020, the Company had current assets of $4,111,000 and current liabilities of $462,000. Cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2019 were $27,000 as compared to $22,000 at December 31, 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities was $17,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Net cash used in financing activities was $12,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2020, consisting of the repayments of loans to a bank. Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2020 to the same period in 2019 The Company reported a net loss of ($97,000) for three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to net income of $126,000 for the similar period in 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company recorded oil and gas revenues of $125,000 as compared to $180,000 for the comparable period of 2019. The reduction was principally due to the dollar amount per barrel for oil and MCF for gas the Company received from the sale of natural gas For the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company recorded oil and gas operating expenses of $178,000 as compared to $179,000 for the comparable period of 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, corporate general & administrative expenses were $104,000 as compared to $88,000 for the comparable periods in 2019. The increase was due, for the most part, to consulting fees paid by the Company regarding oil and gas matters. Forward Looking Statements Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: A number of the matters and subject areas discussed in this filing that are not historical or current facts deal with potential future circumstances, operations and prospects. The discussion of such matters and subject areas is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally, and also may materially differ from the Companys actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters and subject areas relating to interest rate fluctuations, the ability to obtain adequate debt and equity financing, demand, pricing, competition, construction, licensing, permitting, construction delays on new developments, contractual and licensure, and other delays on the disposition, transition, or restructuring of currently or previously owned, leased or managed properties in the Companys portfolio, and the ability of the Company to continue managing its costs and cash flow while maintaining high occupancy rates and market rate charges in its retirement community. The Company has attempted to identify, in context, certain of the factors that it currently believes may cause actual future experience and results to differ from the Companys current expectations regarding the relevant matter of subject area. These and other risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Companys Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Inflation The Companys principal source of revenue is rents from a retirement community and fees for services rendered. The real estate operation is affected by rental rates that are highly dependent upon market conditions and the competitive environment in the areas where the property is located. Compensation to employees and maintenance are the principal cost elements relative to the operation of this property. Although the Company has not historically experienced any adverse effects of inflation on salaries or other operating expenses, there can be no assurance that such trends will continue or that, should inflationary pressures arise, the Company will be able to offset such costs by increasing rental rates in its real estate operation. Environmental Matters The Company has conducted environmental assessments on most of its existing owned or leased properties. These assessments have not revealed any environmental liability that the Company believes would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, assets or results of operations. The Company is not aware of any such environmental liability. The Company believes that all of its properties are in compliance in all material respects with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products. The Company has not been notified by any governmental authority and is not otherwise aware of any material non-compliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products in connection with any of its communities. 10