Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An investment in our securities involves various risks. All investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, applicable to us and our assets in conjunction with the other information in this report before investing in our securities. Our business may be impacted as a result of any health emergency. Considerable uncertainty still surrounds the recent Covid-19 pandemic, including its conclusion, the availability of and effectiveness of vaccines, the potential short-term and long term effects, including but not limited to shifts in consumer housing demand based on geography, affordability, housing type (e.g., multi-family vs. single family) and unit type (e.g., office studio vs. multi-bedroom), mainly resulting from the paradigm shift of work culture, the decentralization of corporate headquarters and the success of work from home models. Moreover, local, state and national measures taken to limit the spread of the recent pandemic have already resulted in significant economic impacts and mortality rates, the duration and scope of which cannot currently be predicted. The extent to which our financial condition or operating results will be effected in the future by any future pandemic will largely depend on future demand and developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted with any degree of accuracy. We may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms. We may need to rely on third party capital sources for a portion of our capital needs, including capital for acquisitions and development. The public debt and equity markets are among the sources on which we rely. There is no guarantee that we will be able to access these markets, or any other source of capital. The ability to access the public debt and equity markets depends on a variety of factors, including: general economic conditions affecting these markets; our own financial structure and performance; Our degree of reliance on the operations of certain businesses to collect receivables can affect our cash flow. The collection of our receivables are dependent upon the ability of the assets held by others that secure the notes or fund receivable payments to produce sufficient cash flow to service these notes and receivables. Changes in general or local economic conditions in the southwestern United States and, in particular, the Dallas, Texas area can have an adverse effect on the payment of these notes or other receivables. 4 Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common stock. The degree of leverage available to the Company could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. The degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt. We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance any existing debt when it matures. Substantially all of our assets are receivables from related parties We are the payee and holder of a note receivable secured by real properties owned by one entity and its affiliates which is payable through their cash flow, which can vary significantly from time to time. Payment on this note is dependent upon the successful operations of the organizations. Should the maker of the note be unable to produce the cash flow necessary to service the note, our collection of note and interest payment receipts could be adversely affected. The maker is in the business of making available affordable multi-family housing and is therefore subject to the challenges from governmental and non-governmental assistance organizations. The entity is determined to be a related party under ASC 850 due to our significant investment and that of our controlling shareholder in the performance of the collateral secured by the note receivable. In addition, we have a substantial receivable from our controlling shareholder. We engage in a number of business transactions with related parties, including investment in notes and accounts receivable which related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily in our best interests. If a related party is unable to, or prevented from payment of any such note or account receivable in accordance with its terms, that event could have a material adverse effect upon our cash flow, profits and value of our assets. While such notes and accounts receivable are set forth in our financial statements at full value, such assumption is based solely upon our projection of the ability of the related party to fund payments on such assets in accordance with their respective terms and conditions but does not provide any allowance or suggested offset for any industry experience considerations. If any event occurs which might prevent or delay compliance by makers of such notes or accounts receivable, same could have an adverse impact upon our revenue collections. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY Cybersecurity Risk Management Processes for Assessing, Identifying, and Managing Threats We rely on the information technology and systems maintained by Pillar and their employees to identify and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. Pillar takes various actions, and incurs significant costs, to maintain and manage the operation and security of information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. We believe that Pillars Director of Information Technology and his associates endeavor to evaluate and address cyber risks in alignment with our business objectives, operational needs and industry-accepted standards, such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology and CIS Critical Security Controls frameworks. Since we rely on accounting, financial, operational, management and other information systems, including the Internet and third-party hosted services to conduct our operations, store personal and sensitive data, process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and comply with financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, we have processes and procedures in place to monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity risks. These include, but are not limited to (i) maintaining a defined and practiced incident response plan; (ii) employing appropriate incident prevention and detection safeguards; (iii) maintaining a defined disaster recovery policy and employing disaster recovery software, where appropriate; (iv) educating, training and testing our user community on information security practices and identification of potential cybersecurity risks and threats; and (v) reviewing and evaluating new developments in the cyber threat landscape. Recognizing the complexity and evolving nature of cybersecurity risk, we engage with a range of external support in evaluating, monitoring and testing our cybersecurity management systems and related cyber risks. Cybersecurity Risk Board of Directors Oversight The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees cybersecurity matters, including the material risks related thereto, and regularly receives updates from Pillars Director of Information Technology regarding the development and advancement of its cybersecurity strategy, as well as the related risks.In the event of a cybersecurity incident, a detailed incident response plan is in place for contacting authorities and informing key stakeholders, including management. We do not believe we are reasonably likely to be materially affected from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of previous incidents. 5 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES At present, we dont own any real estate. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS None. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 6 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE American Exchange under the symbol IOR. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices as reported in the consolidated reporting system of the NYSE American for the quarters ended: 2024 2023 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 17.82 $ 13.11 $ 12.40 $ 10.58 Second Quarter $ 17.00 $ 16.00 $ 11.68 $ 10.75 Third Quarter $ 19.00 $ 15.69 $ 13.39 $ 11.09 Fourth Quarter $ 18.96 $ 16.01 $ 13.99 $ 11.09 On March 19, 2025, the closing market price of our common stock on the NYSE American Exchange was $17.35 per share, and was held by 288 stockholders of record. Our Board of Directors established a policy that dividend declarations on common stock would be determined on an annual basis following the end of each year. In accordance with that policy, the board determined not to pay any dividends on common stock in 2024, 2023 or 2022. Future distributions to common stockholders will be determined by the Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including our financial condition and requirements, future prospects, restrictions in financing agreements, business conditions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. On December 16, 2024, TCI announced an offer (Tender Offer) to purchase up to 100,000 shares of our outstanding common shares at a price of $18 per share, subject to certain conditions. The Tender Offer was completed on January 29, 2025, which resulted in TCIs acquisition of 21,678 of our common shares. Upon completion of the Tender Offer, TCI ownership of our shares increased to 83.7%. We have a stock repurchase program that allows for the repurchase of up to 1,650,000 shares of our common stock. This repurchase program has no termination date. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we repurchased a total of 44,536 shares in two block transactions at $18 per share. As of December 31, 2024, there were 513,003 shares remaining for repurchase. ITEM 6. RESERVED ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. Managements Overview We are an externally advised and managed company that invests in notes receivable that are collateralized by income-producing properties in the Southern United States and in the past, real property. Our current principal source of income is interest income on note receivables from related parties. We have historically engaged in and may continue to engage in certain business transactions with related parties, including but not limited to asset acquisition, dispositions and financings. Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arms length basis due to the absence of free market forces that naturally exist in business dealings between two or more unrelated entities. Related party transactions may not always be favorable to our business and may include terms, conditions and agreements that are not necessarily beneficial to or in our best interest. Our operations are managed by Pillar in accordance with an Advisory Agreement. Pillars duties include, but are not limited to, locating, evaluating and recommending investment opportunities. We have no employees. Employees of Pillar render services to us in accordance with the terms of the Advisory Agreement. Pillar is considered to be a related party due to its common ownership with TCI, who is our controlling stockholder. 7 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Some of these estimates and assumptions include judgments on the provisions for uncollectible accounts and fair value measurements. Our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our notes to the consolidated financial statements. However, the following policies are deemed to be critical. Non-performing Notes Receivable The Company considers a note receivable to be non-performing when the maturity date has passed without principal repayment and the borrower is not making interest payments in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Interest recognition on Notes Receivable We record interest income as earned in accordance with the terms of the related loan agreements. Allowance for Estimated Losses We assess the collectability of notes receivable on a periodic basis, of which the assessment consists primarily of an evaluation of cash flow projections of the borrower to determine whether estimated cash flows are sufficient to repay principal and interest in accordance with the contractual terms of the note. We recognize impairments on notes receivable when it is probable that principal and interest will not be received in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. The amount of the impairment to be recognized generally is based on the fair value of the partnerships real estate that represents the primary source of loan repayment (See Note 3 - Notes Receivable of our consolidated financial statements). Fair Value of Financial Instruments We apply the guidance in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, to the valuation of real estate assets. These provisions define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establish a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used in developing fair value estimates and require disclosure of fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable data (Level 3 measurements), such as the reporting entitys own data. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and includes three levels defined as follows: Level 1Unadjusted quoted prices for identical and unrestricted assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instruments categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. 8 Related Parties We apply ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, to evaluate business relationships. Related parties are persons or entities who have one or more of the following characteristics, which include entities for which investments in their equity securities would be required, trust for the benefit of persons including principal owners of the entities and members of their immediate families, management personnel of the entity and members of their immediate families and other parties with which the entity may deal if one party controls or can significantly influence the decision making of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing our own separate interests, or affiliates of the entity. Inflation The effects of inflation on our operations are not quantifiable. Revenues from property operations tend to fluctuate proportionately with inflationary increases and decreases in housing costs. Fluctuations in the rate of inflation also affect sales values of properties and the ultimate gain to be realized from property sales. To the extent that inflation affects interest rates, our earnings from short-term investments, the cost of new financings and the cost of variable interest rate debt will be affected. Environmental Matters Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other potential costs, relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property) where property-level managers have arranged for the removal, disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery for personal injury associated with such materials. We are not aware of any environmental liability relating to the above matters that would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Operations, for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 from Part II,