Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Part II, Item 8., Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. General Sandisk is a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions based on NAND flash technology. With a differentiated innovation engine driving advancements in storage and semiconductor technologies, our broad and ever-expanding portfolio delivers powerful flash storage solutions for AI workloads in datacenters, edge devices, and consumers. Our technologies enable everyone from students, gamers, and home offices to the largest enterprises and public clouds to produce, analyze, and store data. Our solutions include a broad range of solid-state drives, embedded products, removable cards, universal serial bus drives and wafers and components. Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets of Cloud, Client and Consumer. Through the Client end market, we provide our original equipment manufacturer and channel customers a broad array of high-performance flash solutions across personal computer, mobile, gaming, automotive, virtual reality headsets, at-home entertainment, and industrial spaces. The Consumer end market is highlighted by our broad range of retail and other end-user products, which capitalizes on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast presence around the world. Cloud is comprised primarily of products for datacenters, cloud service providers, and private cloud customers. We hold a strong position in the Consumer end market and have significant consumer brands and franchises globally, with valuable patent portfolios containing approximately 7,900 granted patents and approximately 3,200 pending patent applications worldwide. We have extensive customer, partner and channel relationships across a number of end-markets and geographies and have a rich heritage of innovation and operational excellence, a wide range of intellectual property assets, broad research and development capabilities and large-scale, efficient manufacturing supply chains. The strong growth in the amount, value and use of data continues, creating a global need for larger, faster, and more capable storage solutions. We are a customer-focused organization that has developed deep relationships with industry leaders to continue to deliver innovative solutions to help users capture, store and transform data across a boundless range of applications. We help original equipment manufacturers address storage opportunities and solutions to capture and transform data into a myriad of devices and edge technologies. We have also built strong consumer brands with tools to manage vast libraries of personal content and to push the limits of whats possible for storage. At Sandisk, we continue to transform ourselves to address the growth in data by providing what we believe to be the broadest range of storage technologies in the industry with a comprehensive product portfolio and global reach. Industry We operate in the data storage industry. The ability to access, store and share data from anywhere on any device is increasingly important to our customers and end users. From the intelligent edge to the cloud, data storage is a fundamental component underpinning the global technology architecture. Our strengths in innovation and cost leadership, diversified product portfolio and broad routes to market provide a foundation upon which we are solidifying our position as an essential building block of the digital economy. We believe there is a tremendous market opportunity flowing from the rapid global adoption of the technology architecture built with cloud infrastructure tied to intelligent endpoints all connected by high-performance networks. The value and urgency of data storage at every point across this architecture have never been clearer. The increase in computing complexity and advancements in artificial intelligence, along with growth in cloud computing applications, connected mobile devices and Internet-connected products, and edge devices is driving unabated growth in the volume of digital content to be stored and used. We believe our expertise and innovation in flash technology enable us to bring powerful solutions to a broader range of applications. We continuously monitor the full array of flash-based storage technologies, including reviewing these technologies with our customers, to ensure we are appropriately resourced to meet our customers storage needs. Flash Technology 5 Table of Contents Flash products provide non-volatile data storage based on flash technology. We develop and manufacture solid state storage products for a variety of applications including enterprise or cloud storage, client storage, automotive, mobile devices and removable memory devices. Over time, we have successfully developed and commercialized successive generations of 2- and 3-dimensional flash technology with increased numbers of storage bits per cell in an increasingly smaller form factor, further driving cost reductions. We devote significant research and development resources to the development of highly reliable, high-performance, cost-effective flash-based technology and are continually pursuing developments in next-generation flash-based technology capacities. We are leveraging our expertise, resources and strategic investments in non-volatile memories to explore a wide spectrum of persistent memory and storage class memory technologies. We have also initiated, defined and developed standards to meet new market needs and to promote wide acceptance of flash storage standards through interoperability and ease of use. Our Data Solutions Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets of Cloud, Client and Consumer and are comprised of the Sandisk brand. Certain of our products will also be sold for a limited transitional period under the Western Digital, WD and other brands under license from WDC. Cloud represents a large and growing end market comprised primarily of products for public or private cloud environments and enterprise customers. We provide the Cloud end market with an array of high-performance enterprise solid state drives. Our high-performance enterprise class solid state drives include high-performance flash-based solid state drive and software solutions that are optimized for performance applications providing a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in enterprise servers and supporting high-volume online transactions, AI-related workloads, data analysis and other enterprise applications. Through the Client end market, we provide numerous data solutions that we incorporate into our clients devices, which consist of solid state drive desktop and notebook PCs, gaming consoles and set top boxes, as well as flash-based embedded storage products for mobile phones, tablets, notebook PCs and other portable and wearable devices, automotive applications, Internet of Things, and industrial and connected home applications. Our solid state drives are designed for use in devices requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per gigabyte, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks. We serve the Consumer end market with a portfolio of solid state drives and removable flash, including cards and universal serial bus flash drives, through our retail and channel routes to market. We offer client portable solid state drives with a range of capacities and performance characteristics to address a broad spectrum of the client storage market. Our removable cards are designed primarily for use in consumer devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, imaging systems, cameras and smart video systems. Our universal serial bus flash drives are used in the computing and consumer markets and are designed for high performance and reliability. Competition Our industry is highly competitive. We believe we are well positioned with our leading flash product portfolio, premium consumer brand, differentiated semiconductor innovation engine and leadership in driving cost efficiency. Nevertheless, we face strong competition from other manufacturers of flash in the Cloud, Client and Consumer end markets. We compete with vertically integrated suppliers such as Kioxia, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SK Hynix, Inc., Yangtze Memory Technologies Co., Ltd. and numerous smaller companies that assemble flash into products. Business Strategy Our overall strategy is to leverage our innovation, technology and execution capabilities to be an industry-leading and broad-based developer, manufacturer and provider of storage devices and solutions that support the infrastructure that has enabled the unabated proliferation of data. We strive to successfully execute our strategy through the following foundational elements in order to create long-term value for our customers, partners, investors and employees: Innovation and Cost Leadership: We continue to innovate and develop advanced technologies across platforms to deliver timely new products and solutions to meet growing demands for scale, performance and cost efficiency in the market. Broad Product Portfolio: We leverage our capabilities in firmware, software and systems to deliver compelling and differentiated integrated storage solutions to our customers that offer the best combinations of performance, cost, power consumption, form factor, quality and reliability, while creating new use cases for our solutions in emerging markets. 6 Table of Contents Operational Excellence: We are focused on delivering the best value for our customers in Cloud, Client and Consumer end markets through a relentless focus on appropriately scaling our operations to efficiently support business growth; achieving best in class cost, quality and cycle-time; maintaining industry leading manufacturing capabilities; and having a competitive advantage in supply-chain management. Our strategy provides the following benefits, which distinguish us in the dynamic and competitive data storage industry: a varied product portfolio that establishes us as a leading developer and manufacturer of integrated products and solutions, making us a more strategic supply partner to our customers; efficient and flexible manufacturing capabilities, allowing us to leverage our flash research and development and capital expenditures to deliver innovative and cost-effective storage solutions to multiple markets; deep relationships with industry leaders across the data ecosystems that give us the broadest routes to market; and industry leading consumer brand awareness and global retail distribution presence. Research and Development We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on optimizing our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We have approximately 7,900 granted patents and approximately 3,200 pending patent applications worldwide. We continually seek additional U.S. and international patents on our technology. We believe that, although our active patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products also depend upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for cannot alone ensure our future success. In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented IP, particularly some of our process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements, contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the laws of the U.S. We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Manufacturing We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills, human resources and training to continue to be successful and to adjust our manufacturing operations as necessary. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products and high-quality components. The critical elements of our production are high volume and utilization, low-cost assembly and testing, strict adherence to quality metrics and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity. We continually monitor our manufacturing capabilities to respond to the changing requirements of our customers and maintain our competitiveness and position as a data technology leader. Flash manufacturing requires complex processes involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and rigorous testing. The manufacturing processes involve a number of steps that are dependent on each other and occur in clean room environments. These processes require skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization in order to keep the operating costs of these specialized manufacturing environments under control. We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. We also leverage contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. 7 Table of Contents Operations Our flash offerings consist of flash-based memory, controllers and firmware and other components. Substantially all of our flash-based memory is obtained from our joint ventures with Kioxia, which provides us with leading-edge, high-quality and low-cost flash memory wafers. While substantially all of our flash memory supply utilized for our products are purchased from these ventures, from time to time we also purchase flash memory from other flash manufacturers. Controllers are primarily designed in-house and manufactured by third-party foundries or acquired from third-party suppliers. Our assembly and test operations comprise in-house assembly and test facilities located in Penang, Malaysia and other contract manufacturers, and the assembly and test facility owned and operated by SDSS Venture. SDSS is20% owned by Sandisk and 80%owned by JCET Management Co., Ltd. We believe the use of our in-house assembly and test facilities and manufacturing partners provide flexibility and give us access to increased production capacity. We and Kioxia currently operate three business ventures, Flash Partners Ltd., Flash Alliance Ltd. and Flash Forward Ltd., (collectively, Flash Ventures) across seven flash-based manufacturing facilities in Japan, six of which are located in Yokkaichi, Japan and one of which is located in Kitakami, Japan. Flash Ventures will begin flash-based manufacturing operations at an eighth facility in Japan in calendar year 2025. Through Flash Ventures, we and Kioxia collaborate in the development and manufacture of flash-based memory wafers using semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by each of the Flash Ventures entities. We co-develop flash technologies (including process technology and memory design) with Kioxia for Flash Ventures use. We and Kioxia jointly own these co-developed flash technologies. We and Kioxia also contribute to the collaboration and license to each other technologies that are independently developed and owned by each of us and are reasonably necessary to our joint development or manufacture of flash-based memory. We hold a 49.9% ownership position in each of the Flash Ventures entities. We jointly control the operations of Flash Ventures with Kioxia, and we believe our participation in Flash Ventures helps us reduce product costs, increases our ability to control the quality of our products and speeds delivery of our products to our customers. Kioxia owns the facilities and provides wafer manufacturing services to Flash Ventures at cost using manufacturing equipment owned or leased by Flash Ventures and process technologies co-owned or contributed by us and Kioxia. Flash Ventures accounts for approximately 80% of the total manufacturing capacity in the facilities owned by Kioxia. We and Kioxia are entitled to purchase a share of Flash Ventures output, which generally equals 50% each. The price for which we and Kioxia pay Flash Ventures for flash memory wafers is cost plus a small markup. We are obligated to pay for variable costs incurred in producing our share of Flash Ventures flash-based memory wafer supply based on a rolling forecast. In addition, we are obligated to pay for half of Flash Ventures fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. The Companys 49.9% interest in the earnings of the Flash Ventures entities is recognized one quarter in arrears, reported in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. While Flash Ventures is operating, we and Kioxia are restricted from working with third parties to manufacture flash-based memory or from fabricating flash-based memory beyond the capacity specified in our agreements with Kioxia. In addition, we may not manufacture flash-based memory ourselves except to the extent that we acquire the manufacturing capacity of a Flash Ventures entity as a result of such entitys dissolution or termination of its joint venture agreements or upon our acquisition of all the ownership interests in such entity. The agreements governing the operations of the Flash Ventures entities also set out a framework for any investment by the joint venture partners in flash manufacturing capacity. We have jointly invested, and intend to continue to jointly invest, with Kioxia in the manufacturing equipment needed to support Flash Ventures flash manufacturing operations. In addition, we are obligated to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of capital investments that a Flash Ventures entity decides to make to the extent that the Flash Ventures entitys operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments. Each Flash Ventures entity operates for a set amount of time as agreed between us and Kioxia. Since the start of Flash Ventures, we and Kioxia have extended the term for all three of the Flash Ventures entities. Absent further extensions as mutually agreed between us and Kioxia, Flash Partners Ltd. and Flash Alliance Ltd. are currently set to expire on December 31, 2029, and Flash Forward Ltd. is currently set to expire on December 31, 2034. Each Flash Ventures entitys joint venture agreements may also be terminated earlier upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including earlier dissolution by agreement of the parties or an event of default or bankruptcy. Upon the expiration of a Flash Ventures entitys joint venture agreements, the applicable Flash Ventures entity will commence a wind-up process and be dissolved. Net proceeds from the dissolution will be distributed in kind or cash to us and Kioxia on a pro rata basis based on our respective ownership positions. The applicable Flash Venture entity will continue to operate during the period of winding up. On January 24, 2025, the Company and WDC entered into an equity transfer agreement (the Equity Transfer Agreement) to transfer WDCs entire equity interest in Unisplendour Corporation Limited and Unissoft (Wuxi) Group Co. Ltd. (Unis), referred to as the Unis Venture, to the Company. The Unis Venture is 48% owned by the Company and 52% owned by Unis. The Unis Venture markets and sells the Companys products in China. 8 Table of Contents Prior to the execution of the Equity Transfer Agreement, the Unis Venture was not historically managed as a component of the Company and as such, the related equity method investment was not reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Following the execution of the Equity Transfer Agreement, the Company accounts for its investment in the Unis Venture under the equity method of accounting. The Companys 48% interest in the earnings of the Unis Venture will be recognized one quarter in arrears from the date the Unis Venture was transferred to the Company and will be reported in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Materials and Supplies Our products consist of flash-based memory, controllers and firmware and other components. Following our separation from Western Digital, the Company has independently maintained strategic relationships with Flash Ventures and other key suppliers, and our supply relationships are now governed independently under the Companys standalone procurement structure. We continue to source flash memory and components primarily through these partnerships, while independently managing our supplier portfolio to balance business continuity, cost efficiency, and risk mitigation. Substantially all of our flash memory wafers are currently obtained from Flash Ventures. From time to time, we also purchase flash memory wafers from other flash manufacturers. Controllers are primarily designed in-house and manufactured by third-party foundries or acquired from third-party suppliers. We believe the use of our assembly and test facilities, as well as contract manufacturers, provides flexibility and gives us access to increased production capacity. We generally retain multiple suppliers for our component requirements, but for business or technology reasons we source some of our components from a limited number of sole or single source providers. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to computer manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, cloud service providers, resellers, distributors and retailers throughout the world. We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 80%, 86% and 81% of our net revenue for 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Sales to international customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade and other regulations. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We perform our marketing and advertising functions both internally and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user markets. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication and by providing information and support through our website. In accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and original equipment manufacturers with other sales incentive programs. For 2025 and 2024, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. For 2023, one customer accounted for 15% of our net revenue. Seasonality Historically, we have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second fiscal quarters as a result of increased customer spending. Seasonality can also be impacted by cyclicality in the industry and macroeconomic conditions. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Service and Warranty We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from the date of sale, depending on the type of product, with a small number of products having a warranty ranging up to ten years or more. Our warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing, processing or recertification of returned products for our customers. For additional information regarding our service and warranty policy, see Part II, Item 8., Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5, Supplemental Financial Statement Data of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents Human Capital Management Our People We believe data should inspire every person to move, create, discover, share, and unlock their potential. Our investment in our people seeks to empower our employees to develop breakthrough Flash memory solutions for our customers and drive meaningful impact for our stakeholders. As of June 2025, our global team includes approximately 11,000 employees across 33 countries73% in Asia Pacific, 19% in the Americas, and 8% in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Belonging To attract and retain top talent, we are committed to fostering a culture where every individual feels a sense of belonging, respect, and collaboration. We continue to evolve our approach to community and connection in the workplace through innovative, employee-led groups that reflect the variety of identities, interests, and aspirations of our people. While our Employee Resource Groups remain a cornerstone in celebrating the unique backgrounds and experiences of our employees, we are expanding the scope of these communities to include shared interests, hobbies, and areas of personal and professional growth. These evolving employee-led communities create meaningful opportunities for connection, learning, and engagement, enabling employees to bring their whole selves to work and contribute creatively to our culture. Together, these communities reinforce our commitment to our core values of Innovation, Collaboration, Winning, Agility, and Openness. Talent Development and Engagement We believe in supporting our people through learning and development opportunities and our pay-for-performance philosophy. To help our employees reach their full potential, we aim to cultivate an environment that encourages learning, development, and career growth. Our performance framework includes developing goals collaboratively through transparent and actionable feedback through regular performance discussions. Our new on-demand learning management system offers learning activities and tools to help employees chart their career journey and track their progress. We also provide upskilling and reskilling opportunities to our factory employees through on-the-job training, technical classes, workshops, and partnerships with universities and colleges. We believe that ongoing engagement is key to retention and prioritize these efforts by listening to and identifying opportunities to strengthen employee engagement, while influencing our overall strategy. As part of this commitment, we solicit feedback through a variety of methods, including engagement surveys, which are a valuable tool to capture employee sentiment and identify clear, actionable ways to improve the employee experience. Compensation and Benefits We believe recognition and rewards are essential to attracting, retaining, and motivating top talent, especially in our dynamic and complex industry. Our approach to compensation is rooted in flexibility, competitiveness, and responsiveness to the unique needs of our workforce and the evolving local talent markets in which we operate. We offer a modern Total Rewards strategy that goes beyond traditional compensation by incorporating employee choice, creativity, and ongoing feedback. Our programs include a mix of base salary, short-term and long-term incentives, and regionally tailored benefits. These are informed by annual benchmarking that uses third-party market data, as well as proactive engagement with our employees through focus groups, listening sessions, and surveys. This ongoing dialogue helps us identify new opportunities and tailor offerings that align with employee priorities and expectations. In addition, we invest in the physical, mental, and financial well-being of our employees through a differentiated suite of benefits that reflect local needs while staying true to our global culture and values. These benefitswhich may include health coverage, life and disability insurance, retirement plans, paid time off, employee assistance programs, and an employee stock purchase planempower employees to make choices that support their personal and professional goals. Health and Safety We are committed to creating a safe work environment everywhere we operate. We provide extensive health and safety resources and training to all our employees, including additional training to those who work in manufacturing and operations through an integrated system to manage health and safety standards at our facilities. Government Regulation Our worldwide business activities are subject to various laws, rules and regulations of the United States (the U.S.) as well as of foreign governments. Compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to global trade, the environment, consumer and data protection, employee health and safety and taxes, could have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position and overall business in subsequent periods. For a discussion of associated risks, see Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability We believe responsible and sustainable business practices support our long-term success. As a company, we strive to protect and support our people, our environment and our communities. This commitment to better is why we support sustainability-focused initiatives to minimize our impacts in day-to-day operations and in our long-term strategic plans. Initiatives range from fostering an inclusive workplace, continuously improving the efficient use of materials and energy, active and mindful management of our supply chain, and impactful, globally integrated ethics and compliance programs. We strive to protect the human rights and civil liberties of our employees and partners through policies, procedures and programs that avoid risks of compulsory and child labor, both within our company and throughout our supply chain. We foster a workplace of dignity, respect, and inclusion through our recruiting, professional development and advancement practices, internal communications and employee engagement initiatives. We strive to educate our employees at least annually on relevant ethics and compliance topics, publish accessible guidance on ethics and compliance-related issues and available company resources in our Global Code of Conduct and encourage reporting of ethical concerns through any of several global and local reporting channels. We use a robust integrated management system, with associated policies and procedures, to evaluate and manage occupational health and safety risks, environmental compliance and chemical and hazardous substance risks. We seek to minimize our impact on the environment through emissions reduction targets and other initiatives and to evaluate and enhance our climate resilience. We continuously innovate to identify opportunities to reduce the energy used by our products, and the energy used and quantity and types of new materials required to manufacture them. Available Information We maintain an Internet website at www.sandisk.com. The information on our website is not incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as amended, are available on our website at www.sandisk.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with, or furnishing of these reports to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A.Risk Factors Summary of Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to a number of risks, including market, financial, regulatory and operational risks related to our business, our separation from Western Digital Corporation (WDC) and our common stock. The following is a summary of certain key risk factors for investors in our securities. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of risks and uncertainties discussed below. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Operational Risks Adverse global or regional conditions could harm our business. Disruption in our supply chain, other inability to source our supply requirements, or an increase in the costs of materials or components could negatively affect our business. Our operations are subject to a substantial risk of damage or disruption. Public health crises have had, and could in the future have, a negative effect on our business. Our inability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled management and technical talent could negatively impact our business prospects. Product defects could subject us to costly warranty claims, litigation or indemnification claims. The compromise, damage or interruption of our technology infrastructure, systems or products from cyber incidents, data security breaches or other related problems could have a material negative impact on our business. We may be adversely affected by risks and challenges associated with the use of artificial intelligence (AI). Business and Strategic Risks We rely substantially on strategic relationships that subject us to risks and uncertainties. Competitive conditions, including declining average selling prices, volatile demand, technological change, industry consolidation and lengthy supply qualifications, in our industry can negatively impact our business. Failure to properly manage technology transitions and product development and introduction could harm our competitiveness and operating results. We experience sales seasonality and cyclicality, and accurate forecasting has become more difficult. Failure to successfully execute on strategic initiatives may negatively impact our future results. Loss of revenue from a key customer, or customer base consolidation, could harm our operating results. If we fail to respond to demand changes within our distribution channel or retail market or maintain and grow our applicable market share, our business could suffer. Financial Risks Our level of debt may negatively impact our liquidity, restrict our operations and ability to respond to business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our operating results. Increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. Legal and Compliance Risks Our failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations related to data use and security could subject us to legal proceedings, penalties, significant liability, loss of customers, loss of revenue or reputational harm. We are or may be subject to legal and regulatory requirements as well as customer, industry and coalition standards, and compliance with those requirements could increase our operating costs and failure to comply may harm our business. Our aspirations, disclosures and actions related to environmental, social and governance matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. We and certain of our officers may at times be involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties. Our industrys and our companys reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that key components of our business could be copied and also subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. Future material impairments in the value of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets would negatively affect our operating results. 12 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE SPIN-OFF We may not achieve the expected benefits of the spin-off, and the spin-off may adversely impact our business. We have incurred and may continue to incur material costs and expenses as a result of the spin-off. Failure to ensure compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or ineffective internal control over financial reporting could result in uncertainties regarding our financial statements and lead our stock price to suffer. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, public company and may not be reliable as to our future results. WDC may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the spin-off, or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when WDC is no longer obligated to provide services under the various agreements. WDCs indemnification of us for certain liabilities in connection with the spin-off may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or WDC may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligation in the future. If we are required to make payments pursuant to our indemnities to WDC in connection with the spin-off, our financial results could be adversely impacted. If the distribution of our shares does not continue to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment or if we fail to preserve such treatment, we, WDC and WDC stockholders could be subject to significant United States (U.S.) federal income tax liabilities, and we could be required to indemnify WDC. The spin-off and related internal restructuring transactions may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. Overlapping officer roles and directorships with WDC may give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest. Failure to have received third party consent for contracts and other assets from the spin-off requiring such consent could adversely impact our financial condition and future results of operations. We may be unable to effectively make the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult to resell our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains an exclusive forum provision that could impact stockholders ability and interest in bringing lawsuits against us and any of our directors, officers or other employees; Tax matters may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Provisions in our joint venture agreements with Kioxia Corporation (Kioxia) may deter, prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the market price of our common stock and limit our future strategic opportunities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL RISKS Adverse global or regional conditions could harm our business. A large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and substantially all of our products are produced overseas. As a result, our business depends significantly on global and regional conditions. Adverse changes in global or regional economic conditions, including, but not limited to, volatility in the financial markets, tighter credit, recession, inflation, rising interest rates, slower growth in certain geographic regions, political uncertainty, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, trade war, other macroeconomic factors, changes to social conditions and regulations, could significantly harm demand for our products, increase credit and collectability risks, result in revenue reductions, reduce profitability as a result of underutilization of our assets, cause us to change our business practices, increase manufacturing and operating costs or result in impairment charges or other expenses. Our revenue growth is significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face challenges in international sales markets. We are subject to risks and regulatory obligations associated with our global manufacturing operations and global sales efforts, as well as risks and regulatory obligations associated with our utilization of contract manufacturers, including: obtaining governmental approvals and compliance with evolving foreign regulations the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals the impacts of political and economic instability; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations 13 Table of Contents the continued evolution and implementation of complex global and local tax regimes; weaker protection of intellectual property rights policies and financial incentives by governments in China, the U.S. and countries in Europe and Asia designed to reduce dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturing capabilities trade barriers, such as export controls, export bans, import restrictions, embargoes, sanctions, license and certification requirements (including semiconductor, encryption and other technology), tariffs and complex customs regulations difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls; and financial volatility and disruptions to supply chain resulting from public health crises. For example, the United States has recently announced changes to U.S. trade policy, including increased tariffs on imported goods. In August 2025, President Trump and members of his administration have stated tariffs on semiconductors may be implemented soon, subject to exemptions. We are monitoring to assess potential implications on the Company. Though the majority of our products sold in the U.S. are currently exempt from tariffs, additional tariff increases or the loss of applicable exemptions would increase the cost of goods sold for our products sold in the U.S., which could negatively impact our margins and financial performance. Increases in the price of our products in response to increased costs may adversely impact demand for those products in the U.S., which could also negatively impact our performance and financial results. Future trade policies and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, the terms of any trade arrangements that may be negotiated between the U.S. and other countries, the scope, amount, or duration of tariffs that may be imposed by any country, and the impact of these factors on our business, either directly or as a result of the impact on the business of our customers, are uncertain and may contribute to increased costs and reduced demand for our products, each of which could harm our financial performance. Uncertainty surrounding international trade policy and regulations could also have an adverse effect on consumer confidence and spending. As a result of these risks, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers who provide critical services, materials or components, and a disruption in our supply chain or other inability to source our supply requirements, or an increase in the costs of materials or components, could negatively affect our business. We depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), controllers, dynamic random-access memory, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. We also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. In addition, we use logistics partners to manage our worldwide just-in-time hubs and distribution centers and to meet our freight needs. Many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our products and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. We therefore depend on these suppliers to meet our business needs, including dedicating adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products. Our suppliers have in the past been, and may in the future be, unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, including as a result of events outside of their control such as trade restrictions (including tariffs, quotas and embargoes), supply chain shortages, geopolitical conflicts, cybersecurity incidents, public health emergencies or natural disasters. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, or if we cannot purchase materials at a reasonable price, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. Trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas and embargoes, demand from other high-volume industries for materials or components used in our products, disruptions in supplier relationships or shortages in other components and materials used in our customers products could result in increased costs to us, longer lead times, or decreased demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business. Delays, shortages or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products could also harm our business. We do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers, so we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. Any significant problems that occur at our suppliers could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems. When we do have contractual commitments with suppliers in an effort to stabilize the supply of our components, those commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components or make significant cash advances to the supplier and may not result in a satisfactory supply of our components. We may cancel or defer outstanding purchase commitments with certain suppliers due to changes in actual and forecasted demand, which may result in fees, penalties and other associated charges. Such cancellations or deferments may also negatively impact our relationships with certain suppliers or lead to a decline in the financial performance of certain suppliers, each of which could result in even more limited availability of components needed for our products. 14 Table of Contents In addition, our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. Our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, decide to exit the industry or redirect their investments and increase costs to us. In addition, some of our suppliers have experienced a decline in financial performance, including as a result of canceled or deferred purchase commitments. Where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation or a decline in financial performance is increased. Some of our suppliers may also be competitors in other areas of our or their business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. Our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are subject to substantial risk of damage or disruption. We conduct our operations at large, high-volume, purpose-built facilities in Japan, Malaysia and throughout Asia. The facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout Asia and elsewhere. If a fire (including a climate change-related fire), flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, contamination event, terrorist attack, cybersecurity incident, physical security breach, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a health epidemic negatively affects any of these facilities, it would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products and source components and would harm our business. Possible impacts include work and equipment stoppages and damage to or closure of our facilities, or those of our suppliers or customers, for an indefinite period of time. Impacts of any of these events may also include closures of our manufacturing facilities, under-absorbed overhead, increased logistics, component and other costs, decreased demand for our products, and manufacturing challenges. Climate change has in the past and is expected to continue to increase the incidence and severity of certain natural disasters, including wildfires and adverse weather events. In addition, the geographic concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from any of these problems. We may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. Due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and damage to our facilities, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. Climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of certain types of insurance by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of certain natural disasters. We depend upon Kioxia to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for Flash Ventures. If Kioxia fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause Flash Ventures to breach various financing covenants. Public health crises have had, and could in the future have, a negative effect on our business. Public health crises may negatively impact our workforce and operations, as well as those of our strategic partners, customers, suppliers and logistics providers. Impacts of public health crises may include, without limitation, closures of our manufacturing facilities under-absorbed overhead increased logistics, component and other costs decreased demand for our products and manufacturing challenges. Employee infections or government restrictions to contain the spread of infectious disease, like travel restrictions, quarantines, business shutdowns, or trade controls, could harm employees productivity and hinder operations in Flash Ventures factories or our other worksites and our business and results of operations as a whole. Further, global pandemics and other public health crises may cause financial market instability, credit issues, and increased cybersecurity and data privacy risks as more employees work remotely. The degree to which any public health crises ultimately impact our business will depend on many factors beyond our control, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled management and technical talent. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, retain, and develop highly skilled management and technical talent capable of advancing NAND technology in an increasingly complex and competitive global environment. The rapid pace of innovation driven by AI, global research and development competition, evolving models of work, and intensifying customer demands for faster, more efficient solutions has significantly raised the bar for the type of technical expertise required to power current and next-generation technologies. As a result, acquiring and retaining such talent has become increasingly difficult. If we are unable to hire and retain key talent and to effectively manage succession planning for key leadership roles, our operating results could be harmed. 15 Table of Contents These challenges are further compounded by uncertainty surrounding our post-separation performance and evolving organizational structure, which may impact employee confidence and lead to increased attrition or operational inefficiencies. While we have implemented retention arrangements for key employees to mitigate this risk, we may still experience further attrition following the payment of these incentives. Additionally, compensation is closely tied to the performance of our business and given the inherent cyclicality of the memory and storage markets, we may face periods where our ability to offer competitive compensation is constrained, placing us at a disadvantage in attracting or retaining top talent during downturns in our operating results. Constraints on global talent mobility and hiring may also affect our ability to attract and retain the specialized skills needed to support our business. While we continue to invest in employee development, workforce planning, and structural agility, the speed and complexity of technological change and market demands create ongoing people-related risks that may impact our ability to sustain long-term innovation and operational performance. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. In addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, including as a result of third-party components or applications that we incorporate in our products, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement. As part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our original equipment manufacturer and original design manufacturer customers. Our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Our standard warranty provisions attempt to put limits on damages and exclude liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us, but may be unenforceable or fail to limit our liability as intended. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional expenses if our warranty provisions do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. If these additional expenses are significant, they could harm our business. The compromise, damage or interruption of our technology infrastructure, systems or products by cyber incidents, data security breaches, other security problems, design defects or system failures could have a material negative impact on our business. We experience cyber incidents of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our computer systems and networks, including cloud-based platforms. In addition, the technology infrastructure and systems of some of our suppliers, vendors, service providers, contract manufacturers, cloud solution providers and partners have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, such incidents. Cyber incidents can be caused by ransomware, computer denial-of-service attacks, data exfiltration, worms and other malicious software programs or other attacks, including the covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, and the use of techniques or processes that change frequently, may be disguised or difficult to detect, or are designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, and may continue undetected for an extended period of time. Cyber incidents may result from social engineering or impersonation of authorized users, and may also result from efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism or fraud by third parties and sabotage. In some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent incidents may reduce the functionality or performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. We believe malicious cyber acts are increasing in number and that cyber threat actors are increasingly organized and well-financed or supported by state actors, and are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only infiltrate systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts may create heightened risk of cyber incidents. 16 Table of Contents Our increasing use of AI, including generative AI technologies, may also elevate the risk of cyber incidents. These technologies can be leveraged by threat actors to automate and scale cyberattacks, generate highly convincing phishing or social engineering content, identify and exploit vulnerabilities more efficiently, or create malicious code that is more difficult to detect. In addition, generative AI models may inadvertently expose sensitive information if not properly secured or trained on confidential data. The use of AI by malicious actors may also accelerate the development of novel attack techniques that are adaptive, evasive, and capable of bypassing traditional security controls. As AI tools become more accessible and sophisticated, the potential for their misuse increases, further complicating efforts to detect, prevent, and respond to cyber threats. Our products are also targets for malicious cyber acts. While some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers, which could harm our business by exposing us to litigation and indemnification claims and hurting our reputation. In addition, our products themselves may contain vulnerabilities, whether due to design flaws, implementation errors, or integration with third-party components, that could be exploited to gain unauthorized access to or disrupt functionality of the product. These vulnerabilities may be identified internally or disclosed by external security researchers, independent entities, or other third parties, including in the form of previously unknown or zero-day exploits. If efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, IP or sensitive or personal information. Compromises of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, IP or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties and subject us to liability. As a result of actual or perceived breaches, we may experience additional costs, notification requirements, civil and administrative fines and penalties, indemnification claims, litigation or damage to our brand and reputation. All of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the risks, challenges, and evolving regulatory landscape associated with the use of AI in our operations, product development, and business practices. We are increasingly leveraging AI technologies, including generative AI applications and tools, to support and enhance our various operational processes. While AI may promote efficiency and offer analytical advantages, it is complex and rapidly-changing, and its implementation carries inherent risks. Implementation of AI technologies can be costly and time-consuming, and there is no guarantee that such technology will be effective or beneficial. The incorporation of AI algorithms or training methodologies into our decision-making processes may result in flawed, irrelevant, insufficient, or biased outputs, potentially impacting our strategic choices, operational effectiveness, and regulatory compliance. These inaccuracies can arise from limitations in training data, algorithmic design, or unintended consequences of machine learning models. Actual or perceived deficiencies or failures in our implementation or use of AI could result in competitive disadvantages, regulatory action, legal liability, brand or reputational harm, and negative financial results. In addition, the use of AI in the development of our products could potentially lead to ambiguities in intellectual property ownership, infringement or misappropriation risks, which could impact our competitive position and expose us to litigation, monetary penalties, or operational disruptions. The unauthorized or unapproved use of generative AI tools by our employees, contractors, or other third parties may lead to the inadvertent disclosure of confidential, proprietary, or personal information, exposing us to data security, privacy, and legal risks and reputational harm. Misuse of such tools can also result in violations of applicable laws and regulations, including data protection and intellectual property laws. As legal and regulatory frameworks surrounding AI continue to evolve, we may be required to adapt our practices, policies, or systems, which could increase operational costs, limit innovation, or expose us to liability. This could materially affect our operations, financial condition, and ability to achieve our strategic objectives. BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC RISKS We rely substantially on strategic relationships with various partners, including Kioxia, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business. We have entered into and expect to continue to enter into strategic relationships with various partners for product development, manufacturing, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our business ventures with Kioxia. We depend on Flash Ventures for the development and manufacture of flash-based memory. Our strategic relationships, including Flash Ventures, are subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. 17 Table of Contents The terms of our agreements with Kioxia with respect to Flash Ventures require that substantially all of our flash-based memory be obtained from Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes and makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. For example, we are contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we order any flash-based memory, and our orders placed with Flash Ventures on a rolling basis are binding. As a result, a failure to accurately forecast supply and demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in inventory, technology transitions or the expansion of Flash Ventures capacity. Over-investment by us or our competitors can result in excess supply and lead to significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or underutilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in Flash Ventures. For example, in 2023, WDC incurred $296 million in charges for unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs as a result of reduced utilization of its manufacturing capacity and $108 million in charges to write down our inventory as a result of decreases in market pricing. In 2025, we incurred $75 million in charges as a result of underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and $24 million in charges to write down our inventory. These charges were attributable to a significant imbalance of supply and demand and actions taken in response thereto. On the other hand, if we under-invest in Flash Ventures, or otherwise grow or transition Flash Ventures capacity too slowly, we may not have enough supply of flash-based memory, or the right type of flash-based memory, to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis, and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and market share as a result. If our supply is limited, we might make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, which could result in less favorable gross margins or damage customer relationships. In addition, while Flash Ventures is operating, our agreements with Kioxia contain certain restrictions on our ability to work with third parties to manufacture flash-based memory or to fabricate flash-based memory beyond the capacity specified in the agreements, or to manufacture flash-based memory ourselves except to the extent that we acquire any manufacturing capacity of a Flash Ventures entity as a result of that entitys dissolution, termination of its joint venture agreements or acquisition by us. This could also impair our ability to consolidate with other industry participants who manufacture flash-based memory. Our control over the operations of our business ventures may be limited, and our interests could diverge from our strategic partners interests regarding ongoing and future activities. For example, each Flash Ventures entity operates for a defined period of time agreed upon between the joint venture partners. Absent further extensions as mutually agreed between us and Kioxia, Flash Partners Ltd. and Flash Alliance Ltd. are currently set to expire on December 31, 2029, and Flash Forward Ltd. is currently set to expire on December 31, 2034. Each Flash Ventures entitys joint venture agreements may also earlier terminate upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including earlier dissolution by agreement of the parties or an event of default or bankruptcy. Upon the expiration of a Flash Ventures entitys joint venture agreements, the applicable Flash Ventures entity will commence a wind-up process and be dissolved. Net proceeds from the dissolution will be distributed in kind or cash to us and Kioxia on a pro rata basis based on our respective ownership positions. The applicable Flash Venture entity will continue to operate during the period of winding up. Although we and Kioxia have agreed to extend the operating period for each Flash Ventures entity since the start of Flash Ventures, there is a risk that we and Kioxia will be unable to agree on a further extension of one or more of the Flash Ventures entities. Additionally, under the Flash Ventures agreements, we cannot unilaterally direct most of Flash Ventures activities, and we have limited ability to source or fabricate flash outside of Flash Ventures. Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both Kioxia and us for technology transitions and capacity expansions, and our business could be harmed if our technology roadmap and investment plans are not sufficiently aligned with Kioxias. Lack of alignment with Kioxia with respect to Flash Ventures could negatively impact our ability to react quickly to changes in the market, or to stay at the forefront of technological advancement. Misalignment could arise due to changes in Kioxias strategic priorities, management, ownership or access to capital, which have changed in recent years and could continue to change. Kioxias stakeholders may include, or have included in the past, competitors, customers, a private equity firm, government entities or public stockholders. Kioxias management changes, ownership and capital structure could lead to delays in decision-making, disputes or changes in strategic direction that could negatively impact the strategic partnership, and therefore us. There may exist conflicts of interest between Kioxias stakeholders and Flash Ventures or us with respect to, among other things, protecting and growing Flash Ventures business, intellectual property and competitively sensitive confidential information. Together with Kioxia, we fund a portion of the investments required for Flash Ventures through lease financings. Continued availability of lease financings for Flash Ventures is not guaranteed and could be limited by several factors, including investor capacity and risk allocation policies, our or Kioxias financial performance, changes to our or Kioxias business, ownership or corporate structure and the availability of tools and equipment eligible for lease financing. To the extent that lease financings are not accessible on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. Our strategic relationships are subject to additional risks that could harm our business, including, but not limited to, the following: failure by our strategic partners to comply with applicable laws or employ effective internal controls 18 Table of Contents difficulties and delays in product and technology development at, ramping production at and transferring technology to, our strategic partners declining financial performance of our strategic partners, including failure by our strategic partners to timely fund capital investments with us or otherwise meet their commitments, including paying amounts owed to us or third parties when due we may lose the rights to, or ability to independently manufacture, certain technology or products being developed or manufactured by strategic partners, including if any of them is acquired by another company, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses a bankruptcy event involving a strategic partner could result in structural changes to or termination of the strategic partnership and changes in tax or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes to the agreements governing our strategic partnerships. We participate in a highly competitive industry that is often subject to declining average selling prices, volatile demand, rapid technological change and industry consolidation, as well as lengthy product qualifications, all of which can negatively impact our business. Demand for our devices, software and solutions, which we refer to in this Risk Factors section as our products, depends in large part on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. Demand for and prices of our products are influenced by, among other factors, actual and projected data growth, the balance between supply and demand in the storage market, including the effects of new fab capacity, macroeconomic factors and geopolitical tensions, including tariffs or trade restrictions, business conditions, technology transitions and other actions taken by us or our competitors. The storage market has in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of excess capacity leading to liquidation of excess inventories, inventory write-downs, underutilization charges, significant reductions in average selling prices and negative impacts on our revenue and gross margins, and volatile product life cycles that harm our ability to recover the cost of product development. Further, our average selling prices and gross margins tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales to lower priced products. We have faced declining gross margins relating to the Flash Business in the past, and may face potential gross margin pressures in the future, resulting from our average selling prices declining more rapidly than our cost of revenue. Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence and write-downs. Finally, the data storage industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years, which could enhance the resources and lower the cost structure of some competitors. These factors could result in a substantial decrease in our market share and harm our business. As we compete in new product areas, the overall complexity of our business may increase and may result in increases in research and development expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. We must also qualify our products with customers through potentially lengthy testing processes with uncertain results. Some of our competitors offer products that we do not offer, which may allow them to win sales from us, and some of our customers may be developing storage solutions internally, which may reduce their demand for our products. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and our competitors may be able to gain a product offering or cost structure advantage over us, which would harm our business. Further, our competitors may utilize pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. We may also have difficulty effectively competing with manufacturers benefiting from governmental investments and may be subject to increased complexity and reduced efficiency in our supply chain as a result of governmental efforts to promote domestic semiconductor industries in various jurisdictions. If we do not properly manage technology transitions and product development and introduction, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. The markets for our products continuously undergo technology transitions that may impact our product roadmaps and that we must anticipate in order to adapt our existing products or develop new products effectively. If we fail to adapt to or implement new technologies or develop new products desired by our customers quickly and cost-effectively, or if technology transitions negatively impact our existing product roadmaps, our business may be harmed. In addition, the success of our technology transitions and product development depends on a number of other factors, including: research and development expenses and results difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp market acceptance/qualification effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand 19 Table of Contents the vertical integration of some of our products, which may result in more capital expenditures and greater fixed costs than if we were not vertically integrated our ability to cost effectively respond to customer requests for new products or features (including requests for more efficient and efficiently produced products with reduced environmental impacts) and software associated with our products our ability to increase our software development capability and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products. Moving to new technologies and products may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. Our success in new product areas may depend on our ability to enter into favorable supply agreements. In addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. Additionally, new technologies could impact demand for our products in unforeseen or unexpected ways and new products could substitute for our current products and make them obsolete, each of which would harm our business. We also develop products to meet certain industry and technical standards, which may change and cause us to incur substantial costs as we adapt to new standards or invest in different manufacturing processes to remain competitive. We experience sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. In addition, accurately forecasting demand has become more difficult, which could harm our business. Sales of many of our products tend to be seasonal and subject to supply-demand cycles. Changes in seasonal and cyclical supply and demand patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand. Changes in the product or channel mix of our business may also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns. For example, we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of each quarter. As a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of financial results for a given quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. The variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on accurately forecasting market and customer demand for our products. Accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers due to volatility in global economic conditions, end market dynamics and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. Further, for many of our original equipment manufacturer customers utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. As forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. This has caused, and may in the future cause, our forecasts to exceed actual market demand, resulting in periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, underutilization of manufacturing capacity and price decreases, which has impacted and could further impact our sales, average selling prices and gross margin or require us to incur additional inventory write-downs or additional charges for unabsorbed manufacturing overhead, thereby negatively affecting our operating results and our financial condition. For example, in 2023, WDC incurred $296 million in charges for unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs as a result of reduced utilization of its manufacturing capacity and $108 million in charges to write down its inventory as a result of decreases in market pricing. In 2025, we incurred $75 million in charges as a result of underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and $24 million in charges to write down our inventory. These charges were attributable to a significant imbalance of supply and demand and actions taken in response thereto. If market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. In addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. Such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory, potentially resulting in inventory write-downs or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. 20 Table of Contents Failure to successfully execute on strategic initiatives including acquisitions, divestitures or cost saving measures may negatively impact our future results. We may make acquisitions and divestitures and engage in cost saving measures. In order to successfully execute on strategic initiatives, we must successfully complete attractive transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of an acquired company or employees and integration of processes and systems. We may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. Even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. There may be difficulties with implementing new systems and processes or with integrating systems and processes of companies with complex operations, which may result in inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and may increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. Failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges (including goodwill impairments or other asset write-downs) and other expenses, both of which could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our stockholders as well as earn-out or other contingent consideration payments and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity. Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could negatively affect our business. In addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest with or in certain other countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so, including investments in joint ventures, minority investments and outbound technology transfers to certain countries. Cost saving measures, restructurings and divestitures may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our manufacturing or other facilities. As a result of these actions, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. These actions could also impact employee retention. In addition, we cannot be sure that these actions will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect, that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or consolidations or that we will not forgo future business opportunities as a result of these actions. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve other risks as well. Additional risks we may encounter include those associated with: disruption to our business and the continued successful execution of our company strategy, goals and responsibilities increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation assimilation and integration of different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures and technologies or solutions acquired or licensed, while maintaining quality, and designing and implementing appropriate risk management measures the incurrence of significant transaction fees and costs the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business that we may not become aware of until after the completion of the acquisition and the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations. Loss of revenue from a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. For 2025, 2024, and 2023, 40%, 41% and 47%, respectively, of our total revenue came from sales to our top ten customers. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing, contractual terms and the environmental impact and attributes of our products, often resulting in the allocation of risk or increased costs to us as the supplier. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. We may experience events such as the loss of a key customer, prohibition or restriction of sales to a key customer by law, regulation or other government action, reductions in sales to or orders by a key customer, customer requirements to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs or the acquisition of a key customer by one of our competitors. These events may impact our operating results and financial condition. Further, government authorities may implement laws or regulations or take other actions that could result in significant changes to the business or operating models of our customers. Such changes could negatively impact our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could negatively impact our profitability. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, increased customer pressure on our prices, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. Also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. Fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as cloud storage and computing platforms, mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. As a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could negatively impact our profitability. In addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. To remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. To the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Sales in the distribution channel and to the retail market are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes within these markets, or maintain and grow our applicable market share, our business could suffer. Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. We face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. As a result of the shift to mobile devices, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. If we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our business could suffer. Additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, our operating results would be negatively impacted. Negative changes in the creditworthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. A significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers. Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels. Particularly in the retail market, negative publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. Further, changes to the retail environment, such as store closures caused by macroeconomic conditions or changing customer preferences, may reduce the demand for our products. If customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be negatively impacted. FINANCIAL RISKS Our level of debt may negatively impact our liquidity, restrict our operations and ability to respond to business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. In connection with the separation, we incurred debt financing in our capital structure, and in the future, we may incur additional debt. The amount of debt we incur may be substantial and may be on terms less favorable to us than those historically provided to WDC. Our level of debt and the terms governing our existing debt have had and could continue to have significant consequences, which may include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, capital contributions to Flash Ventures or other general corporate purposes requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including minimum liquidity and free cash flow requirements and limitations on our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person (iii) enter into sale/leaseback transactions or certain transactions with affiliates (iv) incur additional indebtedness; and (v) incur liens and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to meet our debt service obligations, comply with our debt covenants and deleverage will depend on our cash flows and financial performance, which may be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. The rate at which we are able to or choose to deleverage is uncertain. Failure to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. We may be unable to cure, or obtain a waiver of, an event of default or otherwise amend our debt agreements to prevent an event of default thereunder on terms acceptable to us or at all. In that event, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt, which may result in the cross-acceleration or cross-default of other debt, leases or other obligations. If we do not have sufficient funds available to repay indebtedness when due, whether at maturity or by acceleration, we may be required to sell important strategic assets, refinance such debt, incur additional debt or issue common stock or other equity securities, which we may not be able to do on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. Our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could harm our business. Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure any of our indebtedness that is secured, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. Refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs. Our financing arrangements include debt with interest rates consisting of a variable reference rate plus an applicable margin. For debt incurred under our revolving credit facility, the applicable margin is determined by reference to our consolidated leverage ratio. As a result, rising reference rates or an increase in our consolidated leverage ratio could result in increased interest expense and debt service obligations. In addition, our credit ratings have impacted and could continue to impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our credit ratings will reflect the views of the ratings agencies as to our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular credit rating or maintain a particular credit rating in the future. We also guarantee a significant amount of lease and other financial obligations of Flash Ventures owed to third parties. In particular, Flash Ventures sells to and leases back a portion of its equipment from a consortium of financial institutions. All of the lease obligations are guaranteed 50% by us and 50% by Kioxia. The leases are subject to customary covenants and cancellation events that relate to Flash Ventures and each of the guarantors. If a cancellation event were to occur, Flash Ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the other parties to the lease transactions to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. Such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, increased interest rates or waiver fees. If a resolution is not reached, we may be required to pay all of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may from time to time seek to further refinance our indebtedness by issuing additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or other securities that are convertible into common stock or grant the holder the right to purchase common stock, each of which may dilute our existing stockholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in U.S. dollars from non-U.S. based vendors. If the U.S. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. In addition, our purchases of flash-based memory from Flash Ventures and our investment in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen. If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase. When such events occur, they have had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our business. Prices for our products are substantially U.S. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the U.S. Therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the U.S., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could negatively impact demand and revenue growth. In addition, currency variations may adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the U.S. 23 Table of Contents We have historically attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term foreign exchange contracts. The effectiveness of this hedging strategy is highly dependent on business, market and global economic conditions. We do not hedge all of our foreign currency exchange rate exposure, and even when used for hedging purposes, foreign exchange contracts do not cover our full exposure, can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place and may actually harm our operating results. Further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. Operating losses, third-party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. Hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. Increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. Some of our original equipment manufacturer customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as original design manufacturers, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our original equipment manufacturer customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct original equipment manufacturer customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our original equipment manufacturer customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to expand our original equipment manufacturer and distribution channel sales into emerging economies, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Our customers credit risk may also be exacerbated by an economic downturn or other adverse global or regional economic conditions. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS We are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, sharing and security of data, including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability or loss of customers, loss of revenue and reputational harm. We are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, security and privacy of third-party data, including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. We are also subject to the terms of our privacy policies and obligations to third parties related to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. In many cases, these requirements apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. Our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business, subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. Laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, security and privacy of third-party data change over time and new laws and regulations become effective from time to time. We are subject to notice and privacy policy requirements, as well as obligations to respond to requests to know and access personal information, correct personal information, delete personal information and say no to the sale of personal information. Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We may also be subject to restrictions on cross-border data transfers and requirements for localized storage of data that could increase our compliance costs and risks and affect the ability of our global operations to coordinate activities and respond to customers. Compliance requirements or even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability or lead us to change our business practices. 24 Table of Contents We are or may in the future be subject to state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, health and safety, trade and public-company reporting and disclosure regulations, customers standards of corporate citizenship and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), and compliance with those regulations and requirements could cause an increase in our operating costs and failure to comply may harm our business. We are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, financial transactions, health and safety practices and public-company reporting and disclosures requirements. These laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. Implementing compliance with such laws and regulations may result in an increase in our operating costs, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could also lead to significant liabilities. Legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products, which could impair our ability to conduct business in certain jurisdictions or with certain customers and harm our operating results. In addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future, which could substantially increase the complexity of our disclosure requirements and our compliance and operating costs. If we or our suppliers, customers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, certain customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which could harm our business. In connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the RBA, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we or our suppliers, customers or partners were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand, which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. Our aspirations, disclosures and actions related to environmental, social and governance matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. In addition to Sandisks commitment to operating responsibly, there is demonstrated interest from customers, investors, business partners, associates, and other stakeholders regarding Sandisks assessment and management of relevant environmental, social and governance matters. Where matters, or aspects of a matter, are determined to be material, we may announce initiatives and goals to mitigate such risks from time to time, for example, our intentions regarding operational and product energy efficiency and net zero emissions. These statements reflect our current plans and aspirations; they are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Our ability to achieve any environmental, social and governance objective is subject to numerous factors, including risks, many of which may be outside of our control. These may include availability and cost of clean energy sources, the evolving regulatory and reporting requirements affecting environmental, social and governance practices and disclosures, where and how our products are used and any related implications of their greenhouse gas emissions, and successful execution of our business strategy. Our failure to achieve our goals or accurately track and report on our performance in a timely basis, or in accordance with regulatory requirements, and the potential added costs involved, could adversely affect our reputation financial performance and growth our ability to attract or retain talent and our attractiveness as a business partner or supplier, and could expose us to increased litigation risk, as well as increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. We and certain of our officers may at times be involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties, which could materially harm our business. From time to time, we may be involved in litigation, including antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. We may be the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. Some of the actions may seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products, and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business. From time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our business. Any such matters could result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including fines, penalties or restrictions on our business activities. 25 Table of Contents Litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. In the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. With or without merit, such matters may be complex, may extend for a protracted period of time, may be very expensive, and the expense may be unpredictable. Litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. In addition, litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings and any related publicity may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel, affect demand for our products and harm the market prices of our securities. We may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings. These liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations or proceedings civil or criminal fines and penalties legal and other expenses and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. The nature of our industry and its reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. The data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. We have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, and we and our customers have in the past received, and we and our customers may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they may be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert managements attention and resources away from our business. We may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license intellectual property to others. Intellectual property risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no intellectual property protection as a deterrent against litigation. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase the intellectual property risks we face. Litigation may be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may harm our business. If we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications may be extremely costly. We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. We may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. In addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. Moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged intellectual property infringement. The scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. We may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Third-party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. A future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business. 26 Table of Contents Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key components of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. If we fail to protect our technology, intellectual property or contract rights, our customers and others may seek to use our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. There can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. It is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. If a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. There are entities whom we believe may infringe our IP. Enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. If we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors may be able to use similar technology to compete with us. Moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. Also, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, we cannot be certain that these contracts and safeguards have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our technology and intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. Maintaining and strengthening our brands are important to maintaining and expanding our business, as well as to our ability to enter into new markets for our technologies, products and services. The success of our brands depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. We believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. Any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could negatively affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. Additionally, our ability to prevent unauthorized uses of our brands and technologies would be negatively impacted if our trademark registrations were successfully challenged or overturned in the jurisdictions where we do business. We also have trademark applications pending in a number of jurisdictions that may not ultimately be granted, or if granted, may be challenged or invalidated, in which case we would be unable to prevent unauthorized use of our brands and logos in such jurisdictions. We have not filed trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where our brands or logos may be used. Future material impairments in the value of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets would negatively affect our operating results. We regularly review our goodwill and property, plant and equipment for potential impairment. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. We use qualitative factors to determine whether goodwill is more-likely-than-not impaired and whether a quantitative test for impairment is considered necessary. If we conclude from the qualitative assessment that goodwill is more-likely-than-not-impaired, we are required to perform a quantitative analysis to determine the amount of impairment. Subsequent to the completion of the separation, we identified potential impairment indicators related to the trading price of our common stock and a resulting market capitalization that was below its December 27, 2024 net book value. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification No. 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we performed a quantitative test, which indicated that the carrying value of our reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value resulting in the recognition of a $1.8 billion impairment charge as of, and for the nine months ended,March 28, 2025. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions, our operating or financial results, or our estimates of the fair value of our reporting unit could impact the amount of any impairment charges or lead to additional impairment charges. Material impairment charges would negatively affect our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE SPIN-OFF We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off, and the spin-off may adversely impact our business. We may not realize any strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the spin-off. We cannot predict with certainty if or when anticipated benefits will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved. Following the completion of the spin-off, our operational and financial profile has changed and may continue to change, and we face new risks. We are now a smaller and less-diversified company compared to WDC prior to the spin-off and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could result in greater volatility in our financial results and cash flows. While we believe that the spin-off has positioned each company to better unlock its full standalone long- term potential, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. Further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of our shares and the shares of WDC is or will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the spin-off not occurred. We or WDC may offer products or engage in businesses that compete with the other companys products or businesses. Under the separation and distribution agreement between WDC and us, WDC is subject to certain limited noncompetition obligations for a specified period of time after the separation but otherwise will not be restricted in its ability to compete with us. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur ongoing material costs and expenses as a result of the spin-off. We have and will continue to incur costs and expenses as a result of the spin-off. These costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including, without limitation, financial reporting, the continuing development and implementation of our own accounting, legal, treasury, corporate governance, internal audit, investor relations and other compliance and corporate functions, the establishment of our own information technology system (including enterprise resource planning), and costs associated with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes- Oxley Act). We have incurred and expect to continue to incur ongoing costs and dis-synergies in connection with, or as a result of, the separation and related restructuring transactions, including costs of operating as independent, publicly traded companies that the two businesses will no longer be able to share. We cannot assure you that these costs will not be material to our business and financial results. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned, and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting. Neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm is required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the year following the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of our testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or we identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, any remedial actions required could divert internal resources and take a significant amount of time and effort to complete, and could result in us incurring additional costs that we did not anticipate, including the hiring of outside consultants. Further, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired, which could lead to weakened investor confidence in our financial results, and our stock price may suffer. We were spun off from our former parent company, WDC, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. We were spun off from WDC, our former parent company, and have only operated as an independent, publicly traded company since February 21, 2025. Some of the historical information about us in this annual report on Form 10-K refers to our business as part of pre-spin-off WDC. Our historical financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K is derived from the consolidated financial statements of Sandisk and the combined financial statements and accounting records of WDC. Accordingly, the historical financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: 28 Table of Contents we may need to make significant investments to replicate or outsource certain systems, infrastructure and functional expertise in the future. These initiatives to develop our independent ability to operate will be costly to implement. We may not be able to operate our business as efficiently or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline how we finance our working capital or other cash requirements may differ from how we financed those requirements as part of pre-spin-off WDC. Our access to and cost of debt financing is different from the historical access to and cost of debt financing under pre-spin-off WDC. Differences in access to and cost of debt financing are likely to result in differences in interest rates charged to us on financings, the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that may be available to us, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and in preparing our financial statements, pre-spin-off WDC made allocations of costs and corporate expenses deemed to be attributable to our business. However, these costs and expenses reflect the costs and expenses attributable to how our business operated as part of a larger organization and do not necessarily reflect costs and expenses that would be incurred by us had we been operating independently. As a result, our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of future results. For additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the current and historical financial statements, see the sections of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. WDC may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the spin-off, or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when WDC is no longer obligated to provide services under the various agreements. In connection with our spin-off, we entered into certain agreements with WDC, such as the separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, a stockholders and registration rights agreement, a transitional trademark license agreement and an intellectual property cross-license agreement, as discussed in greater detail in the section of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled Related Party TransactionsSeparation and Distribution Agreement and Other Related Party Transactions with WDC, which provide for the performance by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off. If WDC is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations in favor of us, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If we do not have in place our own systems and services, and do not have agreements with other providers of these services when the transitional or other agreements terminate, or if we do not implement the new systems or replace WDCs services successfully, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, which could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These systems and services may also be more expensive to install, implement and operate, or less efficient than the systems and services WDC provides during the transition period. In connection with our spin-off from WDC, WDC has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that WDCs ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. WDC has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities as discussed further in the section of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled Related Party TransactionsSeparation and Distribution Agreement and Other Related Party Transactions with WDC. However, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities that WDC has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from WDC will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that WDC will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, WDCs insurers may attempt to deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the spin-off. In connection with our spin-off from WDC, we have agreed to assume, and indemnify WDC for, certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to WDC, we would need to meet those obligations and our financial results could be adversely impacted. We have agreed to assume, and indemnify WDC for, certain liabilities as discussed further in the section of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled Related Party TransactionsSeparation and Distribution Agreement and Other Related Party Transactions with WDC. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution. 29 Table of Contents If the distribution of our shares, together with certain related transactions, does not continue to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment, Sandisk, WDC and WDC stockholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify WDC for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. We are also restricted from taking certain actions that could adversely impact the Intended Tax Treatment to preserve the tax-free treatment to WDC and its stockholders and to comply with the tax matters agreement. As a condition to the completion of the distribution, WDC received an opinion of counsel (the Tax Opinion) that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies for the Intended Tax Treatment. The Tax Opinion was based on and relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from WDC and us, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. Nevertheless, an opinion of counsel neither binds the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) nor precludes the IRS or the courts from adopting a contrary position. Therefore, notwithstanding the Tax Opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution or any such related transaction is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the Tax Opinion. If the distribution or certain related transactions failed to qualify for the Intended Tax Treatment, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, WDC would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the shares of our stock in a taxable sale for their fair market value and WDC stockholders that received shares of our stock in the distribution or receive shares of our stock in a clean-up distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. In addition, WDC and Sandisk could incur significant U.S. federal income tax obligations, whether under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with WDC. Further, to preserve the tax-free treatment to WDC and its stockholders of the distribution and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with WDC, we are restricted from taking certain actions that could adversely impact the Intended Tax Treatment of the distribution, together with certain related transactions. Failure to adhere to any such restrictions, including in certain circumstances that may be outside of our control, could result in tax being imposed on WDC for which we could bear responsibility and for which we could be obligated to indemnify WDC. In addition, even if we are not responsible for tax liabilities of WDC under the tax matters agreement, we nonetheless could potentially be liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities if WDC were to fail to pay such taxes. The terms of the tax matters agreement, furthermore, restrict us from taking certain actions, particularly for the two years following the spin-off, including (among other things) the ability to freely issue stock, to merge or agree to merge with a third party, to be acquired or agree to be acquired by certain parties and to raise additional equity capital. Such restrictions could impair our ability to implement strategic initiatives. Also, any indemnity obligation to WDC might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that we or our stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. These restrictions may limit our ability to enter into certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business, which could negatively impact our stock price performance. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, we are required to indemnify WDC against certain tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of our stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. For a discussion of the tax matters agreement, see the section of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled Related Party TransactionsSeparation and Distribution Agreement and Other Related Party Transactions with WDC. The spin-off and related internal restructuring transactions may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. The spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are generally defined to include (a) transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or (b) transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A creditor or an entity acting on behalf of a creditor (including, without limitation, a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or WDC or any of our or its respective subsidiaries) may bring a lawsuit alleging that the spin-off or any of the related transactions constituted a fraudulent conveyance. If a court accepts these allegations, it could impose a number of remedies, including, without limitation, voiding the distribution and returning our assets or shares and subjecting WDC and/or us to liability. 30 Table of Contents The distribution of our common stock was also subject to state corporate distribution statutes. Under applicable Delaware law, including the DGCL, a corporation may only pay a distribution of common stock to its stockholders if certain conditions are met, including that the distribution is made entirely out of surplus. Although WDC made the distribution of our common stock entirely out of surplus and we and WDC obtained solvency opinions from an independent appraisal firm, we and WDC cannot ensure that a court would reach the same conclusion in determining the availability of surplus for the separation and the distribution to WDCs stockholders. Some of our officers and directors currently hold or previously held positions with WDC and may still hold equity in WDC, which may give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest. There is an overlap between certain of our directors and directors of WDC. Shared directors may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each of WDC and Sandisk. For example, there is a potential for a conflict of interest when we on the one hand, and WDC and its respective subsidiaries and successors on the other hand, are party to commercial transactions concerning the same or adjacent investments. In addition, certain of our executive officers and directors, because of their current or former positions with WDC, own shares or equity awards of WDC. Following the spin-off, even though our board of directors currently consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and our executive officers who were employees of WDC prior to the completion of the spin-off ceased to be employees of WDC upon the spin-off, some of our executive officers and directors continue to have financial interests in shares of WDC common stock and equity awards. Specifically, each outstanding WDC equity award held by our employees at the level of vice president and above was converted into both a post-separation WDC award relating to shares of WDC common stock and a Sandisk award relating to shares of our common stock at the time of separation. Continuing ownership of shares of WDC common stock and equity awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if we and WDC pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for us and WDC. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and WDC. Some contracts and other assets which needed to be transferred or assigned from WDC or its affiliates to us in connection with our spin-off from WDC required the consent of a third party. If such consent was not given, we may not be entitled to the benefit of such contracts and other assets in the future, which could adversely impact our financial condition and future results of operations. In connection with our spin-off from WDC, a number of contracts and licenses with third parties and other assets were to be transferred or assigned from (x) WDC or its affiliates to us or our subsidiaries or (y) us or our affiliates to WDC or its subsidiaries. However, the transfer or assignment of certain of these contracts, licenses or assets may still require the consent of a third party to such a transfer or assignment. Similarly, in some circumstances, we and another business unit of WDC are joint beneficiaries of contracts, and we or WDC will need to (x) enter into a new agreement with the third party to replicate the existing contract, (y) be assigned and delegated the portion of the existing contract related to the applicable business or (z) use commercially reasonable efforts to provide for an alternative arrangement to obtain the same or reasonably similar benefits and burdens of the applicable portion of the existing contract. It is possible that some parties may use the requirement of a consent or the fact that the spin-off occurred to seek more favorable contractual terms from us, to terminate the contract or license or to otherwise request additional accommodations, commitments or other agreements from us. If we are unable to obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms or if the contracts are terminated, we may be unable to obtain the benefits, assets and contractual commitments which are intended to be allocated to us as part of our spin-off from WDC. The failure to timely complete the assignment of existing contracts, licenses or assets, or the negotiation of new arrangements, or a termination of any of those arrangements, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and future results of operations. To the extent we require a specific arrangement and agree to less favorable terms in connection with obtaining any consent to retain that arrangement, the basis for that arrangement may be less favorable than previously held by us and could adversely impact our financial conditions and future results of operations. In addition, where we do not intend to obtain consent from third-party counterparties based on our belief that no consent was required, the third-party counterparties may challenge the transfer of assets on the basis that the terms of the applicable commercial arrangements required the third-party counterparties consent. We may incur substantial litigation and other costs in connection with any such claims and, if we do not prevail, our ability to use these assets could be materially and adversely impacted. 31 Table of Contents We may be unable to implement, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Changes in our personnel and systems in connection with the separation, including the allocation of key employees between us and WDC and the separation of key systems, has and may continue to result in loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. To operate as an independent company, we rely on WDC to provide certain transitional services for a certain amount of time post-separation, allowing us to benefit from the continuation of certain services and cost efficiencies in sharing certain resources and personnel, including with respect to the functionality and reliability of our information technology systems. During this post-separation transitional period, we continue to execute our transformation strategy, including the establishment of standalone financial, administrative, governance, public company compliance and other similar organizations and systems, to replace services and personnel historically provided to us by WDC. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement these updates on a timely or cost-effective basis. Failure to effectively implement the post-separation initiatives, integrate new governance structures, implement sufficient internal controls and corporate policies, fully develop standalone teams and align stakeholder expectations may result in operational disruptions, regulatory non-compliance, weakened stakeholder relationships, reputational harm, loss of business opportunities, and our inability to realize anticipated financial and strategic benefits. Additionally, we are in the process of transitioning to a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The efforts to transition to an updated ERP system are costly and could introduce new quality and cybersecurity issues into our systems. Our failure to successfully transition to a new information system could harm our ability to meet our reporting obligations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for you to resell the common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: our business profile, market capitalization or capital allocation policies may not fit the investment objectives of pre-spin-off WDC stockholders, causing a shift in our investor base and our common stock may not be included in some indices in which WDC common stock is included, causing certain holders to sell their shares our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates our ability to meet our forward looking guidance the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies overall market fluctuations and domestic and worldwide economic conditions, including adverse geopolitical conditions and other factors described in these Risk Factors and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. In addition, investors may have difficulty accurately valuing our common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Investors may find it difficult to find comparable companies and to accurately value our common stock, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market price of our common stock. Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws each contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: provisions regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors and the filling of director vacancies no cumulative voting 32 Table of Contents removal of directors either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the stockholders then entitled to vote at an election of directors having a majority of the voting power of the Company our board of directors has the authority to determine designations and the powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including, without limitation, the dividend rate, conversion rights, redemption price and liquidation preference, of any series of shares of preferred stock, and to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, and to increase or decrease the number of shares of any such series (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) advance notice requirements applicable to stockholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings and our bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws may be adopted, (i) by our board of directors, by vote of a majority of the number of directors then in office as directors, acting at any duly called and held meeting of our board of directors, or (ii) by our stockholders provided that notice of such proposed amendment, modification, repeal or adoption is given in the notice of special meeting. To the extent permitted by law, any bylaws made or altered by the stockholders may be altered or repealed by either our board of directors or the stockholders. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so, even if the transaction is considered favorable to stockholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or a change in our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. Section 203 of the DGCL protects publicly traded Delaware corporations, such as us following the distribution, from hostile takeovers and from actions following a hostile takeover, by prohibiting some transactions once a potential acquirer has gained a significant holding in the corporation. Subject to certain exceptions, the statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless: prior to such date, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder), those shares owned by (i) persons who are directors and also officers and (ii) employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer) or on or after such date the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. For purposes of Section 203 of the DGCL, a business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, with an interested stockholder being defined as a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and did own within three years prior to the date of determination whether the person is an interested stockholder) 15% or more of the corporations voting stock. A corporation may elect not to be governed by Section 203 of the DGCL. Neither our certificate of incorporation nor our bylaws contains the election not to be governed by Section 203 of the DGCL. Therefore, we are governed by Section 203 of the DGCL. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 33 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation contains an exclusive forum provision that could limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for such disputes and may discourage lawsuits against us and any of our directors, officers or other employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or the federal district court in the State of Delaware if the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former director, officer or other employee or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine (the Delaware Exclusive Forum Provision). Our certificate of incorporation further provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the U.S. shall be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act (the Federal Forum Provision). The Delaware Exclusive Forum Provision is intended to apply to claims arising under Delaware state law and would not apply to claims brought pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. In addition, the Federal Forum Provision is intended to apply to claims arising under the Securities Act and would not apply to claims brought pursuant to the Exchange Act. The exclusive forum provisions we included in our certificate of incorporation will not relieve us of our duties to comply with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder and, accordingly, actions by our stockholders to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder must be brought in federal courts. Our stockholders are not deemed to have waived our compliance with these laws, rules and regulations. The exclusive forum provisions we included in our certificate of incorporation may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with the company or its directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. In addition, stockholders who do bring a claim in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware pursuant to the Delaware Exclusive Forum Provision could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Delaware. The court in the designated forum under our exclusive forum provisions may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. Further, the enforceability of similar exclusive forum provisions in other companies organizational documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find any of our exclusive forum provisions to be inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings. If a court were to find all or any part of our exclusive forum provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we might incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. Tax matters may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Changes in tax laws in the United States, the European Union and around the globe have impacted and will continue to impact our effective worldwide tax rate, which may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Further, the majority of countries in the G20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have agreed to adopt a two-pillar approach to taxation, which includes the implementation of a global corporate minimum tax rate of 15%, which when effective could materially increase our tax obligations in these countries. The leaders of the G7 have agreed to work to eliminate the impact of the Undertaxed Profit Rule (UTPR) and the Income Inclusion Rule (IIR) on U.S. parented companies, which we expect would partially reduce our global tax complexity and exposure, however, the Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-Up Taxes (QDMTT) are not expected to be included in such exemption and mitigation efforts. Due to the large scale of our U.S. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities, including cash movements, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our business. Depending on our operating results, these changes can materially impact our effective tax rate and our operating cash flows. Additionally, portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. Although these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. If the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. Our determination of our tax liability in the U.S. and other jurisdictions is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in litigation or the payment of significant amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may harm our business. 34 Table of Contents Provisions in our joint venture agreements with Kioxia may deter, prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the market price of our common stock and limit our future strategic opportunities. The joint venture agreements with Kioxia contain provisions that may deter, prevent or delay third parties from acquiring us. These provisions include, among others: restrictions limiting our ability and the ability of any of our affiliates to manufacture or have a third party fabricate flash memory outside of Flash Ventures Yokkaichi and Kitakami facilities restrictions limiting our ability and the ability of any of our affiliates to fabricate flash memory beyond our share of Flash Ventures manufacturing capacity and restrictions limiting our ability to transfer equity in the Flash Ventures entities or their assets, particularly partial transfers. If we nevertheless wanted to pursue a transaction providing for our acquisition by a third party, the provisions in our joint venture agreements with Kioxia could deter, prevent or delay a potential acquiror from pursuing such a transaction, even if the transaction is considered favorable to our stockholders. We may seek a waiver of applicable provisions of the joint venture agreements from Kioxia or Kioxias consent with respect to such a transaction, but there is no guarantee that we will successfully obtain Kioxias consent or waiver. The provisions in our joint venture agreements with Kioxia could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from future strategic transactions, including an acquisition of Sandisk and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy At Sandisk, our management team is charged with managing risk and bringing to our Board of Directors attention all material risk exposures to our company. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) process is designed to facilitate the identification, assessment, management, reporting and monitoring of material risks our company may face over the short-term and long-term and promote regular communication with our Board of Directors and its committees regarding these risks. Through our ERM process, we have determined that the compromise, damage or interruption of our technology infrastructure, information systems or products by cybersecurity incidents is a key risk to our company that may have a material negative impact on our business. To help mitigate the potential impact of cybersecurity incidents on our business and protect against cybersecurity threats, we have established organizational structures, procedural measures and response plans that define roles and responsibilities related to cybersecurity risk management. Sandisks Information Security organization addresses cybersecurity risks with a broad spectrum of technologies, controls, and processes that focus on mitigating these risks. Our cybersecurity strategy is designed to be dynamic and adaptive to combat the rapidly-evolving cybersecurity threat landscape and is influenced by commonly leveraged frameworks such as the NIST-CSF (National Institute of Standard and Technologies Cyber Security Framework). Our program includes, but is not limited to, endpoint protection and response systems, network security protocols, electronic communications protections, vulnerability management programs, least-privilege access controls, third-party risk management procedures, workforce education and training exercises, and compliance programs. Our dedicated 24x7 Security Operations Center incorporates specialized systems and processes for handling security incidents into its regular work and operates a robust, modern security infrastructure with appropriate security sensors and event monitoring capabilities. Upon detection of a cybersecurity incident, the Security Operations Center determines the severity of the incident in accordance with a pre-established incident severity matrix, initiates the appropriate notification and escalation protocols and begins triage. Predefined severity tiers serve as a guide to match our response to each incidents determined severity or risk level. Additionally, we have established a Cyber Incident Response Plan that follows the structure of the Incident Handling Guide published by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (SP 800-61r2) and that serves as an operational guide for handling cybersecurity incidents at Sandisk. Our Cyber Incident Response Plan provides procedural and strategic guidance that is designed to be flexible enough to apply to a variety of different incidents, but also specific enough to provide guidelines for incident prevention, detection, analysis, escalation and notification, and containment, eradication and recovery. As part of our ongoing information security program, the Company utilizes periodic independent third-party experts to conduct assessments of our programs effectiveness. These experts are also leveraged to design and orchestrate tabletop exercises where multiple business functions and leadership levels navigate incident scenarios based on industry trends and relevant threats, to help determine our level of preparedness for various cybersecurity incidents. As part of our business operations, the Company engages with a number of third parties, including but not limited to, online software service providers, vendors, consultants, and partners. These third parties are analyzed based on business criticality and impact and must be cleared through a formal cybersecurity risk assessment process before being allowed to integrate with Sandisks information systems, access confidential data, or provide electronic services to members of our workforce. The Company has in the past experienced cybersecurity incidents of varying degrees involving our technology infrastructure and information systems. While these incidents have at times resulted in some disruptions to our business operations, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we do not believe that known risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incident, have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. However, we can give no assurance that we have detected or protected against all such cybersecurity incidents or threats or that we will not experience such an incident in the future. Further details about the cybersecurity risks we face are described under The compromise, damage or interruption of our technology infrastructure, information systems or products by cybersecurity incidents, data security breaches, other security problems, design defects, information system failures or other events could have a material negative impact on our business in Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 37 Table of Contents Governance The Company has implemented a governance framework related to cybersecurity that includes operational risk-mitigation practices and Board-level cybersecurity risk oversight. Our management team is charged with managing cybersecurity risk and identifying material cybersecurity risk exposures to our company and carries out this function primarily through our Information Security organization, which is led by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who has a CISO executive certification from the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon University, a bachelors degree in Electrical Engineering, over a decade of information security leadership, and over twenty years of consolidated IT leadership experience. Additionally, our Cyber Incident Response Plan discussed above calls for the establishment of a management Impact Assessment Committee, which consists of key leadership representatives from the organization and is convened on an ad hoc basis to assess the detailed business impact of a cybersecurity incident. The Impact Assessment Committee is led by our Chief Information Security Officer and includes key representatives from the Companys functional groups, including human resources, ethics and compliance, labor, privacy, internal audit, finance, communications, legal, risk and accounting. The Impact Assessment Committee receives updates and communications from the Security Operations Center on a fixed cadence determined by incident severity and follows our pre-established escalation framework to communicate with and include executive leadership, outside counsel and the Board of Directors, as appropriate. The Impact Assessment Committee works with the Companys internal and external legal counsel to determine and facilitate appropriate communications with the Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the cybersecurity risk management process and exercises this risk oversight through both our full Board of Directors and its Audit Committee. Our Board of Directors has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility to oversee risks related to cybersecurity threats, and our Audit Committee Charter requires the Audit Committee to review and discuss with management the Companys policies with respect to risk assessment and enterprise risk management and to review the risk exposure of the Company related to the Committees areas of responsibility, including with respect to cybersecurity. In carrying out this role, the Audit Committee meets with our Chief Information Security Officer regularly and receives at least quarterly reports on cybersecurity matters. Additionally, at least annually, our Chief Audit Executive, who manages the day-to-day activities of our ERM program, reports to our Board of Directors on enterprise risk assessment under our ERM program, providing updates on key risks, status of mitigation efforts and residual risk trends, including an analysis of cybersecurity risks. Also at least annually, our Chief Information Security Officer reports to the full Board of Directors on cybersecurity matters related to or impacting our company and our business. 38 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our principal executive offices are currently located at 951 Sandisk Drive, Milpitas, California 95035. Our principal manufacturing, research and development (R&D), marketing and administrative facilities as of the date of this information statement were as follows: Location Buildings Owned or Leased Approximate Square Footage Description United States California Irvine Leased 105,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales, and administrative Milpitas Leased 578,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales, and administrative Colorado Longmont Leased 31,000 Flash R&D Minnesota Rochester Leased 45,000 Flash product development Asia Korea Seoul Leased 4,000 Flash R&D China Beijing Leased 5,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales, and administrative Shanghai Leased 5,000 Flash assembly and testing Shenzhen Leased 6,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales, and administrative Taiwan Hsinchu Leased 27,000 Flash R&D Taichung Leased 6,000 Flash R&D Taipei Leased 7,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales Japan Fujisawa Owned 23,000 Flash R&D, Sales Malaysia Penang Owned 1,177,000 Flash R&D, manufacturing of media India Bangalore Owned and Leased 37,000 Flash R&D and administrative Middle East Israel Kfar Saba Owned 204,000 Flash R&D Tefen Owned 58,000 Flash R&D Omer Leased 39,000 Flash R&D Europe Prague Leased 5,000 Flash R&D, marketing and sales, and administrative We also lease office space in various other locations throughout the world primarily for R&D, sales, operations, manufacturing, administration and technical support. We believe our present facilities are adequate for our current needs, although we update our facilities from time to time to meet anticipated future technological and market requirements. Substantially all of our flash-based memory wafers are manufactured by the Flash Ventures in purpose-built, wafer fabrication facilities, that they lease, located in Yokkaichi and Kitakami, Japan. 39 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings There are no material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the company, to which we or any of our subsidiaries is a party or of which any of our or our subsidiaries property is subject. 40 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 41 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the symbol SDNK. The approximate number of holders of record of our common stock as of August 13, 2025 was 685. Dividends We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, for the operation of our business and to strengthen our financial position and flexibility. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the PHLX Semiconductor Sector (SOX) Index for the year ended June 27, 2025. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in our common stock, and the comparative indices, on February 12, 2025 (the date that the Companys stock began on a when-issued basis), and that all dividends were reinvested. Stockholder returns over the indicated period should not be considered indicative of future stockholder returns. We believe that the S&P 500 Index and the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index are appropriate indices to compare our performance with other companies in our industry. These indices are widely recognized and used, for which components and total return information are readily accessible to our security holders, to assist in their understanding of our performance relative to other companies. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN TO STOCKHOLDERS Among Sandisk, the S&P 500 Index and the PHLX Semiconductor Sector (SOX) Index (Assumes $100 investment on February 12, 2025) 42 Table of Contents Total Return Analysis February 12, 2025 June 27, 2025 Sandisk Corporation $ 100.00 $ 130.97 S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 101.49 PHLX Semiconductor Sector (SOX) Index $ 100.00 $ 108.01 The stock performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into any past or future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically request that it be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 43 Table of Contents Item 6. [Reserved] 44 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and should be read in conjunction with the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results. You should read this information in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8., of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See also Forward-Looking Statements immediately prior to Part I, Item 1., of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For managements discussion of our combined results for the year ended June 28, 2024 in comparison with the year ended June 30, 2023, and other financial information related to fiscal year 2024, refer to Item 2., Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Form 10, initially filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on November 25, 2024, and as further amended thereafter and declared effective on January 31, 2025 (as amended, the Form 10). Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. As used herein, the terms we, us, our, and the Company refer to Sandisk Corporation and its subsidiaries. Overview The Separation On October 30, 2023, Western Digital Corporation (WDC) announced that its board of directors (the WDC Board of Directors) authorized management to pursue a plan to separate the Company into an independent public company. The separation received final approval by the WDC Board of Directors and was completed on February 21, 2025. Prior to February 21, 2025, we were wholly owned by WDC. On February 21, 2025, WDC executed the spin-off of the Company through WDCs pro rata distribution of 116,035,464 or 80.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company to holders of WDCs common stock. Each WDC stockholder received one-third (1/3) of one share of the Companys common stock for each share of WDCs common stock held by such WDC stockholder as of February 12, 2025, the record date of the distribution. Upon completion of the separation, WDC owned 28,827,787 or 19.9% of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock, which WDC was expected to retain for a period of up to twelve months following the distribution. Following the distribution, the Company became an independent publicly listed company, and on February 24, 2025, the Company began trading as an independent publicly traded company under the stock symbol SNDK on Nasdaq. On June 6, 2025, WDC disposed of 21,314,768 or 14.6% of our common stock through an exchange of our common stock for WDC debt held by WDC creditors. Our Business Sandisk is a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions based on NAND flash technology. With a differentiated innovation engine driving advancements in storage and semiconductor technologies, our broad and ever-expanding portfolio delivers powerful flash storage solutions for artificial intelligence (AI) workloads in datacenters, edge devices, and consumers. Our technologies enable everyone from students, gamers and home offices to the largest enterprises and public clouds to produce, analyze, and store data. Our solutions include a broad range of solid-state drives (SSDs), embedded products, removable cards, universal serial bus drives and wafers and components. Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets of Cloud, Client, and Consumer. Through the Client end market, we provide our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and channel customers a broad array of high-performance flash solutions across personal computer, mobile, gaming, automotive, virtual reality headsets, at-home entertainment and industrial spaces. The Consumer end market is highlighted by our broad range of retail and other end-user products, which capitalizes on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast presence around the world. Cloud is comprised primarily of products for datacenters, cloud service providers, and private cloud customers. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest to June 30 and typically consists of 52 weeks. Approximately every five to six years, we report a 53-week fiscal year to align the fiscal year with the foregoing policy. Fiscal years 2025, 2024, and 2023, which ended on June 27, 2025, June 28, 2024, and June 30, 2023 are each comprised of 52 weeks, with each fiscal quarter consisting of 13 weeks. Fiscal year 2026 will be comprised of 52 weeks and end on July 3, 2026. 45 Table of Contents Sale-Leaseback In September 2023, WDC completed a sale and leaseback of its facility in Milpitas, California, and received net proceeds of $191 million in cash. A substantial majority of these assets are associated with the Company, and as a result, $134 million of the net proceeds from the sale-leaseback transaction were allocated to us on a relative square footage basis. The property is being leased back to us at a total annual rate of $16 million for the first year and increasing by 3% per year thereafter through January 1, 2039. The lease includes three five-year renewal options and one four-year renewal option that provide the ability to extend through December 2057. The associated operating lease liability and right-of-use asset for this facility have been included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 27, 2025 and June 28, 2024. SanDisk Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. (SDSS) As discussed in Part II, Item 8., Note 10, Related Parties and Related Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on September 28, 2024, prior to the separation, WDCs wholly-owned subsidiary, SanDisk China Limited (SanDisk China) completed the sale of 80% of its equity interest in SDSS (the Transaction) to JCET Management Co., Ltd. (JCET), a wholly-owned subsidiary of JCET Group Co., Ltd., a Chinese publicly listed company, thereby forming a venture between SanDisk China and JCET (the SDSS Venture). The Transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $34 million. Subsequent to and in connection with the Transaction, Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (WDT) entered into a five-year supply agreement with SDSS (the Supply Agreement) to purchase certain flash-based products with a minimum annual commitment of $550 million. On January 10, 2025, the Company and WDT entered into an assignment agreement, pursuant to which, WDT assigned all of its rights and obligations under the Supply Agreement to the Company. The Supply Agreement contains specific penalties the Company must pay if SDSS fails to meet its minimum annual commitment. The Supply Agreement also provides that if SDSS purchases exceed the minimum annual commitment in any of the two years immediately succeeding any annual period where a shortfall penalty has been paid, SDSS shall reimburse the Company an amount not exceeding the previously paid penalty amount. The Supply Agreement expires on September 28, 2029, and automatically renews for additional one-year terms unless earlier terminated by either of the parties. The Company also entered into an agreement to grant SDSS certain intellectual property rights on a royalty-free basis for use in manufacturing products on the Companys behalf for the term of and under the Supply Agreement. As a result of the Transaction, we expect to incur a modest reduction in annual operating expenses and a reduction in annual capital expenditure related to the assembly and testing of flash-based products. We also anticipate that the transition to a contract manufacturing model through the SDSS Venture will result in a small increase in our annual cost of revenue for flash-based products. Goodwill Impairment As discussed in Part II, Item 8., Note 5, Supplemental Financial Statement Dataof the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent to the separation, we conducted a quantitative analysis of potential goodwill and long-lived assets impairments, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No. 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. This analysis indicated that the estimated carrying value of our reporting unit exceeded its fair value. Consequently, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.8 billion during the third quarter of the fiscal year endedJune 27, 2025. Our policy is to perform an annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth fiscal quarter. For the year ended June 27, 2025, we performed a qualitative analysis which did not indicate that goodwill was more-likely-than-not impaired. As a result, no additional quantitative analysis was required and no additional impairment charge was recorded during the fiscal year ended June 27, 2025. Financing Activities Prior to the separation, we received financing from certain of WDCs subsidiaries in the form of borrowings under revolving credit agreements and promissory notes to fund activities primarily related to Flash Ventures. Additional information regarding our outstanding notes due to (from) Western Digital Corporation is included in Part II, Item 8., Note 10, Related Parties and Related Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in Part II, Item 8., Note 8, Debt of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on February 21, 2025, we entered into a loan agreement comprised of a seven-year Term Loan B facility in an aggregate principal amount of $2.0 billion (the Term Loan Facility) and a five-year revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion with $150 million available for letters of credit. 46 Table of Contents On February 21, 2025, we borrowed $2.0 billion under the Term Loan Facility. We used a portion of the proceeds of the borrowing to make a net distribution payment of approximately $1.5 billion to WDC, with the remainder to be used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of June 27, 2025, we have drawn no amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility. Operational Update In 2025, we generally saw an improvement in the supply and demand dynamics, leading to improved revenues and gross margin in fiscal 2025 compared to 2024. As part of our actions to align supply with market demand in the later half of fiscal 2025, we incurred charges for unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs due to reduced utilization of our manufacturing capacity totaling $75 million, and we anticipate incurring some underutilization charges as we moderate production levels to align with demand for our products in the first quarter of 2026. Additionally, in 2025, the U.S. announced changes to U.S. trade policy, including increased tariffs on imported goods. Currently, the majority of our products sold in the U.S. are exempt from tariffs, but additional tariff increases, or the loss of applicable exemptions would increase the cost of goods sold for our products sold in the U.S., which could negatively impact our margins and financial performance. Increases in the price of our products in response to increased costs may adversely impact demand for those products in the U.S., which could also negatively impact our performance and financial results. Future trade policies and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, the terms of any trade arrangements that may be negotiated between the U.S. and other countries, the scope, amount, or duration of tariffs that may be imposed by any country, and the impact of these factors on our business are uncertain and may contribute to increased costs and reduced demand for our products, each of which could harm our financial performance. With regard to technological advances, we anticipate that digital transformation, including the AI data-cycle, will drive improved market conditions in the long term for our data storage products. We will continue to actively monitor developments impacting our business and may take additional responsive actions that we determine to be in the best interest of our business and stakeholders. Basis of Presentation On February 21, 2025, we became a standalone publicly traded company, and our financial statements are now presented on a consolidated basis. Prior to the separation, our historical financial statements were derived from WDCs consolidated financial statements and accounting records and prepared as if we existed on a standalone basis. The financial statements for all periods presented, including our historical results prior to February 21, 2025, are now referred to as Consolidated Financial Statements and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The following discussion reflects our financial condition and results of operations as set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Consolidated Statements of Operations include all revenues and costs directly attributable to us, including costs for facilities, functions, and services used by us. Prior to the separation, our business had historically functioned together with the other businesses controlled by WDC. Accordingly, we relied on WDCs corporate overhead and other support functions. Therefore, certain corporate overhead and shared costs were allocated to us including (i) certain general and administrative expenses related to WDCs support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within WDC (e.g., expenses for corporate facilities, executive oversight, treasury, finance, legal, human resources, compliance, information technology, employee benefit plans, stock compensation plans and other corporate functions), and (ii) certain operations support costs incurred by WDC, including product sourcing, maintenance and support services, and other supply chain functions. These expenses were specifically identified, when possible, or allocated based on revenues, headcount, usage or other allocation methods that are considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or benefit received. While management considers that such allocations were made on a reasonable basis consistent with benefits received, the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not be indicative of our future performance, do not necessarily include the actual expenses that would have been incurred by us and may not reflect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows had we been a separate, standalone company during the periods presented. For additional information, see Part II, Item 8., Note 1, Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations Overview The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, selected summary information from our Consolidated Statements of Operations by dollars and percentage of net revenue(1): 2025 2024 2023 (in millions, except percentages) Revenue, net $ 7,355 100.0 % $ 6,663 100.0 % $ 6,086 100.0 % Cost of revenue 5,143 69.9 5,591 83.9 5,656 92.9 Gross profit 2,212 30.1 1,072 16.1 430 7.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 1,132 15.4 1,061 15.9 1,167 19.2 Selling, general and administrative 573 7.8 455 6.8 558 9.2 Goodwill impairment 1,830 24.9 671 11.0 Business separation costs 67 0.9 64 1.0 Employee termination and other 21 0.3 (40) (0.6) 69 1.1 Gain on business divestiture (34) (0.5) Total operating expenses 3,589 48.8 1,540 23.1 2,465 40.5 Operating income (loss) (1,377) (18.7) (468) (7.0) (2,035) (33.4) Interest and other income (expense), net: Interest income 22 0.3 12 0.2 21 0.3 Interest expense (63) (0.9) (40) (0.6) (31) (0.5) Other income (expense), net (61) (0.8) (7) (0.1) 43 0.7 Total interest and other income (expense), net (102) (1.4) (35) (0.5) 33 0.5 Income (loss) before taxes (1,479) (20.1) (503) (7.5) (2,002) (32.9) Income tax expense 162 2.2 169 2.5 141 2.3 Net income (loss) $ (1,641) (22.3) % $ (672) (10.0) % $ (2,143) (35.2) % (1) Percentage may not total due to rounding. The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, summary information regarding our disaggregated revenue: 2025 2024 2023 (in millions) Revenue by end market: Cloud $ 960 $ 325 $ 500 Client 4,127 4,069 3,637 Consumer 2,268 2,269 1,949 Total revenue $ 7,355 $ 6,663 $ 6,086 Revenue by geography: Asia $ 4,457 $ 4,510 $ 3,890 Americas 1,618 1,095 1,266 Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,280 1,058 930 Total revenue $ 7,355 7355000000 $ 6,663 $ 6,086 48 Table of Contents Our broad portfolio of technology and products addresses multiple end markets. Cloud represents a large and growing end market comprised primarily of products for public or private cloud environments and enterprise customers. Through the Client end market, we provide our OEM and channel customers a broad array of high-performance flash solutions across personal computer, mobile, gaming, automotive, virtual reality headsets, at-home entertainment, and industrial spaces. The Consumer end market is highlighted by our broad range of retail and other end-user products, which capitalize on the strength of our product brand recognition and vast points of presence around the world. Net Revenue Net revenue increased 10%, or $692 million, in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a 6% increase in exabytes sold due to stronger demand in our Cloud end market and a 4% increase in average selling prices (ASP) per gigabyte due to enhanced pricing as the supply-demand balance improved. Cloud revenue increased 195%, or $635 million, in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a 153% increase in exabytes sold due to increased enterprise SSD shipments to data center customers and a 17% increase in ASP per gigabyte due to improved pricing. Client revenue increased 1%, or $58 million, in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to an 8% increase in ASP per gigabyte, partially offset by a 7% decrease in exabytes sold. Consumer revenue decreased $1 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a 6% increase in exabytes sold, offset by a 7% decrease in ASP per gigabyte due to pricing pressure. The changes in net revenue by geography in 2025 compared to 2024 primarily reflected higher revenue in the Americas region from Cloud customers. Consistent with standard industry practice, we offer sales incentives and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as reductions of gross revenue. For 2025, 2024 and 2023, these programs represented 19%, 19%, and 21%, respectively, of gross revenues. The amounts attributed to our sales incentive and marketing programs generally vary according to several factors, including industry conditions, list pricing strategies, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of products. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to adjust our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit increased $1,140 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to improved pricing, a favorable product mix, a decrease in manufacturing underutilization charges incurred in 2025 compared to the comparable prior year period, and a $54 million write-down of Flash inventory in 2024 as a result of decreases in market pricing, for which a similar charge was not incurred in 2025, partially offset by $36 million of insurance recoveries received during 2024 for losses incurred due to a contamination incident in 2022. In 2024, we recognized a $252 million charge due to reduced manufacturing capacity utilization, compared to an underutilization charge of $75 million incurred in 2025. Gross profit margin increased 14% in 2025 compared to 2024, with approximately 10% driven by higher revenue due to improved pricing, higher demand for our offerings, and favorable product mix and the remaining 4% due to the decrease in manufacturing underutilization charges incurred in 2025 and a write-down of Flash inventory in 2024 for which a similar charge was not incurred in the current period. Operating Expenses Research and development (R&D) expenses increased $71 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a $32 million increase in compensation and benefits mainly due to higher variable compensation which includes short-term incentives, an $18 million increase in spending for R&D projects, a $15 million increase in material purchases, and a $5 million increase in legal and outside service fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $118 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to an $84 million increase in compensation and benefits due to higher variable compensation which includes short-term incentives, a $24 million increase in materials, a$16 million increase in legal service fees, and a $14 million increase in sales and marketing expenses, partially offset by a $20 million decrease in strategic review costs incurred in 2024 for which there are no comparable costs in the current year. Employee termination and other charges decreased $61 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a $60 million gain on the sale-leaseback of a facility in the prior period, for which there is no comparable transaction in 2025. For additional information regarding employee termination and other charges, see Part II, Item 8., Note 15, Employee Termination and Other Charges of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 49 Table of Contents Goodwill impairment Goodwill impairment increased $1.8 billion in 2025 compared to 2024 due to an impairment charge resulting from the difference between the carrying value of our reporting unit and its fair value. Business separation costs Business separation costs increased $3 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to the completion of the separation from WDC. Gain on business divestiture Gain on business divestiture increased $34 million in 2025 compared to 2024 due to the pre-tax gain on the sale of SDSS. Interest and Other Expense, net Interest and other expense, net increased $67 million in 2025 compared to 2024, primarily due to a $56 million increase in interest expense from our Loan Agreement, a $37 million increase in losses on our equity method investments, and a $24 million increase in foreign exchange losses, partially offset by a $28 million decrease in interest expense on borrowings due to WDC, a $15 million increase in interest income due to an increase in available cash, and a $7 million increase in interest income arising from the accretion of the present value discount on the outstanding SDSS sale consideration receivable. Income Tax Expense H.R.1, more widely known as the Big Beautiful Bill Act, was recently signed into law on July 4, 2025. It reversed the requirement for capitalization of U.S. research and development expenditures that came into law under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, but the mandatory requirement of capitalization of foreign research and development expenditures remains. The tax rates for income earned by our foreign subsidiaries will also be changed under H.R. 1. Depending on our operating results, these changes can materially impact our effective tax rate and reduce our operating cash flows. As H.R.1 was enacted after our fiscal year 2025, its impact on the tax provision will be reflected in fiscal year 2026. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was signed into law, which contained significant changes to laws related to tax, climate, energy, and health care. The tax measures include, among other things, a corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) of 15% on corporations with three-year average annual adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) exceeding $1.0 billion. We do not expect to be subject to the CAMT of 15% for 2025 as our average annual AFSI did not exceed $1.0 billion for the preceding three-year period. On December 20, 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting released Model Global Anti-Base Erosion rules under Pillar Two (Pillar Two). Several non-U.S. jurisdictions have either enacted legislation or announced their intention to enact future legislation to adopt certain or all components of Pillar Two, some of which are effective for us in 2025. For 2025, we currently expect to be able to meet certain transitional safe harbors and do not expect any material Pillar Two taxes. As more jurisdictions adopt this legislation in 2026, there may be material increases in our future tax obligations in certain jurisdictions. The following table presents our Income tax expense and the effective tax rate: 2025 2024 2023 (in millions) Income (loss) before taxes $ (1,479) $ (503) $ (2,002) Income tax expense 162 169 141 Effective tax rate (11) % (34) % (7) % The relative mix of earnings and losses by jurisdiction, the goodwill impairment, the foreign income inclusion, credits, and tax holidays in Malaysia that will expire at various dates during years 2028 through 2031 resulted in decreases to the effective tax rate below the U.S. statutory rate for the years ended June 27, 2025. For additional information regarding income tax expense, see Part II, Item 8., Note 14, Income Tax Expense of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 50 Table of Contents Financial condition, liquidity and capital resources The following table summarizes our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: 2025 2024 2023 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 84 $ (309) $ (713) Investing activities 556 210 (189) Financing activities 518 136 860 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (5) (1) (1) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,153 $ 36 $ (43) In alignment with market conditions, we have maintained a conservative capital expenditure strategy for 2025 and 2024. For fiscal year 2026, we anticipate increased capital investments as we transition to newer nodes to meet the demand and technology needs of our product portfolio. We believe our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for at least the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. We believe we can also access the various capital markets to further supplement our liquidity position if necessary. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Part I, Item 1A.,Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A total of $692 million and $321 million of our cash and cash equivalents were held outside of the U.S. as of June 27, 2025 and June 28, 2024 respectively. There are no material tax consequences that were not previously accrued for the repatriation of this cash. Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities. Operating Activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities primarily consists of net income or loss, adjusted for non-cash charges, plus or minus changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash used as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities was $380 million for 2025, compared to $86 million net cash provided for 2024, reflecting an increase in the volume of our business, as discussed above. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities are largely affected by our working capital requirements, which are dependent on the volume of our business and the effective management of our cash conversion cycle as well as timing of payments for taxes. Our cash conversion cycle measures how quickly we can convert our products into cash through sales. The cash conversion cycles were as follows (in days): 2025 2024 2023 Days sales outstanding 51 48 35 Days in inventory 135 158 134 Days payable outstanding (50) (54) (37) Cash conversion cycle 136 152 132 Changes in days sales outstanding, or DSO, are generally due to the timing of shipments. Changes in days in inventory, or DIO, are generally related to the timing of inventory builds. Changes in days payable outstanding, or DPO, are generally related to production volume and the timing of purchases during the period. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make payment term modifications through negotiations with our vendors or by granting to or receiving from our vendors payment term accommodations. In 2025, DSO increased 3 days when compared to the prior year, reflecting lower accounts receivable factoring and the timing of shipments and customer collections. DIO decreased 23 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting greater consumption of inventory. DPO decreased 4 days over the prior year, primarily due to routine variations in the timing of purchases and payments. 51 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities in 2025 primarily consisted of $401 million in net proceeds from our sale of a majority interest in one of our subsidiaries and $358 million in net proceeds from activity related to Flash Ventures, partially offset by $204 million in capital expenditures. Net cash provided by investing activities in 2024 primarily consisted of $239 million in net proceeds from activity related to Flash Ventures and $137 million of proceeds from the sale-leaseback of our Milpitas, California facility, partially offset by $166 million in capital expenditures. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities in 2025 primarily consisted of $1,970 million in proceeds from borrowings from the Term Loan Facility, $550 million in proceeds from borrowings on notes due to WDC, and $101 million in proceeds from principal repayments on notes due from WDC, partially offset by $1,887 million transferred to WDC, $100 million in repayment on the Term Loan Facility, and $76 million in net repayments on notes due to WDC. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2024 primarily consisted of $394 million in net transfers from WDC, partially offset by $170 million in origination of notes due from WDC and $102 million in net repayments on notes due to WDC. A discussion of our cash flows for 2024, including a comparison of such cash flows to 2023, is included in Item 2., Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the Flash Ventures and SDSS-related commitments incurred in the normal course of businessand certain indemnification provisions (see Short-and-Long-term Liquidity - Purchase Obligations and Other Commitments below), we do not have any other material off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any other obligations arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, with the exception of Flash Ventures, the SDSS Venture and the Unis Venture, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any variable interest entities. For additional information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Part II, Item 8., Note 10, Related Parties and Related Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Short-and-Long-term Liquidity Material Cash Requirements The following is a summary of our known material cash requirements, including those for capital expenditures, as of June 27, 2025. In addition, see the discussions further below related to unrecognized tax benefits, foreign exchange contracts and indemnifications. Total 1 year (2026) 2-3 Years (2027-2028) 4-5 Years (2029-2030) More than 5 Years (Beyond 2030) (in millions) Long-term debt, including current portion (1) $ 1,900 $ 20 $ 40 $ 40 $ 1,800 Interest on debt 905 143 276 267 219 Flash Ventures related commitments(2) 4,539 2,226 1,583 667 63 Operating leases 331 41 63 44 183 Purchase obligations and other commitments 2,633 250 1,153 1,140 90 Total $ 10,308 $ 2,680 $ 3,115 $ 2,158 $ 2,355 (1) Principal portion of debt, excluding issuance costs. (2) Includes reimbursement for depreciation and lease payments on owned and committed equipment, funding commitments for loans and equity investments and payments for other committed expenses, including R&D and building depreciation. Funding commitments assume no additional operating lease guarantees. Additional operating lease guarantees can reduce funding commitments. 52 Table of Contents Debt In connection with the separation, on February 21, 2025, we entered into a loan agreement (the Loan Agreement) comprised of a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, on which no amounts have been drawn, and a $2.0 billion term loan facility due in 2032. The Company used a portion of the proceeds received from the term loan facility, as well as cash on hand, to make a net distribution payment of $1.5 billion to WDC in exchange for assets, liabilities and certain legal entities of WDC associated with the Company. As of June 27, 2025, we were in compliance with the Loan Agreement financial covenant that requires us to maintain a maximum Leverage Ratio. Additional information regarding our indebtedness, including information about availability under our revolving credit facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants, collateral and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness, is included in Part II, Item 8., Note 8, Debt of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Flash Ventures Flash Ventures sells to, and leases back from, a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements, of which we guarantee half of all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The leases are subject to customary covenants and cancellation events that relate to Flash Ventures and each of the guarantors. The occurrence of a cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the lease obligations and a call on our guarantees. As of June 27, 2025, and as of June 28, 2024, we were in compliance with all covenants under these Japanese lease facilities. See Part II, Item 8., Note 10, Related Parties and Related Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding Flash Ventures. Purchase Obligations and Other Commitments In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. We also enter into long-term agreements with suppliers that contain fixed future commitments, which are contingent on certain conditions such as performance, quality and technology of the vendors components. These arrangements are included under Purchase obligations and other commitments in the table above. Unrecognized Tax Benefits As of June 27, 2025, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $140 million. Accrued interest and penalties included in the Companys liability related to unrecognized tax benefits as of June 27, 2025 and June 28, 2024 was $11 million and $9 million, respectively. Of these amounts, approximately $138 million could result in potential cash payments. Foreign Exchange Contracts We purchase foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A.,