ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Years ended January 3, 2016 % of Revenue December 28, 2014 % of Revenue December 29, 2013 % of Revenue (In millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 5,564.9 100 % $ 6,627.7 100 % $ 6,170.0 100 % Cost of revenue 3,196.6 57 % 3,459.0 52 % 3,253.0 53 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 111.2 2 % 100.9 2 % 49.5 1 % Total cost of revenue 3,307.8 59 % 3,559.9 54 % 3,302.5 54 % Gross profit 2,257.1 41 % 3,067.8 46 % 2,867.5 46 % Operating expenses: Research and development 883.2 16 % 852.3 13 % 742.3 12 % Sales and marketing 387.4 7 % 383.3 6 % 276.3 5 % General and administrative 174.1 3 % 214.9 3 % 192.3 3 % Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 53.4 1 % 26.4 % 11.2 % Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 61.0 1 % % 83.2 1 % Restructuring and other 53.3 1 % 33.0 % % Western Digital acquisition-related expenses 28.1 1 % % % Total operating expenses 1,640.5 30 % 1,509.9 22 % 1,305.3 21 % Operating income 616.6 11 % 1,557.9 24 % 1,562.2 25 % Other income (expense), net (87.0 ) (1 %) (68.9 ) (2 %) (46.1 ) % Income before income taxes 529.6 10 % 1,489.0 22 % 1,516.1 25 % Provision for income taxes 141.1 3 % 481.6 7 % 473.4 8 % Net income $ 388.5 7 % $ 1,007.4 15 % $ 1,042.7 17 % Fiscal years presented included 53 weeks in 2015 and 52 weeks in 2014 and 2013 . General We are a global leader in NAND flash storage solutions. We sell our products globally to commercial and retail customers. We design, develop and manufacture data storage solutions in a variety of form factors using flash memory, controller, firmware and software technologies. Our solutions include SSDs, embedded and removable products, and wafers and components. Our SSD products are used in both client computing platforms and enterprise data centers and provide high-speed, high-capacity storage solutions that can be used in lieu of hard disk drives. Our embedded flash products are used in mobile phones, tablets, notebooks, computing platforms, imaging devices, and many other applications. Our removable products include cards, USB drives, wireless media drives, digital media players, and other storage devices. Our cards and USB drives are used in a wide range of applications such as mobile phones, tablets, digital cameras, gaming devices, PCs, automobiles and many other products. Pending Acquisition by Western Digital Corporation On October 21, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement under which Western Digital will acquire all of our outstanding shares for a combination of cash and stock. We expect the transaction, which is subject to stockholder and regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions, to be completed in the second quarter of 2016. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report and Note 1 , Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Pending Acquisition by Western Digital Corporation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. 47 Table of Contents Business and Technology We have a deep understanding of the technology used in the design, manufacture and operation of NAND flash and have invented many of the key NAND flash technologies and solutions. We strive to continuously reduce the cost of NAND flash in order to continue to grow our markets, supply a diverse set of customers and channels, and enable us to profitably grow our business. A key component of our ability to reduce the cost of NAND flash is our ability to continue to transition our NAND flash manufacturing technology to smaller geometries. We have transitioned a majority of our NAND manufacturing capacity to the 15-nanometer node (also referred to as 1Z-nanometer ), and we expect the 15-nanometer node to be our last technology node on 2D NAND flash architecture. We have begun initial production of our 48-layer X3 3D NAND technology and shipped initial quantities of retail products and OEM samples using this technology in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2016, we began utilizing the New Fab 2 facility for the conversion of 2D NAND to 3D NAND technology, and we expect production wafer output late in the first quarter of 2016. With our manufacturing and technology partner, Toshiba, we are also investing in 3D ReRAM technology, which we believe may be a future alternative to NAND. In addition, we are also collaborating with HPE on the further development of 3D ReRAM for use in Storage Class Memory applications. We expect 2D NAND, 3D NAND and potential future technologies, including 3D ReRAM, to co-exist for an extended period of time. Through our investments in our ventures with Toshiba and our in-house assembly and test facilities, we have invested heavily in a vertically integrated business model. We purchase substantially all of our NAND flash supply requirements through Flash Ventures, our significant venture relationships with Toshiba, which produce and provide us with leadingedge, high-quality, low-cost NAND flash wafers. While substantially all of our flash memory supply is purchased from Flash Ventures, from time-to-time, we also purchase flash memory from other NAND flash manufacturers. While we do not unilaterally control the operations of Flash Ventures, we believe that our vertically integrated business model helps us to reduce the costs of producing our products, increases our ability to control the quality of our products and speeds delivery to our customers. Our vertically integrated manufacturing operations are concentrated in three locations, with Flash Ventures located in Yokkaichi, Japan, and our in-house assembly and test operations located in Shanghai, China and Penang, Malaysia. We also utilize third-party contract manufacturers in China, Malaysia, Taiwan and the U.S. Most of our products are made by combining NAND flash memory with a controller and firmware, and many of our SSD solutions incorporate software. We use controllers which we have designed in-house as well as controllers purchased from third parties. Our controllers that are designed in-house are manufactured at third-party foundries. The vast majority of our products use firmware that is developed in-house . Our revenue is derived from two sales channels, the Commercial sales channel and the Retail sales channel. Commercial channel sales are made directly and through distributors to OEMs, system integrators and value-added resellers who bundle, embed or integrate our data storage solutions, and directly to enterprise and hyperscale customers. Our Commercial revenue also includes license and royalty revenue related to our IP. Retail channel sales are made directly to retail customers and indirectly through distributors to retail customers. 48 Table of Contents Industry and Company Trends We operate in an industry characterized by rapid technology transitions and evolving end-user markets for NAND flash. We believe that over the next several years, the largest growth areas for NAND flash will be SSD solutions for the enterprise and hyperscale data center and client computing markets. Within the market for mobile and connected applications, we expect long-term growth in the adoption of smartphones and other mobile devices, as well as increasing storage capacity in these devices, to continue to drive increasing NAND flash storage demand. In addition, we expect to see growth in the usage of NAND flash memory in new applications, such as automobiles, connected homes and industrial applications. We expect the market for removable NAND flash memory solutions in consumer electronics, such as imaging devices and USB drives, to modestly decline over the next several years. We continue to focus on adapting our business to the changing end markets for NAND flash and aligning our resources accordingly. Our expectations for the industry and SanDisk include: We estimate that industry supply bit growth was in the mid-forties percent range in 2015 and our supply bit growth in the same period was 51%. For 2016, we estimate that the industry supply bit growth will be in the low thirties percent range, and our supply bit growth will be somewhat lower than the industry average. We expect 3D NAND to represent about 15% to 20% of industry wafer capacity exiting 2016 and we expect our 3D capacity to be at the lower end of the industry range exiting 2016. We expect our reduction in cost per gigabyte in 2016 to be less than the 27% cost per gigabyte reduction we achieved in 2015 due to: the volume of wafers transitioning to new technology nodes will be less in 2016 than in 2015, and we do not expect our 3D technology to generate cost reduction in 2016 compared to our highly cost efficient 15-nanometer 2D technology; we expect to incur start-up costs in New Fab 2 throughout 2016 as we ramp 3D NAND production; and our cost reduction in 2015 benefited from a weakening Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate. The majority of our NAND manufacturing capacity is producing our 15-nanometer 2D NAND technology. As part of our efforts to continuously reduce the cost of NAND flash, we continue to develop our 3D NAND architecture. We have begun initial production of our 48-layer X3 3D NAND technology and shipped initial quantities of retail products and OEM samples using this technology in the fourth quarter of 2015. Based upon public announcements, our competitors are in various stages of development and commercialization of their 3D NAND technologies, including shipping products or samples based on 3D NAND. At this time, these technologies are still emerging and it is unclear how these new technologies will compare to our 3D NAND technology and what implications other 3D NAND approaches may have for our industry or our business in terms of cost leadership, technology leadership, supply increases and product specifications. We believe that our 15-nanometer 2D NAND is highly cost competitive within the industry and is capable of addressing a broad range of market opportunities. We are also investing in 3D ReRAM technology, which we believe may be a viable alternative to NAND flash memory in the future. We expect 2D NAND, 3D NAND and potential future technologies, including 3D ReRAM, to co-exist for an extended period of time. 49 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Mix by Channel (1) . 2015 2014 2013 Revenue Percent of Total Revenue Percent of Total Revenue Percent of Total (In millions, except percentages) Commercial (2) $ 3,534.4 64 % $ 4,454.9 67 % $ 3,907.3 63 % Retail 2,030.5 36 % 2,172.8 33 % 2,262.7 37 % Total revenue $ 5,564.9 100 % $ 6,627.7 100 % $ 6,170.0 100 % (1) Revenue by channel is calculated based on analysis of the information we collect in our sales reporting processes. (2) Commercial includes revenue from OEMs, system integrators, value-added resellers, direct sales, and license and royalties. The 16% decrease in our revenue for 2015 , compared to 2014 , reflected a 34% decline in the blended average selling price per gigabyte, partially offset by a 26% increase in the number of gigabytes sold. Changes in our revenue by channel for 2015 , compared to 2014 , are as follows: the decrease in our Commercial revenue was primarily related to a client SSD program at a large customer ending for us in the first quarter of 2015. In addition, our Commercial revenue declined from embedded and removable products, as well as wafers and components. These declines were partially offset by higher revenue from enterprise solutions, and license and royalties; and the decrease in our Retail revenue was driven by removable products, for which the impact of price declines exceeded unit growth, partially offset by higher sales of client SSD solutions. The 7% increase in 2014 revenue, compared to 2013 revenue, reflected a 36% increase in the number of gigabytes sold, partially offset by a 22% decline in the blended average selling price per gigabyte. Changes in our revenue by channel for 2014, compared to 2013, are as follows: The increase in our Commercial revenue is primarily related to higher sales of client and enterprise SSDs, partially offset by a decline in sales of embedded products. The decrease in our Retail revenue was primarily driven by lower sales of imaging cards and USB drives, partially offset by increased sales of cards for mobile devices. 50 Table of Contents Revenue Mix by Category (1) . 2015 2014 2013 (Percent of revenue) Removable (2) 40 % 38 % 43 % Embedded (3) 24 % 22 % 27 % Enterprise Solutions (4) 13 % 10 % 4 % Client SSD Solutions (5) 11 % 19 % 15 % Other (6) 12 % 11 % 11 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Revenue by category is calculated based on analysis of the information we collect in our sales reporting processes. Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding. (2) Removable includes products such as cards, USB flash drives and audio/video players. (3) Embedded includes products that attach to a host system board. (4) Enterprise Solutions includes SSDs, system solutions and software used in data center applications. (5) Client SSD Solutions includes SSDs used in client devices and associated software. (6) Other includes wafers, components, accessories, and license and royalties. The changes in our revenue by category for 2015 , compared to 2014 , were due primarily to the following: Removable revenue decreased 11% , due primarily to lower sales of cards to private label customers and retail price declines exceeding unit growth; Embedded revenue decreased 12% , due primarily to lower sales of iNAND and MCP products, partially offset by higher sales of custom embedded products; Enterprise Solutions revenue increased 10% , due primarily to higher sales of PCIe solutions from the Fusionio acquisition completed in the third quarter of 2014, and higher sales of SATA solutions, partially offset by lower sales of SAS solutions; Client SSD Solutions revenue decreased 50% , due primarily to a significant client SSD program ending for us at a large customer, partially offset by growth in client SSD products to other customers; and Other revenue decreased 4% , driven by lower sales of wafers and components, partially offset by higher license and royalty. The changes in our revenue by category for 2014, compared to 2013, were due primarily to the following: Removable revenue comprised 38% of our revenue mix and revenue was lower by 5% year-over-year, due primarily to lower sales of imaging cards, USB drives and gaming cards. SSD solutions achieved 29% of our revenue mix, with a 61% year-over-year revenue growth rate. We experienced growth in sales of both client SSD solutions and enterprise SSD solutions, with growth in enterprise SSD solutions partially benefiting from our acquisition of SMART Storage Systems , or SMART Storage , in August 2013 and our acquisition of Fusionio in July 2014. Embedded revenue comprised 22% of our revenue mix and was lower by 11% year-over-year, due primarily to lower sales of custom embedded solutions. 51 Table of Contents Revenue Mix by Geography . 2015 2014 2013 Revenue Percent of Total Revenue Percent of Total Revenue Percent of Total (In millions, except percentages) United States $ 1,136.3 20 % $ 1,136.3 17 % $ 877.8 14 % Asia-Pacific 3,349.9 60 % 4,355.3 66 % 4,209.8 68 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 824.5 15 % 814.8 12 % 780.1 13 % Other foreign countries 254.2 5 % 321.3 5 % 302.3 5 % Total revenue $ 5,564.9 100 % $ 6,627.7 100 % $ 6,170.0 100 % Our revenue is designated based on the geographic location where the product is delivered, or in the case of license and royalty revenue, the location of the headquarters of the licensee, and therefore may not be indicative of the actual demand in those regions. The changes in our revenue by geography for 2015 , compared to 2014 , were due primarily to the following: Revenue in the U.S. was approximately the same as the previous year with lower sales of removable products offset by higher sales of client SSD solutions and enterprise solutions. Revenue in Asia-Pacific decreased due primarily to a significant client SSD program ending for us at a large customer, lower revenue from embedded products, removable products, wafers and components, partially offset by higher license and royalty revenue. Revenue in Europe, Middle East and Africa increased due primarily to higher sales of enterprise solutions and client SSD solutions, partially offset by lower revenue from removable products. Revenue in other foreign countries decreased due primarily to lower sales of removable and embedded products. The changes in our revenue by geography for 2014, compared to 2013, were due primarily to the following: Revenue in the U.S. increased due primarily to increased sales of client and enterprise SSD products and cards for mobile devices, partially offset by lower sales of imaging cards and USB drives. Revenue in Asia-Pacific increased due primarily to increased sales of client and enterprise SSD products, wafer and components, and cards for mobile devices, partially offset by lower sales of embedded products, gaming cards and imaging cards. Revenue in the Europe, Middle East and Africa increased due primarily to increased sales of client and enterprise SSD products, partially offset by lower sales of imaging cards and USB drives. Revenue in other foreign countries decreased due primarily to lower sales of imaging cards and cards for mobile devices, partially offset by higher sales of embedded products. 52 Table of Contents Gross Profit and Margin . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Gross profit $ 2,257.1 (26 %) $ 3,067.8 7 % $ 2,867.5 Gross margin 40.6 % 46.3 % 46.5 % The lower gross margin for 2015 , compared to 2014 , resulted primarily from the impact of a 34% decline in our blended average selling price per gigabyte exceeding the impact of a 27% decline in our blended average cost per gigabyte. The reduction in our average selling price per gigabyte was driven by both the market environment and our product mix. The reduction in our blended average cost per gigabyte in 2015 was derived primarily from technology transitions, non-memory cost reductions and a weaker Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher inventory-related charges, higher usage of non-captive memory, and start-up costs related to our Malaysia assembly and test facility. Gross margin was approximately the same in 2014, compared to 2013, as our blended average selling price per gigabyte and our blended average cost per gigabyte both declined by 22%. Gross margin in 2014 was negatively impacted by a decreased mix of removable product revenue, an increased mix of client SSD revenue, increased amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and increased share-based compensation. Gross margin in 2014 was positively impacted by an increased mix of enterprise SSD revenue, a decreased mix of embedded revenue and a weaker Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar. 53 Table of Contents Research and Development . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 883.2 4 % $ 852.3 15 % $ 742.3 % of revenue 16 % 13 % 12 % The increase in our research and development expense for 2015 , compared to 2014 , was due primarily to increases in third-party engineering expense of $26 million , higher equipment depreciation of $10 million , and facilities expense of $4 million , partially offset by a decrease in engineering product costs of $11 million and lower employee-related costs of $1 million . The slightly lower employee-related costs of $1 million were due primarily to decreases in incentive compensation expense of $41 million , partially offset by increases in salary and benefit costs of $27 million and share-based compensation expense of $13 million , both due primarily to an increase in headcount, in part related to the acquisition of Fusionio in July 2014. The increase in our research and development expense for 2014, compared to 2013, was due primarily to higher employee-related costs of $73 million, higher facility costs of $20 million, an increase in third-party services of $12 million and an increase in higher equipment depreciation of $9 million, partially offset by lower third-party license costs of $10 million. The higher employee-related costs were due primarily to an increase in salary and benefits of $69 million and share-based compensation of $23 million, due primarily to increased headcount, which was in part related to our acquisition of Fusionio , partially offset by lower incentive compensation of $19 million. Sales and Marketing . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 387.4 1 % $ 383.3 39 % $ 276.3 % of revenue 7 % 6 % 5 % The slight increase in our sales and marketing expense for 2015 , compared to 2014 , was due primarily to increases in employee-related costs of $10 million and other expenses of $4 million , partially offset by a decrease in advertising expense of $11 million . The higher employee-related costs of $10 million include increases in salary and benefit costs of $25 million , in part related to the acquisition of Fusionio in July 2014, partially offset by a decrease in incentive compensation expense of $16 million . The increase in our sales and marketing expense for 2014, compared to 2013, was due primarily to higher employee-related costs of $77 million, higher advertising, branding and merchandising of $19 million, increased facility costs of $6 million, and an increase in outside services of $4 million. The higher employee-related costs were due primarily to an increase in salary and benefits of $65 million and share-based compensation expense of $17 million, due primarily to increased headcount, which was in part related to our acquisition of Fusionio , partially offset by lower incentive compensation of $5 million. 54 Table of Contents General and Administrative . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 174.1 (19 %) $ 214.9 12 % $ 192.3 % of revenue 3 % 3 % 3 % The decrease in our general and administrative expense for 2015 , compared to 2014 , was due primarily to decreases in legal expense of $18 million , employee-related costs of $11 million , charitable contributions expense of $6 million , and outside services expense of $5 million . The lower employee-related costs of $11 million were due primarily to a decrease in incentive compensation expense of $9 million . The increase in our general and administrative expense for 2014, compared to 2013, was due primarily to an increase in employee-related costs of $20 million and higher legal costs of $12 million, partially offset by lower outside service expense of $3 million and lower other costs of $4 million. The higher employee-related costs were due primarily to an increase in salary and benefits of $14 million and share-based compensation expense of $10 million, due primarily to increased headcount, which was in part related to our acquisition of Fusionio , partially offset by lower incentive compensation of $4 million. Amortization of Acquisition-related Intangible Assets . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets $ 53.4 102 % $ 26.4 136 % $ 11.2 % of revenue 1 % % % The increase in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets for 2015 , compared to 2014 , was due to the acquisition of Fusionio which was completed in the third quarter of 2014. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in 2014, compared to 2013, was higher due to a full year of amortization of intangible assets from our acquisition of SMART Storage , which was completed in the third quarter of 2013, and from our Fusionio acquisition which was completed in the third quarter of 2014. Impairment of Acquisition-related Intangible Assets . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets $ 61.0 ** $ ** $ 83.2 % of revenue 1 % % 1 % ** Amount not meaningful Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets for 2015 related to an IPR&D project from the acquisition of Fusionio . The project was cancelled and resources were redirected towards the next-generation PCIe and converged enterprise platform. See Note 6 , Goodwill and Intangible Assets , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. In 2013, we impaired and wrote off $83 million of IPR&D and amortizable intangible assets related to our Pliant Technology, Inc. acquisition. 55 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Restructuring and other $ 53.3 62 % $ 33.0 ** $ % of revenue 1 % % % ** Amount not meaningful Restructuring and other expense for 2015 primarily included legal settlements as well as charges and adjustments related to the 2015 Restructuring Plan and the 2014 Restructuring Plan . During 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan, which primarily consisted of reductions in workforce related to realignment of certain projects. The 2015 Restructuring Plan included severance and benefits related to involuntary terminations of personnel in manufacturing operations, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions of the organization, in the U.S. and other countries. The 2015 Restructuring Plan is estimated to reduce our annual employee expenses by approximately $42 million . During 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan, which primarily consisted of reductions in workforce related to redundant activities due to the Fusionio acquisition, as well as realignment of certain projects. The 2014 Restructuring Plan included severance and benefits related to involuntary terminations of personnel in manufacturing operations, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions of the organization, in the U.S. and other countries. In addition, we recorded other expense related to the acquisition of Fusionio , which primarily consisted of legal, banker, accounting and tax fees, certain employee change of control charges and employee retention bonus payments, and litigation and integration expenses. See Note 11 , Restructuring and Other , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Western Digital Acquisition-related Expenses . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Western Digital acquisition-related expenses $ 28.1 ** $ ** $ % of revenue % % % ** Amount not meaningful In October 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement under which Western Digital will acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock for a combination of cash and Western Digital common stock. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we incurred, and in 2016 we expect to continue to incur, expenses such as transaction, legal, employee-related and other costs related to the pending acquisition of us by Western Digital through the closing of this acquisition. 56 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), net . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Interest income $ 36.4 (30 %) $ 51.8 6 % $ 48.8 Interest expense (120.3 ) 6 % (113.1 ) 24 % (91.5 ) Other income (expense), net (3.1 ) ** (7.6 ) ** (3.4 ) Total other income (expense), net $ (87.0 ) ** $ (68.9 ) ** $ (46.1 ) ** Amount not meaningful Total other income (expense), net for 2015 , compared to 2014 , reflected a higher net expense due to lower interest income and higher interest expense, partially offset by lower expense from other income (expense), net. Interest income decreased due to lower balances of cash and cash equivalents, and short and long-term marketable securities. Interest expense increased due to interest accretion on our convertible debt securities. Other income (expense), net was a lower net expense in 2015 , due primarily to an impairment charge in 2014 and lower foreign exchange losses. Total other income (expense), net for 2014 reflected a higher net expense, compared to 2013, due primarily to higher interest expense as a result of higher average convertible debt balances, partially offset by increased interest income due primarily to realized gains on sales of marketable securities. Other income (expense), net was a higher expense in 2014, compared to 2013, due to an impairment charge on a loan provided to ioControl , a product line of Fusionio which we divested in the fourth quarter of 2014. 57 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes . 2015 Percent Change 2014 Percent Change 2013 (In millions, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 141.1 (71 %) $ 481.6 2 % $ 473.4 Tax rate 26.6 % 32.3 % 31.2 % Our 2015 , 2014 and 2013 provisions for income taxes differ from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% due primarily to settlements with tax authorities, the non-deductibility of certain share-based compensation, the impact of state taxes, R&D credits, tax-exempt interest and earnings from foreign operations. Earnings and taxes resulting from foreign operations are largely attributable to our Chinese, Irish, Israeli, Japanese and Malaysian entities. The lower effective tax rate for 2015 , compared to 2014 , is primarily attributable to higher tax benefits resulting from settlements of audits and a decrease in state income taxes, partially offset by increased nondeductible share-based compensation. The higher effective tax rate for 2014 , compared to 2013 , was due primarily to the retroactive inclusion of the 2012 federal R&D tax credit in 2013. We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income taxes in multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. In 2015 , we received and signed the closing agreement with the IRS related to the examination of our federal income tax returns for 2009 through 2011, and finalized audits for certain periods with the California Franchise Tax Board and other various states tax authorities. In 2015 and 2014 , we recorded tax benefits of $37 million and $25 million , respectively, as a result of several audit settlements. We are currently under audit by various state and international tax authorities. While we believe that we have an adequate provision for the years under audit, there is still a possibility that an adverse outcome from these matters could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We cannot reasonably expect any settlements to occur within the next 12 months. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 enacted on December 18, 2015 extended and made permanent the federal R&D tax credit. As a result, our income tax provision for 2015 includes a tax benefit that reduced our effective annual tax rate. We recorded federal R&D tax benefits of $11 million , $19 million and $19 million in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 58 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. Use of Estimates. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, among others, those related to customer programs and incentives, product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories and inventory valuation, valuation and impairments of marketable securities and investments, valuation and impairments of goodwill and long-lived assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, restructurings, contingencies, share-based compensation, IP claims and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities when those values are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates have historically approximated actual results. However, future results will differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances and Sales Incentive Programs. Sales made to distributors and retailers are generally under agreements allowing price protection and/or right of return and, therefore, the revenue and related costs of these transactions are deferred until the distributors or retailers sell the merchandise to their end customer, or the rights of return expire. As of January 3, 2016 and December 28, 2014 , deferred income from sales to distributors and retailers were $219 million and $237 million , respectively. Estimated sales returns are recorded as a reduction to revenue and deferred revenue and were not material for any period presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We record estimated reductions to revenue or to deferred revenue for customer and distributor incentive programs and offerings, including price protection, promotions, co-op advertising, and other volume-based incentives and expected returns. All sales incentive programs are recorded as an offset to revenue or deferred revenue. In calculating the value of sales incentive programs, actual and estimated activity is used based upon reported weekly sell-through data from our customers and historical activity. The resolution of these claims is generally within 12 months and could materially impact revenue or deferred revenue. In addition, actual returns and rebates in any future period could differ from our estimates, which could impact the revenue we report. Our actual returns and rebates have not been materially different from our estimates. Inventories and Inventory Valuation. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or net realizable value. Net realizable value is based upon an estimated average selling price reduced by estimated costs of disposal. The determination of net realizable value involves numerous judgments including estimating average selling prices based upon recent sales, industry trends, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analysis of supply and demand and seasonal factors. Should actual market conditions differ from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. The valuation of inventory also requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products within appropriate time horizons, generally six to 12 months. The estimated future demand is compared to inventory levels to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete and excess inventory. The demand forecast includes our estimates of market growth and our market share, various internal estimates and data from certain external sources, and is based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage our underlying business and short-term manufacturing plans. To the extent our demand forecast for specific products is less than the combination of our product on-hand and our noncancelable orders from suppliers, we could be required to record additional inventory reserves, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Deferred Tax Assets. We must make certain estimates in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. From time-to-time, we must evaluate the expected realization of our deferred tax assets and determine whether a valuation allowance needs to be established or released. In determining the need for and amount of our valuation allowance, we assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets using historical levels of income, estimates of future income and tax planning strategies. Our estimates of future income include our internal projections and various internal estimates and certain external sources which we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. We also consider the jurisdictional mix of income and loss, changes in tax regulations in the period the changes are enacted and the type of deferred tax assets and liabilities. In assessing whether a valuation allowance needs to be established or released, we use judgment in considering the cumulative effect of negative and positive evidence and the weight given to the potential effect of the evidence. Recent historical income or loss and future projected operational results have the most influence on our determinations of whether a deferred tax valuation allowance is required or not. 59 Table of Contents Our estimates for tax uncertainties require substantial judgment based upon the period of occurrence, complexity of the matter, available federal tax case law, interpretation of foreign laws and regulations and other estimates. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining whether the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences generally will impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is made. Valuation of Long-lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill. We perform tests for impairment of long-lived assets whenever events or circumstances suggest that long-lived assets may not be recoverable. An impairment is only deemed to have occurred if the sum of the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows related to the assets are less than the carrying value of the asset we are testing for impairment. If the forecasted undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, then we must determine the fair value of the long-lived asset or group of long-lived assets and recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount of the long-lived asset or group of long-lived assets exceeds its fair value which is based primarily upon forecasted discounted cash flows. These forecasted discounted cash flows include estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates and operating margins, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. Our estimates of market growth and our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of both established and emerging technologies and our forecasts for emerging technologies are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We perform our annual impairment analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (such as IPR&D) on the first day of the fourth quarter of each year, or more often if there are indicators of impairment. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. As of January 3, 2016 , we had one reporting unit. We may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount and whether the two-step impairment test on goodwill is required. If, based upon qualitative factors, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, we will not be required to proceed to a two-step impairment test on goodwill. However, we also have the option to proceed directly to a two-step impairment test on goodwill. In the first step, or Step 1, of the two-step impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value of the net assets, goodwill is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets exceeds the fair value, then we must perform the second step, or Step 2, of the two-step impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted-average cost of capital. We evaluate the reasonableness of the fair value calculations of our reporting units by reconciling the total of the fair values of all of our reporting units to our total market capitalization, taking into account an appropriate control premium. The determination of a control premium requires the use of judgment and is based primarily on comparable industry and deal-size transactions, related synergies and other benefits. When we are required to perform a Step 2 analysis, determining the fair value of our net assets and our off-balance sheet intangibles used in Step 2 requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. For both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the goodwill or an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired and determine whether further action is needed. 60 Table of Contents Fair Value of Investments in Debt Instruments . There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value (see Note 3 , Investments and Fair Value Measurements , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. ) Each level of input has different levels of subjectivity and difficulty involved in determining fair value. Level 1 securities represent quoted prices in active markets, and therefore do not require significant management judgment. Our Level 2 securities are primarily valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments and non-binding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, compared to multiple independent valuation sources and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information. In the current market environment, the assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe estimates and assumptions materially impacted our valuation of our cash equivalents and short and long-term marketable securities. We currently do not have any investments that use Level 3 inputs. 61 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation of Net Income . 2015 2014 2013 (In millions, except per share amounts) Net income $ 388.5 $ 1,007.4 $ 1,042.7 Share-based compensation 172.4 155.4 99.8 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 164.6 127.4 60.7 Inventory step-up expense 7.8 Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 61.0 83.2 Western Digital acquisition-related 29.0 Convertible debt interest 92.6 85.7 67.6 Income tax adjustments (158.0 ) (95.5 ) (87.0 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 750.1 $ 1,288.2 $ 1,267.0 Diluted net income per share $ 1.82 $ 4.23 $ 4.34 Share-based compensation 0.85 0.73 0.42 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 0.80 0.59 0.26 Inventory step-up expense 0.09 Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 0.30 0.35 Western Digital acquisition-related 0.15 Convertible debt interest 0.46 0.40 0.29 Income tax adjustments (0.77 ) (0.44 ) (0.35 ) Non-GAAP diluted net income per share $ 3.61 $ 5.60 $ 5.31 Reconciliation of Diluted Shares . 2015 2014 2013 (In millions) GAAP diluted shares 212.9 238.2 240.2 Adjustment for share-based compensation 0.1 0.3 0.3 Offsetting shares from call option (5.3 ) (8.3 ) (2.1 ) Non-GAAP diluted shares 207.7 230.2 238.4 We believe these non-GAAP measures provide investors the ability to better assess and understand operating performance, especially when comparing results with previous periods or forecasting performance for future periods, primarily because management typically monitors the business excluding these items. We also use these non-GAAP measures to establish operational goals and for measuring performance for compensation purposes. However, analysis of results on a non-GAAP basis should be used as a complement to, and in conjunction with, and not as a replacement for, results presented in accordance with GAAP. In 2015, due to the pending acquisition of SanDisk by Western Digital, our non-GAAP measures have been updated to exclude Western Digital acquisition-related items. We believe that the presentation of non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share, provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to our operating results. We believe that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports. 62 Table of Contents We have historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of our company. Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by us for purposes of: evaluating our core operating performance; establishing internal budgets; setting and determining variable compensation levels; calculating return on investment for development programs and growth initiatives; comparing performance with internal forecasts and targeted business models; strategic planning; and benchmarking performance externally against our competitors. We exclude the following items from our non-GAAP measures: Share-based Compensation Expense . These expenses consist primarily of expenses for share-based compensation, such as stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan. Although share-based compensation is an important aspect of the compensation of our employees, we exclude share-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. Further, share-based compensation expenses are based on valuations with many underlying assumptions not in our control that vary over time and may include modifications that may not occur on a predictable cycle, neither of which is necessarily indicative of our ongoing business performance. In addition, the share-based compensation expenses recorded are often unrelated to the actual compensation an employee realizes. We believe that it is useful to exclude share-based compensation expense for investors to better understand the long-term performance of our core operations and to facilitate comparison of our results to our prior periods and to our peer companies. Amortization and Impairment of Acquisition-related Intangible Assets . We incur amortization and, occasionally, impair intangible assets in connection with acquisitions. Since we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle, we exclude these items in order to provide investors and others with a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods. Inventory Step-up Expense . Acquired inventory in a business combination is generally recognized at fair value less costs to sell, which is generally higher than the historical cost value of the inventory. We exclude these increased or stepped-up values of inventory when sold to provide a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods as these costs are not representative of ongoing future costs. Western Digital Acquisition-related . Due to the pending acquisition of SanDisk by Western Digital, we have incurred expenses for transaction, legal, employee-related and other costs. In addition, we have incurred gains and losses related to the shortened duration and expected liquidation prior to their effective maturity date of marketable securities. We exclude these Western Digital acquisition-related items to provide a consistent basis for comparison across accounting periods as these items are not representative of our ongoing operational activity. Convertible Debt Interest . We incur non-cash economic interest expense relating to the implied value of the equity conversion component of our convertible debt. The value of the equity conversion component is treated as a debt discount and amortized to interest expense over the life of the notes using the effective interest rate method. We also incur interest expense equal to the change in fair value of the liability component of the convertible debt when we repurchase or a note holder converts a portion of the convertible debt. We exclude these non-cash interest expenses that do not represent cash interest payments made to our note holders. 63 Table of Contents Income Tax Adjustments . This amount is used to present each of the amounts described above on an after-tax basis, considering jurisdictional tax rates, consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income. Diluted Share Adjustments. As share-based compensation is excluded from our presentation of non-GAAP net income, the impact of share-based compensation on diluted share calculations is also excluded from non-GAAP diluted shares. Concurrent with the issuance of our convertible debt, we entered into convertible bond hedge transactions in which counterparties agreed to sell us a number of shares of our common stock which will be equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible debt. As a result, our convertible bond hedges, if exercised, will deliver shares to offset the issuance of dilutive shares from our convertible debt. Because the bond hedges will ultimately offset the shares issued at maturity of our convertible debt, we include the impact of the bond hedges in our non-GAAP dilutive shares in any period where the associated convertible debt is dilutive. The impact of the convertible bond hedges is excluded from GAAP dilutive shares. From time-to-time in the future, there may be other items that we may exclude if we believe that doing so is consistent with the goal of providing useful information to investors and management. Limitations of Relying on Non-GAAP Financial Measures. We have incurred, and will incur in the future, many of the costs that we exclude from the non-GAAP measures, including share-based compensation expense, inventory step-up expense, impairment of goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, Western Digital Corporation acquisition-related expenses, gains and losses related to the shortened duration or liquidation prior to their effective maturity of marketable securities due to the pending acquisition of SanDisk by Western Digital, non-cash economic interest expense associated with our convertible debt and related tax adjustments. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies. 64 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows. Our cash flows were as follows: 2015 2014 2013 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,046.7 $ 1,698.4 $ 1,863.7 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,027.7 (514.7 ) (922.9 ) Net cash used in financing activities (1,403.2 ) (1,352.8 ) (956.4 ) Effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash (1.3 ) (8.1 ) 6.4 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 669.9 $ (177.2 ) $ (9.2 ) Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities is generated by net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities was lower in 2015, compared to 2014, by $652 million , due primarily to lower net income of $619 million and higher cash used for operating assets and liabilities of $179 million , partially offset by a higher benefit of non-cash adjustments related to operating activities of $146 million . The changes in operating assets and liabilities for 2015 were a use of cash of $177 million and included the following: cash flow from accounts receivable was a source of cash, due primarily to a year-over-year reduction in our revenue; cash flow from inventory was a use of cash, due primarily to growth in inventory balances to better support customer service levels; cash flow from other assets was a use of cash, due primarily to prepaid building costs related to the New Fab 2 and prepaid tax payments; cash flow from accounts payable trade and related parties was a use of cash, due primarily to the timing of invoices from, and payments to, trade and related-party vendors; and cash flow from other liabilities was a use of cash, due primarily to year-over-year reduction in taxes payable and incentive compensation payments higher than accruals in 2015. The decrease in cash provided by operations in 2014, compared to 2013, resulted primarily from less cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities and lower net income, partially offset by higher non-cash adjustments to operating activities: cash flow from accounts receivable was a higher use of cash compared with the prior year, due primarily to higher sales in 2014 and longer average payment terms based upon our customer mix. There are no specific credit risks as a result of higher accounts receivable, net balances at the end of 2014; cash flow from inventory was a higher source of cash compared with the prior year, due primarily to a reduction in inventory levels; cash flow from other assets was a lower source of cash compared with the prior year due primarily to collection of a federal tax receivable in the prior year and by the timing of prepaid and other receivable activities; cash flow from accounts payable trade was a higher source of cash compared with the prior year due primarily to the timing of payments to vendors and higher expenses in 2014, compared to 2013; cash flow from accounts payable from related parties was a lower use of cash compared with the prior year due primarily to the timing of payments to Flash Ventures; and cash flow from other liabilities was a use of cash compared to cash provided by other liabilities in the prior year, due primarily to the amount and timing of incentive compensation payments and tax payments. 65 Table of Contents Investing Activities. Net cash provided by investing activities in 2015 was due to the net proceeds from short and long-term marketable securities of $1.49 billion , partially offset by acquisition of property and equipment of $414 million , net cash provided to Flash Ventures of $38 million and other investments of $10 million. Net cash used in investing activities for 2014 was primarily related to the acquisition of Fusionio, net of cash acquired of $1.06 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $233 million, partially offset by net proceeds from sales and maturities of short and long-term marketable securities of $781 million and net proceeds from Flash Ventures of $26 million. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities in 2015 was primarily related to share repurchases of $1.25 billion , dividends paid of $189 million and cash of $45 million used for taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a source of cash of $81 million related to our employee stock programs. Net cash used in financing activities in 2014 was primarily related to share repurchases of $1.30 billion , dividends paid of $235 million and cash of $41 million used for taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a source of cash of $226 million related to our employee stock programs. Liquid Assets. As of January 3, 2016 , we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities of $4.01 billion . This included $785 million of marketable securities which have a maturity greater than one year but which we do not currently intend to hold to maturity due to the pending acquisition of SanDisk by Western Digital. We had $117 million of long-term marketable securities, which we believe are also liquid assets, but are classified as long-term marketable securities due to the remaining maturity of each marketable security being greater than one year. Short-Term Liquidity. As of January 3, 2016 , our working capital balance was $3.7 billion . During 2016, we expect our total capital investment to be approximately $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion , including our net capital investments in Flash Ventures and our investment in non-fab property and equipment. We forecast these 2016 investments to be funded by Flash Ventures working capital, anticipated new equipment leases and approximately $425 million to $550 million of our cash. For 2015, total capital investments were $1.46 billion , which was funded by Flash Ventures working capital, equipment leases and $452 million of our cash. We believe our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations over the next 12 months. Depending on the forecasted demand for our products, we may decide to make additional investments, which could be substantial, in wafer fabrication capacity and assembly and test manufacturing equipment. We may also engage in merger or acquisition transactions, make equity investments in other companies or purchase or license technologies, subject to any restrictions set forth in the interim operating covenants in the merger agreement with Western Digital. These activities may require us to raise additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain, and which if not obtained in satisfactory amounts, could prevent us from funding Flash Ventures, increasing our wafer supply, developing or enhancing our products, taking advantage of future opportunities, engaging in acquisitions of or investments in companies, growing our business, or responding to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. Our short-term liquidity is impacted in part by compliance with covenants in the outstanding Flash Ventures master lease agreements. Flash Ventures master lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities . In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures obligations, the master lease agreements contain an acceleration clause for certain events of default related to us as guarantor, including, among other things, our failure to maintain a minimum stockholders equity of at least $1.51 billion . As of January 3, 2016 , our stockholders equity of $5.74 billion was in compliance with the related covenant under Flash Ventures master lease agreements . If our stockholders equity were to fall below $1.51 billion , or other events of default occur, Flash Ventures would become non-compliant with certain covenants under its master lease agreements and would be required to negotiate a resolution to the non-compliance to avoid acceleration of our guarantee obligations under the master lease agreements . As of January 3, 2016 , the total amount of our guarantee obligation of Flash Ventures master lease agreements, which reflects future payments and any lease adjustments, was approximately $766 million based upon the exchange rate at January 3, 2016 . The closing of the proposed merger with Western Digital is not expected to cause an event of default under the master lease agreements. 66 Table of Contents As of January 3, 2016 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term marketable securities held by non-U.S. subsidiaries was $783 million . Of the $783 million held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, approximately $654 million was available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional income taxes in excess of the tax amounts already accrued in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 3, 2016 . The remaining amount of non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term marketable securities has been indefinitely reinvested. As of January 3, 2016 , we had not made a provision for U.S. income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on $1.26 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as we intend to indefinitely reinvest these earnings outside the U.S. to fund our international capital expenditures and operating requirements. We determined that it is not practicable to calculate the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these cumulative unremitted earnings. If these earnings were distributed to the U.S., we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes reduced by any available foreign tax credits. In January 2015 , our Board of Directors increased the existing stock repurchase program by an additional $2.50 billion for share repurchases. Of the aggregate $6.25 billion authorized for share repurchases by our Board of Directors from the fourth quarter of 2011 through January 3, 2016 , approximately $1.88 billion remained available for share repurchases as of January 3, 2016 . Since the fourth quarter of 2011 through January 3, 2016 , we have spent an aggregate $4.37 billion to repurchase 62.9 million shares at an average stock price of $69.58 per share . Included in the aggregate repurchase activity are 17.5 million shares that were repurchased at an average stock price of $71.31 per share for an aggregate amount of $1.25 billion during 2015 . In addition to repurchases under our stock repurchase program, during 2015 , we spen t $45 million for taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any particular amount of common stock during any period, and the program may be modified or suspended at any time at our discretion. Due to the pending acquisition of us by Western Digital , we have suspended our capital return program. Accordingly, we do not intend to repurchase any shares in the future under the stock repurchase program or declare any future cash dividends. We will continue to use cash to settle employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock units, or RSUs , in exchange for a reduction in the number of shares issued to the employee upon vesting. We will also continue to use cash upon vesting of RSUs for dividends previously declared and accumulated on those RSUs . Long-Term Requirements. Depending on the forecasted demand for our products, we may decide to make additional investments, which could be substantial, in wafer fabrication capacity and assembly and test manufacturing equipment. We may also engage in merger or acquisition transactions, make equity investments in other companies, or purchase or license technologies. These activities may require us to raise additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain, and which if not obtained in satisfactory amounts, could prevent us from funding Flash Ventures, increasing our wafer supply, developing or enhancing our products, taking advantage of future opportunities, engaging in investments in or acquisitions of companies, growing our business, responding to competitive pressures or unanticipated industry changes, any of which could harm our business. Financing Arrangements. As of January 3, 2016 , we had $997 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.5% Notes due 2017 and $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of our 0.5% Notes due 2020 outstanding. The 1.5% Notes due 2017 and the 0.5% Notes due 2020 may be converted at the option of the holders during certain periods as a result of, among other things, fluctuations in our stock price or in connection with a merger event. Under certain circumstances, the conversion rate will be increased for holders who elect to convert their 1.5% Notes due 2017 or 0.5% Notes due 2020 in connection with a merger event. See Note 7 , Financing Arrangements , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. 67 Table of Contents 1.5% Notes due 2017 . As of the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2015, 1.5% Notes due 2017 were convertible at the holders option beginning January 1, 2016 and ending March 31, 2016 as the last reported sales price of our stock exceeded 130% of the conversion price for more than 20 days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days prior to December 31, 2015, as set forth in the indenture . Accordingly, the carrying value of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 was classified as a current liability and the difference between the principal amount payable in cash upon conversion and the carrying value of the equity component of $80.5 million of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 was reclassified from Stockholders equity to Convertible short-term debt conversion obligation on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 3, 2016 , and will remain so while the notes are convertible. The determination of whether or not the 1.5% Notes due 2017 are convertible must continue to be performed on a calendar-quarter basis. Consequently, the 1.5% Notes due 2017 may be reclassified as long-term debt if the conversion threshold is not met in future quarters. Based on the last closing price for our common stock as of January 3, 2016 of $75.99 , if all of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 then outstanding were converted at the then-current conversion rate, approximately 6.5 million shares would be distributed to the holders. Under the terms of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 , the pending acquisition by Western Digital will constitute a designated event and a fundamental change. As a result, holders of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 will be permitted to choose (i) to convert their 1.5% Notes due 2017 into a mixture of cash and stock at a temporarily increased conversion rate, (ii) to require us to repurchase their 1.5% Notes due 2017 for a price equal to their principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest to but excluding the repurchase date, or (iii) to continue holding their 1.5% Notes due 2017 . If the merger closes, the holders of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 would be expected to exercise the right to convert their 1.5% Notes due 2017 in accordance with their terms at a temporarily increased conversion rate shortly following the closing of the merger (although the holders actual decisions will depend upon their judgments based on the then prevailing market conditions) in which case the 1.5% Notes due 2017 will be converted into cash for the principal amount and the merger consideration with respect to the excess thereof. The holders of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 may deliver conversion notices prior to the closing of the merger, and if they do so, we will be required to settle such conversions regardless of whether the merger closes; however, if the merger does not close, any converting holders will not be entitled to the temporarily increased conversion rate. Concurrent with the issuance of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 , we entered into a convertible bond hedge transaction in which counterparties initially agreed to sell to us up to approximately 19.1 million shares of our common stock, which is the number of shares initially issuable upon conversion of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 in full, at a price of $52.37 per share. The convertible bond hedge agreement contains provisions where the number of shares to be sold under the convertible bond hedge transaction and the conversion price will be adjusted if we pay a cash dividend to holders of our common stock. Adjusting for dividends paid through January 3, 2016 , the counterparties agreed to sell to us up to approximately 19.7 million shares of our common stock, which is the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 in full, at a price of $50.68 per share as of January 3, 2016 . This convertible bond hedge transaction will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 or the first day none of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. Settlement of the convertible bond hedge in net shares in connection with the conversion of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 would result in us receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by us upon conversion of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 . Should there be an early unwind of the convertible bond hedge transaction, the number of net shares potentially received by us will depend upon 1) the then existing overall market conditions, 2) our stock price, 3) the volatility of our stock, and 4) the amount of time remaining before expiration of the convertible bond hedge. The convertible bond hedge transaction cost of $293 million has been accounted for as an equity transaction. We initially recorded approximately $2 million in stockholders equity from the deferred tax asset related to the convertible bond hedge at inception of the transaction. Cumulatively through January 3, 2016 , we had received 27,134 shares of our common stock from the exercise of a portion of the convertible bond hedge related to the conversion of the $3 million aggregate principal amount of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 . 68 Table of Contents In addition, concurrent with the issuance of the 1.5% Notes due 2017 , we sold warrants to acquire up to approximately 19.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $73.3250 per share. The warrant agreements contain provisions whereby the number of shares to be acquired under the warrants and the strike price are adjusted if we pay a cash dividend to holders of our common stock. Adjusting for dividends paid through January 3, 2016 , holders of the warrants may acquire up to approximately 19.7 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $70.9573 per share as of January 3, 2016 . The warrants mature on 40 different dates from November 13, 2017 through January 10, 2018 , are automatically exercised at maturity, and are settled on a net share basis. The value of the warrants was initially recorded in equity and through January 3, 2016 continued to be classified as equity. Subsequent to January 3, 2016 , 50% of the warrants associated with the 1.5% Notes due 2017 were terminated, resulting in an obligation of approximately $209 million payable by us at the earlier of the closing of the Western Digital merger or August 2017 (regardless of whether the merger closes by such time). We are continuing discussions regarding potential modifications with the remaining warrant counterparty. 0.5% Notes due 2020 . The 0.5% Notes due 2020 have not been convertible for any period to date, and accordingly, the carrying value of the notes was reported as long-term debt as of January 3, 2016 . Upon conversion of any of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 , we will deliver cash up to the principal amount of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 and shares of our common stock (plus cash in lieu of any fractional shares of common stock) with respect to any conversion value greater than the principal amount of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 . Under the terms of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 , the pending acquisition by Western Digital will constitute a designated event and a fundamental change. As a result, holders of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 will be permitted to choose (i) to convert their 0.5% Notes due 2020 into a mixture of cash and stock at a temporarily increased conversion rate, (ii) to require us to repurchase their 0.5% Notes due 2020 for a price equal to their principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest to but excluding the repurchase date, or (iii) to continue holding their 0.5% Notes due 2020 . If the merger closes, the holders of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 would be expected to exercise the right to convert their 0.5% Notes due 2020 in accordance with their terms at a temporarily increased conversion rate shortly following the closing of the merger (although the holders actual decisions will depend upon their judgments based on the then prevailing market conditions) in which case the 0.5% Notes due 2020 will be converted into cash for the principal amount and the merger consideration with respect to the excess thereof. The holders of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 may deliver conversion notices prior to the closing of the merger, and if they do so, we will be required to settle such conversions regardless of whether the merger closes; however, if the merger does not close, any converting holders will not be entitled to the temporarily increased conversion rate. Concurrent with the issuance of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 , we entered into a convertible bond hedge transaction in which counterparties agreed to sell to us up to approximately 16.3 million shares of our common stock, which is the number of shares initially issuable upon conversion of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 in full, at a price of $92.19 per share. The convertible bond hedge agreement contains provisions where the number of shares to be sold under the convertible bond hedge transaction and the conversion price will be adjusted if we pay a cash dividend greater than a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.225 per share to holders of our common stock. Adjusting for dividends paid through January 3, 2016 , the counterparties agreed to sell to us up to approximately 16.4 million shares of our common stock, which is the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 in full, at a price of $91.74 per share as of January 3, 2016 . This convertible bond hedge transaction will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 or the first day none of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. Settlement of the convertible bond hedge in net shares in connection with the conversion of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 would result in us receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by us upon conversion of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 . Should there be an early unwind of the convertible bond hedge transaction, the number of net shares potentially received by us will depend upon 1) the then existing overall market conditions, 2) our stock price, 3) the volatility of our stock, and 4) the amount of time remaining before expiration of the convertible bond hedge. The convertible bond hedge transaction cost of $332 million has been accounted for as an equity transaction. We initially recorded approximately $119 million in stockholders equity from the deferred tax asset related to the convertible bond hedge at inception of the transaction. As of January 3, 2016 , we had not purchased any shares under this convertible bond hedge agreement. 69 Table of Contents In addition, concurrent with the issuance of the 0.5% Notes due 2020 , we sold warrants to acquire up to approximately 16.3 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $122.9220 per share. The warrant agreements contain provisions whereby the number of shares to be acquired under the warrants and the strike price are adjusted if we pay a cash dividend greater than a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.225 per share to holders of our common stock. Adjusting for dividends paid through January 3, 2016 , holders of the warrants may acquire up to approximately 16.4 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $122.3181 per share as of January 3, 2016 . The warrants mature on 40 different dates from January 13, 2021 through March 11, 2021 , are automatically exercised at maturity, and are settled on a net share basis. The value of the warrants was initially recorded in equity and through January 3, 2016, continued to be classified as equity. Subsequent to January 3, 2016 , we amended 60% of the warrants associated with the 0.5% Notes due 2020 to specify the methodologies to determine the amount that will be payable to the warrant counterparties upon the closing of the merger with Western Digital . If the merger with Western Digital does not close, such warrants will remain outstanding, with an agreement with respect to 40% of the warrants associated with the 0.5% Notes due 2020 containing a potential downward adjustment to the strike price to reflect the economic effect of the merger announcement on the warrants. We expect that in the first quarter of 2016, we will incur charges in other income (expense) related to warrant amendments. We are continuing discussions regarding potential modifications with the remaining warrant counterparties. Ventures with Toshiba. We are a 49.9% owner of each entity within Flash Ventures, our business ventures with Toshiba to develop and manufacture NAND flash memory products. These NAND flash memory products are manufactured by Toshiba at Toshibas Yokkaichi, Japan operations using the semiconductor manufacturing equipment owned or leased by Flash Ventures. This equipment is funded, or will be funded, by investments in, or loans to, Flash Ventures from us and Toshiba as well as through operating leases received by Flash Ventures from third-party banks and guaranteed by us and Toshiba. The entities within Flash Ventures purchase wafers from Toshiba at cost and then resell those wafers to us and Toshiba at cost plus a markup. We are contractually obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures NAND wafer supply or pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures. We are not able to estimate our total wafer purchase obligations beyond our rolling three month purchase commitment because the price is determined by reference to the future cost to produce the semiconductor wafers. We are also committed to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures costs to the extent that Flash Ventures revenue from wafer sales to us and Toshiba are insufficient to cover these costs. See Note 14 , Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees and Note 15 , Related Parties and Strategic Investments , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. From time-to-time, we and Toshiba mutually approve the purchase of equipment for Flash Ventures in order to convert to new process technologies or add wafer capacity. Flash Partners share of Fab 3 and Flash Alliances share of Fab 4 have been previously equipped to full wafer capacity. Fab 5, which is primarily utilized by Flash Forward, was built in two phases of approximately equal size . Phase 1 of Fab 5 is fully equipped and the majority of Phase 2 of Fab 5 is equipped . To date, we have invested in approximately 50% of Flash Forwards equipment, and the output has been shared equally between us and Toshiba. In October 2015, we entered into a facility agreement , the New Fab 2 Agreement , with Toshiba related to the construction and operation of Toshibas New Fab 2 fabrication facility, which is primarily intended to provide space to convert 2D NAND capacity to 3D NAND. We expect that the New Fab 2 space will accommodate conversion of somewhat less than half of the current Fab 3, Fab 4 and Fab 5 2D NAND capacity to 3D NAND. We began production wafers in New Fab 2 in January 2016. Under the New Fab 2 Agreement , we are committed to 50% of New Fab 2 s start-up costs, as well as 50% of the initial production ramp in New Fab 2 . We expect to expand Flash Ventures wafer capacity by approximately 5% in 2016. The cost of the wafers we purchase from Flash Ventures is recorded in inventory and ultimately cost of revenue. Entities within Flash Ventures are variable interest entities; however, we are not the primary beneficiary of these ventures because we do not have a controlling financial interest in each venture. Accordingly, we account for our investments under the equity method and do not consolidate. For semiconductor manufacturing equipment that is leased by Flash Ventures, we and Toshiba each guarantee, on an unsecured and several basis, 50% of the outstanding Flash Ventures lease obligations under master lease agreements entered into by Flash Ventures. These master lease obligations are denominated in Japanese yen and are noncancelable. Our total master lease obligation guarantees as of January 3, 2016 were $766 million based upon the exchange rate at January 3, 2016 . 70 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our contractual obligations and off-balance sheet arrangements at January 3, 2016 and the effect those contractual obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow over the next five years are presented in textual and tabular format in Note 14 , Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Impact of Currency Exchange Rates Exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our most significant foreign currency exposure is to the Japanese yen in which we purchase substantially all of our NAND flash wafers and incur R&D expenditures. In addition, we also have significant costs denominated in the Chinese renminbi, the Israeli new shekel and the Malaysian ringgit, and we have revenue denominated in the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Chinese renminbi, the European euro and the Japanese yen. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. We generally use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate transaction gains and losses generated by certain monetary assets, liabilities and net investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. From time-to-time, we use foreign currency forward contracts to partially hedge our future Japanese yen requirements for NAND flash wafers and R&D expenses. Our derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in assets or liabilities with final gains or losses recorded in other income (expense) or as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI, and subsequently reclassified into cost of revenue in the same period or periods in which the cost of revenue is recognized or into R&D expense as the R&D expenses are incurred. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. These foreign currency exchange exposures may change over time as our business and business practices evolve, and they could harm our financial results and cash flows. See Note 4 , Derivatives and Hedging Activities , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Our captive flash memory costs, which are included in cost of revenue, are denominated in Japanese yen, and generally comprise somewhat less than 50% of our cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue in any given quarter generally reflects wafer purchases that were made in the previous quarter, and is impacted by hedging decisions we may make from time to time, including entering into forward contracts or other instruments to hedge our future Japanese yen purchase rate. Based on wafer purchases made in the fourth quarter of 2015 , changes in the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate after January 3, 2016 are not expected to have a material impact on our cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2016. We expect the average rate of the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar for the first quarter of 2016 for the wafer portion of our cost of revenue to be approximately 121 Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar in comparison to a rate of approximately 123 Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar in our fourth quarter of 2015 . In late January 2016, we entered into a number of Japanese yen hedges for our wafer purchases. As of February 1, 2016, we have hedged approximately 78% of our expected captive wafer purchases for the first quarter of 2016 at a weighted average rate of approximately 119 Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar, approximately 50% of our expected captive wafer purchases for the second quarter of 2016 at a weighted average rate of approximately 118 Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar and approximately 25% of our expected captive wafer purchases for the third quarter of 2016 at a weighted average rate of approximately 117 Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar. We expect that these purchases for the first, second and third quarters of 2016 will generally be reflected in cost of revenue for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2016, respectively. For a discussion of foreign operating risks and foreign currency risks, see Part II, Item 7A,