Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin, operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, or cash flow; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding litigation or pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of acquisitions; any statements regarding expected restructuring costs and benefits; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements regarding the potential or expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition; any statements regarding the impact of future potential tariffs on our business; any statements regarding the impact of changes in tax laws; any statements relating to the expected impact of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted; any statements regarding future repurchases of our common stock; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors and others should note that the Company announces material financial information to its investors using its investor relations website ( http://ir.sanmina.com/investor-relations/overview/default.aspx ), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. The Company uses these channels to communicate with its investors and the public about the Company, its products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information the Company posts on its investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, the Company encourages investors, the media, and others interested in the Company to review the information it posts on its investor relations website. The contents of our investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into this quarterly report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Sanmina Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company, we or us) operate on a 52 or 53 week year ending on the Saturday nearest September 30. Fiscal 2021 will be a 52-week year and fiscal 2020 was a 53-week year, with the extra week included in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. All references to years relate to fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that serve the industrial, medical, defense and aerospace, automotive, communications networks and cloud infrastructure solutions industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1. Integrated Manufacturing Solutions ("IMS"). Our IMS segment consists of printed circuit board assembly and test, high-level assembly and test, and direct-order-fulfillment. 2. Components, Products and Services ("CPS"). Components include interconnect systems (printed circuit board fabrication, backplane, cable assemblies and plastic injection molding) and mechanical systems (enclosures and precision machining). Products include memory from our Viking Technology division; enterprise solutions from our Viking Enterprise Solutions division; RF, optical and microelectronic; defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology; and cloud-based manufacturing execution software from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering, logistics and repair services. Our only reportable segment for financial reporting purposes is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in the first quarter of 2021. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments, which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments under the accounting rules for segment reporting. 21 Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is aggregated and presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive product and service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. This includes companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has created a unique and challenging environment in which our revenue and profitability have been impacted and will likely continue to be negatively impacted in at least the near term. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic. Our results of operations have been negatively impacted by rapidly changing market and economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 outbreak, as well as by numerous measures imposed by government authorities to try to contain the virus. These conditions and measures disrupted our operations and those of our customers, interrupted the supply of components, limited the types of products we could manufacture and the capacity of our logistics providers to deliver those products, and resulted in temporary closures of manufacturing sites and reduced staffing as mandated by government orders. Although employee infections have not yet had a significant impact on our operations, these conditions and measures require us to perform contact tracing, exclude potentially infected employees from the workplace and clean work areas used by infected employees. Should employee infections become widespread, they would have a significant and negative impact on our ability to sustain production at desired levels. We are unable to accurately predict the full impact that COVID-19 will have on us due to a number of uncertainties, including the impact of the pandemic on our customers' businesses, the number of employees who may become infected or exposed to infected persons whom we would then be required to exclude from our plants, the imposition of government restrictions on staffing and the types of products we are permitted to build, the need for temporary plant closures, supply chain shortages and other interruptions, the capacity of our logistic providers, the duration of the outbreak, the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, the geographic locations of any future outbreaks, and actions that government authorities may take. However, it is likely that the pandemic will continue to have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future. Separately, we incurred restructuring charges of approximately $19 million, consisting of severance costs, under our company-wide restructuring plan adopted in October 2019 ("Q1 FY20 Plan"). Additional actions under the Q1 FY20 Plan are expected to be implemented through the second quarter of 2021 and cash payments of severance are expected to occur through the fourth quarter of 2021. A small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers have typically represented approximately 55% of our net sales. One customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and two customers each represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended December 28, 2019. We typically generate about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to manufacture in lower cost regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and can cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically purchases its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products, which can have the effect of reducing revenue and profitability. In addition, some customer contracts contain cost reduction objectives, which can also have the effect of reducing revenue from such customers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on 22 a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy and financial markets have been disrupted and there is a significant amount of uncertainty about the length and severity of the consequences caused by the pandemic. We have considered information available to us as of the date of issuance of these financial statements and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that would require an update to our estimates or judgments, or a revision to the carrying value of our assets or liabilities. Our estimates may change as new events occur and additional information becomes available. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. A complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2020 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,755,249 $ 1,840,171 Gross profit $ 141,235 $ 134,882 Operating income $ 75,559 $ 57,181 Net income $ 48,021 $ 38,345 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019 Increase/(Decrease) Industrial, Medical, Defense and Automotive $ 1,032,518 $ 1,107,547 $ (75,029) (6.8) % Communications Networks and Cloud Infrastructure 722,731 732,624 (9,893) (1.4) % Total $ 1,755,249 $ 1,840,171 $ (84,922) (4.6) % Net sales decreased from $1.84 billion in the first quarter of 2020 to $1.76 billion in the first quarter of 2021, a decrease of 4.6%. This decrease was primarily due to reduced demand from end customers in our industrial market. Gross Margin Gross margin increased to 8.0% for the first quarter of 2021 from 7.3% for the first quarter of 2020. IMS gross margin increased to 7.3% for the first quarter of 2021, from 6.6% for the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to increased operational efficiencies and cost reduction and containment efforts implemented in 2020, some of which were in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. CPS gross margin increased to 12.4% for the first quarter of 2021, from 10.9% for the first quarter of 2020, primarily due to continued benefits of certain plant closures during the past two years and the factors described above with respect to the IMS gross margin. We have experienced fluctuations in gross margin in the past and may continue to do so in the future . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , including: the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, the operations of our suppliers and on our customers' businesses; capacity utilization which, if lower, results in lower margins due to fixed costs being absorbed by lower volumes; 23 changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; the amount of our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including those associated with distressed customers; levels of operational efficiency and production yields; customer design changes that may increase our costs and delay or reduce our production of products; and our ability to transition the location of and ramp manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, General and Administrative expenses decreased $4.2 million, from $63.2 million, or 3.4% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2020 to $59.0 million, or 3.4% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2021. The decrease in dollars was primarily due to reduced headcount as a result of actions under our Q1 FY20 restructuring plan and reduced travel and certain other expenses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Research and Development Research and Development expenses decreased $0.4 million, from $5.2 million, or 0.3% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2020 to $4.8 million, or 0.3% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2021. Restructuring The following table provides a summary of restructuring costs: Restructuring Expense Three Months Ended January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019 (In thousands) Severance costs (approximately 45 and 1,450 employees for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively) $ 835 $ 6,728 Other exit costs 8 Total - Q1 FY20 Plan 835 6,736 Costs incurred for other plans 1,069 2,424 Total - all plans $ 1,904 $ 9,160 Q1 FY20 Plan On October 28, 2019, we adopted a Company-wide restructuring plan ("Q1 FY20 Plan"). Under this plan, we expect to incur restructuring charges of up to $20 million, consisting primarily of cash severance costs. As of January 2, 2021, we incurred restructuring charges of approximately $19 million, consisting of severance costs, under the Q1 FY20 Plan. Additional actions under this plan are expected to be implemented through the second quarter of fiscal 2021 and cash payments of severance are expected to occur through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Other Plans Other plans include a number of plans for which costs are not expected to be material individually or in the aggregate. All Plans Our IMS segment incurred costs of $0.6 million and $7 million for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. Our CPS segment incurred costs of $1 million and $2 million for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. In addition, $0.3 million of costs were incurred during the three months ended January 2, 2021 for corporate headcount reductions that were not allocated to our IMS and CPS segments. We had 24 accrued liabilities of $7 million and $9 million as of January 2, 2021 and October 3, 2020, respectively, for restructuring costs (exclusive of long-term environmental remediation liabilities). In addition to costs expected to be incurred under the Q1 FY20 Plan, we expect to incur restructuring costs in future periods primarily for vacant facilities and former sites for which we are or may be responsible for environmental remediation. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019 was $25 million (34% of income before taxes) and $15 million (28% of income before taxes), respectively. Income tax expense for the three months ended January 2, 2021 increased primarily as a result of an increase in income before tax and $4 million of discrete tax items. It is reasonably possible that our liability for uncertain tax positions could decrease significantly in the next 12 months upon the resolution of audits and expiration of statutes of limitations, resulting in a decrease in income tax expense at that time. 25 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended January 2, 2021 December 28, 2019 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 61,811 $ 21,171 Investing activities (11,191) (28,046) Financing activities (16,160) (17,386) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,044 84 Increase (Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 35,504 $ (24,177) Key Working Capital Management Measures As of January 2, 2021 October 3, 2020 Days sales outstanding (1) 55 54 Contract asset days (2) 19 20 Inventory turns (3) 7.7 7.3 Days inventory on hand (4) 48 50 Accounts payable days (5) 67 70 Cash cycle days (6) 55 54 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or "DSO", is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Contract asset days (a measure of how quickly we transfer contract assets to accounts receivable) are calculated as the ratio of average contract assets to average daily net sales for the quarter. (3) Inventory turns (annualized) (a measure of how quickly we sell inventory) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (4) Days inventory on hand (a measure of how quickly we turn inventory into sales) is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (5) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or "DPO", is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (6) Cash cycle days (a measure of how quickly we convert investments in inventory to cash) is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding and contract assets days minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $516 million at January 2, 2021 and $481 million at October 3, 2020. Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under our credit facilities, sales of accounts receivable under numerous programs we utilize, repurchases of capital stock and other factors. Our working capital was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of January 2, 2021 and October 3, 2020, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $62 million and $21 million for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, impairments and stock-based compensation expense and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, contract assets, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, the extent to which we factor customer receivables and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. 26 During the three months ended January 2, 2021, we generated $87 million of cash primarily from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and consumed $25 million of cash due primarily to a decrease in accounts payable and an increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by decreases in contract assets and inventories and an increase in accrued liabilities. The decreases noted above were primarily due to decreased business volume. Individual components of operating assets and liabilities fluctuate for a number of reasons, including linearity of purchases and sales, the mix of customer and supplier payment terms within our accounts receivable and accounts payable, and the amount and timing of sales of accounts receivable. The decrease in accounts payable attributable to reduced business volume as discussed above was partially offset by a decrease in our DPO from 70 days as of October 3, 2020 to 67 days as of January 2, 2021 due primarily to an unfavorable shift in the linearity of material receipts and unfavorable supplier payment terms mix. Net cash used in investing activities was $11 million and $28 million for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. During the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, we used $11 million and $28 million, respectively, of cash for capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $16 million and $17 million for the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. During the three months ended January 2, 2021, we used $13 million of cash to repurchase common stock (including $3 million related to employee tax withholding on vested restricted stock units), repaid an aggregate of $5 million of long-term debt and received $1 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. During the three months ended December 28, 2019, we repaid $5 million of the Term Loan due 2023 ("Term Loan"), used $17 million of cash to repurchase common stock (including $8 million related to employee tax withholding on vested restricted stock units) and received $4 million net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Other Liquidity Matters Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock, subject to a dollar limitation. The timing of repurchases depends upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. We repurchased 0.4 million and 0.3 million shares of our common stock for $9 million and $9 million during the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, respectively. As of January 2, 2021, $125 million remains available under the stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors, which does not have an expiration date. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value and to offset the dilution that results from the issuance of shares under our equity plans, repurchases of shares also reduce our liquidity. As a result, the timing of future repurchases depends upon our future capital needs, market conditions and other factors. We entered into a Receivable Purchase Agreement (the RPA) with certain third-party banking institutions for the sale of trade receivables generated from sales to certain customers, subject to acceptance by, and a funding commitment from, the banks that are party to the RPA. As of January 2, 2021, a maximum of $555 million of sold receivables can be outstanding at any point in time under this program, as amended, subject to limitations under our Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Amended Cash Flow Revolver"). Additionally, the amount available under the RPA is uncommitted and, as such, is available at the discretion of our third-party banking institutions. On January 16, 2019, we entered into an amendment to our Amended Cash Flow Revolver which increased the percentage of our total accounts receivable that can be sold and outstanding at any time from 30% to 40%. Trade receivables sold pursuant to the RPA are serviced by us. In addition to the RPA, we have the option to participate in trade receivables sales programs that have been implemented by certain of our customers, as in effect from time to time. We do not service trade receivables sold under these other programs. The sale of receivables under all of these programs is subject to the approval of the banks or customers involved and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the maximum amount of receivables permitted by these programs when desired. Under each of the programs noted above, we sell our entire interest in a trade receivable for 100% of face value, less a discount. During the three months ended January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, we sold approximately $263 million and $538 million, respectively, of accounts receivable under these programs. Upon sale, these receivables are removed from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and cash received is presented as cash provided by operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Discounts on sold receivables were not material for any period presented. As of January 2, 2021 and October 3, 2020, $52 million and $97 million, respectively, of accounts receivable sold under the RPA and subject to servicing by us remained outstanding and had not yet been collected. Our sole risk with respect to receivables we service is with respect to commercial disputes regarding such receivables. Commercial disputes include billing errors, returns 27 and similar matters. To date, we have not been required to repurchase any receivable we have sold due to a commercial dispute. Additionally, we are required to remit amounts collected as servicer on a weekly basis to the financial institutions that purchased the receivables. As of January 2, 2021 and October 3, 2020, $44 million and $39 million, respectively, had been collected but not yet remitted. This amount is classified in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. We enter into forward interest rate swap agreements with independent counterparties to partially hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (LIBOR) associated with anticipated variable rate borrowings. These interest rate swaps have a maturity date of December 1, 2023, and effectively convert our variable interest rate obligations to fixed interest rate obligations. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $350 million were outstanding as of January 2, 2021 and October 3, 2020. The aggregate effective interest rate under these swaps as of January 2, 2021 was approximately 4.3%. As of January 2, 2021, due to a decline in interest rates since the time the swaps were put in place, these interest rate swaps had a negative value of $26 million as of January 2, 2021, of which $9 million is included in accrued liabilities and the remaining amount is included in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, regulatory, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of January 2, 2021, we had accrued liabilities of $39 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. As of January 2, 2021, we had a liability of $122 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including sales of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. We generated $62 million of cash from operations in the first quarter of 2021. Our primary sources of liquidity as of January 2, 2021 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $516 million; (2) our Amended Cash Flow Revolver, under which $692 million, net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available; (3) our foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $69 million, all of which was available; (4) proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs, if accepted by the counterparties to such programs; and (5) cash generated from operations. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolver commitments under the Amended Cash Flow Revolver by an additional $200 million. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, should demand for our services decrease significantly over the next 12 months or should we experience significant increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable for any reason, including in particular continued or worsening economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, our cash provided by operations could decrease significantly and we could be required to seek additional sources of liquidity to continue our operations at their current level. We distribute our cash among a number of financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. As of January 2, 2021, 49% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Amended Cash Flow Revolver and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 2, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial 28 condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 29