Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin, operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, or cash flow; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding litigation or pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of acquisitions and other strategic transactions, including our Indian joint venture; any statements regarding expected restructuring costs and benefits; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition; any statements regarding the potential impact of supply chain shortages and inflation on our business; any statements regarding the future impact of tariffs and export controls on our business; any statements relating to our expectations concerning developments in the audit by the IRS of certain tax returns filed by us, including the potential impact of the IRS revenue agents report recently received by us; any statements relating to the expected impact of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted;any statements regarding future repurchases of our common stock; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Investors and others should note that Sanmina announces material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://ir.sanmina.com/investor-relations/overview/default.aspx), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about Sanmina, its products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Sanmina to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The contents of our investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into this quarterly report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Sanmina Corporation and its subsidiaries (Sanmina, the Company, we or us) operate on a 52 or 53 week year ending on the Saturday nearest September 30. Fiscal 2024 and 2023 are each 52-week years. All references to years relate to fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that serve the industrial, medical, defense and aerospace, automotive, communications networks and cloud solutions industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1.Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). Our IMS segment consists of printed circuit board assembly and test, high-level assembly and test and direct-order-fulfillment. 2.Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include printed circuit boards, backplanes and backplane assemblies, cable assemblies, fabricated metal parts, precision machined parts, and plastic injected molded parts. Products include optical, radio frequency (RF) and microelectronic design and manufacturing services from our Advanced Microsystems Technologies division; multi-chip package memory solutions from our Viking Technology division; high-performance storage platforms for hyperscale and enterprise solutions from our Viking Enterprise Solutions division; defense and aerospace product, design, manufacturing, repair and refurbishment services from our SCI Technology Inc. (SCI) subsidiary; and cloud-based smart manufacturing execution software from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering, and logistics and repair. 20 Our only reportable segment for financial reporting purposes is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue for the three months ended December 30, 2023. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is combined and presented in a single category entitled CPS. Trends and Uncertainties Our business has been exposed to macroeconomic challenges such as inflation, supply chain constraints, foreign currency fluctuations, rising interest rates, market volatility, recession concerns and other factors that have been exacerbated by recent geopolitical conflicts such as the war in Ukraine and conflict in the Middle East. Although the supply chain constraints continue to ease, we expect to see some headwinds to our revenue growth at least in the short term due to customers making adjustments to inventory levels in some of our end markets, combined with softness in the economy. Despite these many challenges, we remain focused on improving our operations, building flexibility and efficiencies in our processes and adjusting our business models to changing circumstances. We intend to continue diversifying into mission critical markets, creating a portfolio with longer product life cycles and higher technology and complex products. As our end markets evolve and grow, our ability to optimize our product and portfolio mix towards higher value opportunities will continue to be an important driver for our business going forward. Additionally, given that maintaining low costs is a cornerstone to our success and growth, we proactively handle cost impacts through a combination of well-calibrated pricing actions and targeted cost-saving measures to enhance overall stockholder value. The overall impact of these challenges on our financial condition and operating results will depend on the severity of the macroeconomic factors and the duration of geopolitical conflicts. There can be no assurance that the measures we take will counteract the negative impact of these challenges. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies, as well as estimates related to costs expected to be incurred to satisfy performance obligations under long-term contracts and variable consideration related to such contracts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. A complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 filed with the SEC on November 16, 2023. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,874,798 $ 2,355,808 Gross profit $ 160,840 $ 195,386 Operating income $ 87,576 $ 128,426 Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 57,068 $ 92,014 21 Net Sales Net sales decreased to $1.9 billion for the three months ended December 30, 2023 from $2.4 billion for the three months ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of 20.4%. Sales by end market were as follows: Three Months Ended December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in thousands) Industrial, Medical, Defense and Aerospace, and Automotive $ 1,256,393 $ 1,340,028 $ (83,635) (6.2) % Communications Networks and Cloud Infrastructure 618,405 1,015,780 (397,375) (39.1) % Total $ 1,874,798 $ 2,355,808 $ (481,010) (20.4) % Net sales decreased 20.4% in the three months ended December 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2022, primarily driven by reduced demand in our telecommunications end market and customers in other markets making adjustments to inventory levels. The impact of these factors was partially offset by new program wins. Gross Margin Gross margin was 8.6% and 8.3% for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. IMS gross margin increased to 7.6% for the three months ended December 30, 2023 from 6.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to improved operating efficiencies and better margins from easing of supply chain constraints which, in the prior year, increased the cost of components and we passed the increased cost to our customers with little-to-no markup. CPS gross margin decreased to 13.0% for the three months ended December 30, 2023 from 14.5% for the three months ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to lower volume and reduced operating efficiencies. We have experienced fluctuations in gross margin in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors, including: the impacts of supply chain constraints on our operations, the operations of our suppliers and on our customers businesses; capacity utilization which, if lower, results in lower margins due to fixed costs being absorbed by lower volumes; changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; competition and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; the amount of our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including those associated with distressed customers; levels of operational efficiency and production yields; our performance on long-term contracts, including our ability to recover claims for cost overruns; and our ability to transition the location of and ramp manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 were $65 million and $61 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 3.5% and 2.6% for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher incentive compensation and an increase in our deferred compensation liability resulting from strong stock market performance that increased the market value of participant investment accounts. Other Expense Other expense for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was $1 million and $7 million, respectively. The decrease in other expense was primarily due to a $3 million decrease in fees for accounts receivable factoring 22 and a gain of $4 million in the market value of participant investment accounts in our deferred compensation plan compared to the same period in 2023. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was $21 million (26% of income before taxes) and $21 million (18% of income before taxes), respectively. The effective tax rate was lower for the year ended December 31, 2022 due to an approximate $8 million release of tax reserves. As a result of an audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, we received a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) on November 17, 2023 asserting an underpayment of tax of approximately $8 million for fiscal year 2009. The asserted underpayment results from the IRSs proposed disallowance of a $503 million worthless stock deduction in fiscal year 2009. Such disallowance, if upheld, would reduce our available net operating loss carryforwards and result in additional tax and interest attributable to fiscal year 2021 and later years, which could be material. We disagree with the IRSs position as asserted in the RAR and intend to vigorously contest this matter through the applicable IRS administrative and judicial procedures, as appropriate. We do not expect resolution of this matter within twelve months and cannot predict with any certainty the timing of such resolution. Although the final resolution of this matter remains uncertain, we continue to believe that it is more likely than not our tax position will be sustained. However, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material adverse impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 126,025 $ 37,224 Investing activities (34,816) (37,330) Financing activities (128,439) 203,588 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,250 1,975 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (35,980) $ 205,457 Key Working Capital Management Measures As of December 30, 2023 September 30, 2023 Days sales outstanding (1) 56 55 Contract asset days (2) 21 20 Inventory turns (3) 4.8 5.1 Days inventory on hand (4) 76 72 Accounts payable days (5) 80 81 Cash cycle days (6) 73 66 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or DSO, is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Contract asset days (a measure of how quickly we transfer contract assets to accounts receivable) are calculated as the ratio of average contract assets to average daily net sales for the quarter. (3) Inventory turns (annualized) (a measure of how quickly we sell inventory) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (4) Days inventory on hand (a measure of how quickly we turn inventory into sales) is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (5) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or DPO, is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (6) Cash cycle days (a measure of how quickly we convert investments in inventory to cash) is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding and contract assets days minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $632 million at December 30, 2023 and $668 million at September 30, 2023. Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under our credit facilities, sales of accounts receivable under numerous programs we utilize, repurchases of common stock and other factors. Our working capital was $1.8 billion as of December 30, 2023 and September 30, 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities was $126 million and $37 million for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, the extent to which we factor customer receivables and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During the three months ended December 30, 2023, we generated $109 million of cash primarily from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and generated $17 million of cash due primarily to decreases in accounts receivable and inventory, which were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable. Individual components of operating assets and liabilities fluctuate 24 for a number of reasons, including linearity of purchases and sales, the mix of customer and supplier payment terms within our accounts receivable and accounts payable, and the amount and timing of sales of accounts receivable. The decrease in accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable was primarily attributable to a decrease in business volume. Net cash used in investing activities was $35 million and $37 million for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. During the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we used $34 million and $37 million, respectively, of cash for capital expenditures. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(128) million and $204 million for the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. During the three months ended December 30, 2023, we used $116 million of cash to repurchase common stock (including $10 million paid to applicable tax authorities in connection with these repurchases) and repayment of $13 million of borrowings. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, we received $216 million from sale of shares to Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited (RSBVL), used $8 million of cash to repurchase common stock primarily related to employee tax withholding on vested restricted stock units and repaid $4 million of long-term debt. Other Liquidity Matters During the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we repurchased 2 million shares of our common stock for $106 million under stock repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. These programs have no expiration dates and the timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, they also reduce our liquidity. As of December 30, 2023, an aggregate of $174 million remained available under these programs. We are party to a Receivables Purchase Agreement (the RPA) with certain third-party banking institutions for the sale of trade receivables generated from sales to certain customers. The amount available under the RPA is uncommitted and, as such, is available at the discretion of our third-party banking institutions. Under the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement), the percentage of our total accounts receivable that can be sold and outstanding at any time is 50%. Therefore, as of December 30, 2023, a maximum of $450 million of sold receivables could be outstanding at any point in time under this program, as amended, as required by our Credit Agreement. Trade receivables sold pursuant to the RPA are serviced by us. In addition to the RPA, we participate in trade receivables sales programs that have been implemented by certain of our customers, as in effect from time to time. We do not service trade receivables sold under these other programs. The sale of receivables under all of these programs is subject to the approval of the banks or customers involved and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the maximum amount of receivables permitted by these programs when desired. Under each of the programs noted above, we sell our entire interest in a trade receivable for 100% of face value, less a discount. During the three months ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we sold approximately $407 million and $796 million, respectively, of accounts receivable under these programs. As of December 30, 2023 and September 30, 2023, $146 million and $162 million, respectively, of accounts receivable sold under the RPA and subject to servicing by us remained outstanding and had not yet been collected. Our sole risk with respect to receivables we service is with respect to commercial disputes regarding such receivables. Commercial disputes include billing errors, returns and similar matters. To date, we have not been required to repurchase any receivable we have sold due to a commercial dispute. Additionally, we are required to remit amounts collected as servicer on a weekly basis to the financial institutions that purchased the receivables. As of December 30, 2023 and September 30, 2023, $24 million and $33 million, respectively, had been collected but not yet remitted. This amount is classified in accrued liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. We enter into forward interest rate swap agreements with independent counterparties to partially hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in the Secured Overnight Financing Rate benchmark interest rate associated with anticipated variable rate borrowings. See Note 3, Financial Instruments of the notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for details. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, regulatory, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of December 30, 2023, we had accrued liabilities of $35 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. 25 As of December 30, 2023, we had a liability of $54 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity is largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including sales of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. We generated $126 million of cash from operations for the three months ended December 30, 2023. Our primary sources of liquidity as of December 30, 2023 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $632 million (an aggregate of $217 million of our cash is held by Sanmina SCI India Private Limited (SIPL), our existing Indian manufacturing entity, that may not be used for general corporate purposes and must be retained in SIPL to fund its operations); (2) our Credit Agreement, under which $787 million, net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available; (3) our foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $71 million, all of which was available; (4) proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and (5) cash generated from operations. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $200 million. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, should demand for our services decrease significantly over the next twelve months, should we be unable to recover on inventory obligations owed to us by our customers or should we experience significant increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable for any reason, our cash provided by operations could decrease significantly and we could be required to seek additional sources of liquidity to continue our operations at their current level. We invest our cash among a number of financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. As of December 30, 2023, 33% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Credit Agreement and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Information regarding our contractual obligations was provided in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. There were no material changes in our contractual obligations as of December 30, 2023. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 30, 2023, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 26