Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin, operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, or cash flow; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding litigation or pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of acquisitions and other strategic transactions, including our Indian joint venture; any statements regarding expected restructuring costs and benefits; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition; any statements regarding the potential impact of supply chain shortages and inflation on our business; any statements regarding the future impact of tariffs and export controls on our business; any statements relating to the expected impact of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted; any statements regarding future repurchases of our common stock; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors and others should note that Sanmina announces material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website ( http://ir.sanmina.com/investor-relations/overview/default.aspx ), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about Sanmina, its products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Sanmina to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The contents of our investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into this quarterly report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Sanmina Corporation and its subsidiaries (Sanmina, the Company, we or us) operate on a 52 or 53 week year ending on the Saturday nearest September 30. Fiscal 2023 and 2022 are each 52-week years. All references to years relate to fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that serve the industrial, medical, defense and aerospace, automotive, communications networks and cloud solutions industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1. Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). Our IMS segment consists of printed circuit board assembly and test, high-level assembly and test and direct-order-fulfillment. 2. Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include printed circuit boards, backplanes and backplane assemblies, cable assemblies, fabricated metal parts, precision machined parts, and plastic injected molded parts. Products include memory solutions from our Viking Technology division; high-performance storage platforms for hyperscale and enterprise solutions from our Viking Enterprise Solutions (VES) division; optical, radio frequency (RF) and microelectronic (microE) design and manufacturing services from Advanced Microsystems Technologies; defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology; and cloud-based manufacturing execution software from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering and logistics and repair. Our only reportable segment for financial reporting purposes is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in the first quarter of 2023. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is combined and presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. 21 Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive product and service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets, including companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic created a unique and challenging environment in which our revenue and profitability in 2021 and 2020 were significantly and negatively impacted. These impacts arose from rapidly changing market and economic conditions caused by the pandemic, as well as by numerous measures imposed by government authorities to try to limit the spread of the virus. These conditions and measures disrupted our operations and those of our customers, interrupted the supply of components, reduced the capacity of our logistics providers to deliver the components we use and ship the products we manufacture and resulted in temporary closures of manufacturing sites and reduced staffing of our plants. Although conditions have generally improved, we cannot predict when the COVID-19 pandemic will cease to present risks to our business due to a large number of uncertainties, including the duration of ongoing supply chain constraints directly and indirectly caused by the pandemic, the long-term impact of the pandemic on our customers businesses, the number of employees who may become infected, the continued efficacy and availability of COVID-19 vaccines, the geographic locations of any future outbreaks, including outbreaks caused by variants of COVID-19, such as the Omicron variant and its subvariants, and actions that government authorities may take in response. For example, China previously maintained a zero tolerance policy towards COVID-19 infections, which disrupted our operations and our suppliers operations there. Thus, we believe the pandemic and related supply chain disruptions could continue to have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition for the foreseeable future. A small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers have typically represented approximately 50% of our net sales. One customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022. We typically generate about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to manufacture in lower cost locations in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically purchases its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products, which can have the effect of reducing revenue and profitability. In addition, some customer contracts contain cost reduction objectives, which can also have the effect of reducing revenue from such customers. The U.S., China, the E.U. and several other countries have imposed tariffs impacting certain imported products. Although our customers are generally liable to us for reimbursement of tariffs we pay on components imported for the manufacture of their products, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in recovering all of the tariffs that are owed to us. Unrecovered tariffs paid on behalf of our customers reduce our gross margins. Also, although we are required to pay tariffs upon importation of components, we may not recover these amounts from customers until sometime later, which adversely impacts our operating cash flow in a given period. However, the net impact of tariffs, after recovery from customers, has not been, and is not expected to be, material to us. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not 22 readily apparent from other sources. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy and financial markets were disrupted and there is a significant amount of uncertainty about the length and severity of the consequences caused by the pandemic. We have considered information available to us as of the date of issuance of these financial statements and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that would require an update to our estimates or judgments, or a revision to the carrying value of our assets or liabilities. Our estimates may change as new events occur and additional information becomes available. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. A complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2022 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 (In thousands) Net sales $ 2,361,361 $ 1,757,325 Gross profit $ 190,707 $ 144,489 Operating income $ 123,747 $ 81,433 Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 88,399 $ 58,634 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 Increase/(Decrease) Industrial, Medical, Defense and Automotive $ 1,345,581 $ 1,054,971 $ 290,610 27.5 % Communications Networks and Cloud Infrastructure 1,015,780 702,354 313,426 44.6 % Total $ 2,361,361 $ 1,757,325 $ 604,036 34.4 % Net sales increased 34.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended January 1, 2022. Sales in our communications networks and cloud infrastructure end market increased 44.6%, primarily driven by strong demand and improvement in material availability in our telecommunications end market. Sales to customers in our industrial, medical, defense and automotive end market increased 27.5% primarily due to new program wins and new program ramps in our industrial instrument and automotive end markets, as well as strong demand in our medical end market. Gross Margin Gross margin decreased to 8.1% for the three months ended December 31, 2022 from 8.2% for the three months ended January 1, 2022. IMS gross margin decreased to 6.9% for the first quarter of 2023, from 7.5% for the first quarter of 2022. Despite an increase in revenue, IMS gross margin decreased primarily because there was little to no markup on the increased cost of components that we were able to pass on to our customers in the first quarter of 2023 relative to the first quarter of 2022. CPS gross margin increased to 13.3% for the first quarter of 2023 from 11.6% for the first quarter of 2022, primarily due to increased volume, operational efficiencies and favorable product mix. We have experienced fluctuations in gross margin in the past and may continue to do so in the future . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , including: the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related supply chain constraints on our operations, the operations of our suppliers and on our customers businesses; capacity utilization which, if lower, results in lower margins due to fixed costs being absorbed by lower volumes; changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; 23 the amount of our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including those associated with distressed customers; levels of operational efficiency and production yields; and our ability to transition the location of and ramp manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, General and Administrative expenses decreased $0.7 million, from $61.5 million, or 3.5% of net sales, in the three months ended January 1, 2022 to $60.7 million, or 2.6% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2022. Gain on Sale of Long-lived Assets During the three months ended January 1, 2022, we recognized a $5 million gain primarily from the sale of a certain real property. Interest Income Interest income for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022 was $3 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The increase in the three months ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to interest earned from investments purchased with a portion of the cash proceeds received from the sale of an equity interest related to a joint venture transaction that closed on October 3, 2022. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022 was $9 million and $5 million, respectively. The increase in the three months ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to higher utilization of our revolving credit facility and higher interest rates during the three months ended December 31, 2022. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, was $(7) million and $2 million, respectively. The change is primarily due to a $6 million increase in accounts receivable factoring during the first quarter of 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, weakening of the US dollar against other key currencies compared to the same period in 2022, and an increase in exposure to the Indian Rupee related to a cash infusion from a joint venture transaction that closed in the first quarter of 2023. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022 was $20 million (18% of income before taxes) and $20 million (26% of income before taxes), respectively. The tax rate was lower for the three months ended December 31, 2022 due to the recognition of an $8 million tax benefit that resulted from the release of certain foreign tax reserves due to lapse of time and expiration of statutes of limitations. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest On October 3, 2022, we completed a joint venture transaction pursuant to a Share Subscription and Purchase Agreement (the SSPA) and a Joint Venture and Shareholders Agreement (the Shareholders Agreement) previously entered into with Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited (RSBVL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited. Pursuant to the SSPA and the Shareholders Agreement, the parties established Sanmina SCI India Private Limited (SIPL), our existing Indian manufacturing entity, as a joint venture to engage in manufacturing in India of telecommunications equipment, data center and internet equipment, medical equipment, clean technology equipment and other high-tech equipment. This partnership leverages our advanced manufacturing experience and RSBVLs expertise and leadership in the Indian business ecosystem. In addition to supporting our current customer base, the joint venture will create a state-of-the-art Manufacturing Technology Center of Excellence that will serve as an incubation center to support the product development and hardware start-up ecosystem in India, as well as promote research and innovation of leading-edge technologies. 24 As a result of the transaction, RSBVL acquired shares of SIPL for approximately $216 million of cash such that RSBVL holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares of SIPL and we hold the remaining 49.9% of the outstanding shares of SIPL. In connection with RSBVLs investment, Sanmina and RSBVL entered into a management services contract pursuant to which Sanmina has the unilateral ability to make the significant financial and operating decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business. In accordance with ASC 810, Consolidation, we are required to consolidate entities in which we have a controlling financial interest. We determined the voting interest model was applicable under ASC 810 and concluded that, despite not having a majority ownership interest, we have a controlling financial interest in SIPL through the management services contract. Therefore, we have, by contract, the unilateral ability to control the significant decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business. Because we have a controlling financial interest in SIPL, we continue to consolidate SIPL. However, we periodically assess whether any changes in facts and circumstances have occurred that could require us to deconsolidate SIPL. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest for the three months ended December 31, 2022 was $3 million. 25 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 37,224 $ 68,300 Investing activities (37,330) (17,362) Financing activities 203,588 (72,461) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,975 (786) Increase (Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 205,457 $ (22,309) Key Working Capital Management Measures As of December 31, 2022 October 1, 2022 Days sales outstanding (1) 47 48 Contract asset days (2) 19 20 Inventory turns (3) 5.1 4.9 Days inventory on hand (4) 72 74 Accounts payable days (5) 88 90 Cash cycle days (6) 50 52 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or DSO, is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Contract asset days (a measure of how quickly we transfer contract assets to accounts receivable) are calculated as the ratio of average contract assets to average daily net sales for the quarter. (3) Inventory turns (annualized) (a measure of how quickly we sell inventory) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (4) Days inventory on hand (a measure of how quickly we turn inventory into sales) is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (5) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or DPO, is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (6) Cash cycle days (a measure of how quickly we convert investments in inventory to cash) is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding and contract assets days minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $735 million at December 31, 2022 and $530 million at October 1, 2022. Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under our credit facilities, sales of accounts receivable under numerous programs we utilize, repurchases of common stock and other factors. Our working capital was $1.8 billion and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2022 and October 1, 2022, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $37 million and $68 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income before noncontrolling interest adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes and stock-based compensation expense, and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, contract assets, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, the extent to which we factor customer receivables and the negotiation of 26 payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, we generated $140 million of cash primarily from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and used $103 million of cash due primarily to increases in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and factoring. Individual components of operating assets and liabilities fluctuate for a number of reasons, including linearity of purchases and sales, the mix of customer and supplier payment terms within our accounts receivable and accounts payable, and the amount and timing of sales of accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily attributable to an increase in sales and billings to customers for their inventory obligations. The increase in inventory is primarily due to shortages of certain components that prevented us from shipping all products for which we had both demand and the other components necessary to build such products, as well as demand from new programs and increased demand overall. The increase in accounts payable was primarily attributable to an increase in sales and in material receipts, consistent with the increase in inventory. Net cash used in investing activities was $37 million and $17 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, we used $37 million of cash for capital expenditures. During the three months ended January 1, 2022, we used $25 million of cash for capital expenditures and received proceeds of $8 million primarily from the sale of a certain property. Net cash used in financing activities was $204 million and $72 million for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, we received $216 million from sale of shares to RSVBL and used $8 million of cash to repurchase common stock primarily related to employee tax withholding on vested restricted stock units and repaid $4 million of long-term debt. During the three months ended January 1, 2022, we used $69 million of cash to repurchase common stock (including $9 million related to employee tax withholding on vested restricted stock units), repaid an aggregate of $5 million of long-term debt and received $1 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Other Liquidity Matters During the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, we repurchased 4 thousand and 1.5 million shares of our common stock for $0.2 million and $60 million, respectively, under stock repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. These programs have no expiration dates and the timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, they also reduce our liquidity. As a result, the timing of future repurchases depends upon our future capital needs, market conditions and other factors. As of December 31, 2022, an aggregate of $164 million remains available under these programs. We are a party to a Receivable Purchase Agreement (the RPA) with certain third-party banking institutions for the sale of trade receivables generated from sales to certain customers, subject to acceptance by, and a funding commitment from, the banks that are party to the RPA. As of December 31, 2022, a maximum of $542 million of sold receivables can be outstanding at any point in time under this program, as amended, subject to limitations under our Credit Agreement. Additionally, the amount available under the RPA is uncommitted and, as such, is available at the discretion of our third-party banking institutions. Under the Credit Agreement, the percentage of our total accounts receivable that can be sold and outstanding at any time is 50%. Trade receivables sold pursuant to the RPA are serviced by us. In addition to the RPA, we participate in trade receivables sales programs that have been implemented by certain of our customers, as in effect from time to time. We do not service trade receivables sold under these other programs. The sale of receivables under all of these programs is subject to the approval of the banks or customers involved and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the maximum amount of receivables permitted by these programs when desired. Under each of the programs noted above, we sell our entire interest in a trade receivable for 100% of face value, less a discount. During the three months ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, we sold approximately $796 million and $93 million, respectively, of accounts receivable under these programs. Upon sale, these receivables are removed from the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and cash received is presented as cash provided by operating activities in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Discounts on sold receivables were not material for any period presented. As of December 31, 2022 and October 1, 2022, $149 million and $194 million, respectively, of accounts receivable sold under the RPA and subject to servicing by us remained outstanding and had not yet been collected. Our sole risk with respect to receivables we service is with respect to commercial disputes regarding such receivables. Commercial disputes 27 include billing errors, returns and similar matters. To date, we have not been required to repurchase any receivable we have sold due to a commercial dispute. Additionally, we are required to remit amounts collected as servicer on a weekly basis to the financial institutions that purchased the receivables. As of December 31, 2022 and October 1, 2022, $65 million and $49 million, respectively, had been collected but not yet remitted. This amount is classified in accrued liabilities on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. We enter into forward interest rate swap agreements with independent counterparties to partially hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in the SOFR, which is the benchmark interest rate associated with anticipated variable rate borrowings. These interest rate swaps have a maturity date of December 1, 2023 and effectively convert a portion of our variable interest rate obligations to fixed interest rate obligations. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging . Interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $350 million were outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and October 1, 2022. The aggregate effective interest rate under these swaps as of December 31, 2022 was approximately 4.1%. These interest rate swaps had positive values of $7 million as of December 31, 2022, of which the majority is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and the remaining amount is included in other assets on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, regulatory, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of December 31, 2022, we had accrued liabilities of $37 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. As of December 31, 2022, we had a liability of $52 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity is largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including sales of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. We generated $37 million of cash from operations in the first quarter of 2023. Our primary sources of liquidity as of December 31, 2022 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $735 million (an aggregate of $186 million of our cash is held by our Indian joint venture and may not be used for general corporate purposes); (2) our Credit Agreement, under which $791 million, net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available; (3) our foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $67 million, all of which was available; (4) proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and (5) cash generated from operations. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $200 million. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, should demand for our services decrease significantly over the next 12 months, should we be unable to recover on inventory obligations owed to us by our customers or should we experience significant increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable for any reason, our cash provided by operations could decrease significantly and we could be required to seek additional sources of liquidity to continue our operations at their current level. We distribute our cash among a number of financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. As of December 31, 2022, 46% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Credit Agreement and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. 28 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2022, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 29