Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 16, Business Segment, Geographic and Customer Information, to our consolidated financial statements. Risks attendant to our foreign operations can be found in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Competition For our integrated manufacturing solutions business, we face competition from other major global EMS companies such as Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Jabil Circuits, Inc. and Plexus Corp. Our components, products and services business faces competition from EMS and non-EMS companies that often have a regional product, service or industry-specific focus. In addition, our potential customers may also compare the benefits of outsourcing their manufacturing to us with the merits of manufacturing products themselves. We compete with different companies depending on the type of solution or geographic area. We believe the primary competitive factors in our industry include manufacturing technology, quality, global footprint, delivery, responsiveness, provision of value-added solutions and price. We believe our primary competitive strengths include our ability to provide global end-to-end solutions, product design and engineering resources, vertically integrated manufacturing solutions, advanced technologies, global manufacturing capabilities, global supplier base, customer focus and responsiveness, and expertise in serving diverse end markets. Intellectual Property We hold various U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications primarily related to printed circuit board technologies, methods of manufacturing printed circuit boards, enclosures, memory modules and computing (servers and storage). For other proprietary processes, we rely primarily on trade secret protection. We also have registered trademarks and pending applications in the U.S. and certain countries worldwide. A number of our patents covering certain technologies have 13 Table of Contents expired or will expire in the near future. The expiration and abandonment of patents reduces our ability to assert claims against competitors or others who use similar technologies and to license such patents to third parties. Environmental Matters We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage and use of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes, as well as the storage, treatment, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous waste that are by-products of these processes. We are also subject to occupational safety and health laws, product labeling and product content requirements, either directly or as required by our customers. Proper waste disposal is a major consideration for printed circuit board manufacturers due to the metals and chemicals used in the manufacturing process. Water used in the printed circuit board manufacturing process must be treated to remove metal particles and other contaminants before it can be discharged into municipal sanitary sewer systems. We operate on-site wastewater treatment systems at our printed circuit board manufacturing plants in order to treat wastewater generated in the fabrication process. Although the electronics assembly process generates significantly less wastewater than printed circuit board fabrication, it can also generate lead dust. As a result, it is important to maintain environmental controls. Upon vacating a facility, we are responsible for remediating the lead dust from the interior of the manufacturing facility. Although there are no applicable standards for lead dust remediation in manufacturing facilities, we endeavor to remove the residues. To date, lead dust remediation costs have not been material to our results of operations. We also monitor for airborne concentrations of lead in our buildings and are unaware of any significant lead concentrations in excess of the applicable OSHA or other local standards. We have a range of corporate programs that aim to reduce the use of hazardous materials in manufacturing. We developed corporate-wide standardized environmental management systems, auditing programs and policies to enable better management of environmental compliance activities. For example, our facilities are also certified under ISO 14001, a set of standards and procedures relating to environmental compliance management. In addition, the electronics industry must adhere to the European Union's Restrictions of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directives which are in effect since July 2006. Parallel initiatives have been adopted in other jurisdictions, including several states in the U.S. and the Peoples' Republic of China. RoHS limits the use of lead, mercury and other specified substances in electronics products. WEEE requires producers to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. We implemented procedures intended to ensure our manufacturing processes are compliant with RoHS and the European Union's Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) legislation, when required. WEEE compliance is primarily the responsibility of OEMs. Asbestos containing materials, or ACM, are present at several of our manufacturing facilities. Although the ACM is being managed and controls have been put in place pursuant to ACM operations and maintenance plans, the presence of ACM could give rise to remediation obligations and other liabilities. Our facilities generally operate under environmental permits issued by governmental authorities. For the most part, these permits must be renewed periodically and are subject to revocation in the event of violations of environmental laws. Any such revocation may require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, adversely affecting our results of operations. Due to certain acquisitions, we have incurred liabilities associated with environmental contamination. These include ongoing investigation and remediation activities at a number of current and former sites, including Irvine, California; Owego, New York; Derry, New Hampshire; and Brockville, Ontario. In addition, we have been named in a lawsuit alleging operations at our current and former facilities in Orange County, California contributed to groundwater contamination. There are some sites, including our acquired facility in Gunzenhausen, Germany, that are known to have groundwater contamination caused by a third-party, and that third-party has provided indemnification to us for the liability. However, third-party indemnities may not be effective to reduce our liability for environmental contamination. For example, Nortel Networks which had provided us indemnification with respect to environmental investigation activities undertaken at our former Brockville site is party to bankruptcy proceedings that may cause it to not fully honor its indemnification obligations to us. As a result, we could be required to absorb the full expense of any remediation of the Brockville facility. We have also been named as a potentially responsible party at a contaminated disposal site operated by another party at the Casmalia Resources disposal site in Southern California as a result of the past disposal of hazardous waste by companies we have acquired or by our corporate predecessors. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party by the California Department of Toxic Substance Control at a waste treatment site operated by another party in San Jose, California, 14 Table of Contents allegedly as a result of waste we sent to be treated at that facility being discharged into the environment. Although liabilities for such historic disposal activities have not materially affected our financial condition to date, we cannot assure past disposal activities will not result in liability that will affect us in the future. In addition, we may be unaware of further environmental compliance issues, which could adversely affect our future operations. We use environmental consultants primarily for risk assessments and remediation, including remedial investigation and feasibility studies, remedial action planning and design and site remediation. Our consultants provide information regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, acceptable remediation alternatives and estimated costs associated with each remediation alternative. We consider their recommendations together with other information when determining the appropriate amount to accrue for environmental liabilities. Employees As of September 28, 2013, we had 40,909 employees, including 7,765 temporary employees. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. In some international locations, our employees are represented by labor unions on either a national or plant level or are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Some foreign countries also have mandatory legal provisions regarding terms of employment, severance compensation and other conditions of employment that are more restrictive than U.S. laws. Available Information Our Internet address is http://www.sanmina.com. We make available through our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov . 15 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table sets forth the name, position and age of our current executive officers and their ages as of September 28, 2013 . Name Age Position Jure Sola 62 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Robert Eulau 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Charles Kostalnick 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer Dennis Young 62 Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing Alan Reid 50 Executive Vice President of Global Human Resources Jure Sola has served as our Chief Executive Officer since April 1991, as Chairman of our Board of Directors from April 1991 to December 2001 and from December 2002 to present, and as Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors from December 2001 to December 2002. In 1980, Mr. Sola co-founded Sanmina and initially held the position of Vice President of Sales. In October 1987, he became the Vice President and General Manager of Sanmina, responsible for manufacturing operations, sales and marketing. Mr. Sola served as our President from October 1989 to March 1996. Robert Eulau has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2009. Prior to joining us, he was the Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of privately-owned Alien Technology Corporation, a developer of radio frequency identification products, from March 2006 to June 2008. Previously, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of publicly-traded Rambus Inc., a technology licensing company, from May 2001 to March 2006. Prior to Rambus, Mr. Eulau served over 15 years with Hewlett Packard Company in various leadership roles, including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of HP's Business Customer Organization, and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of HP's Computing Products business. Charles Kostalnick has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer since September 2013. Prior to joining us, he was the Senior Vice President of Avnet, Inc, a distributor of electronic components, computer products and embedded technology, from July 2010 to September 2013. Previously, he was President of North America Distribution and held other leadership roles at Bell Micoproducts, Inc. (acquired by Avnet, Inc. in July 2010), a distributor of storage products and systems, computer products and peripherals, from October 2005 to July 2010. Prior to Bell Microproducts, Mr. Kostalnick held various roles at Arrow Electronics, including Vice President of Sales, OEM Computing Solutions, Area Director and Regional Director, from March 2000 to October 2005. Dennis Young has served as our Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing since March 2003. Prior to joining us, Mr. Young was Senior Vice President of Sales from May 2002 to March 2003 and Vice President of Sales, from March 1998 to May 2002, of Pioneer-Standard Electronics, a provider of industrial and consumer electronic products. Alan Reid has served as our Executive Vice President of Global Human Resources since October 2012. Mr. Reid has held various roles at Sanmina, including Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources and Human Resources Director of EMEA, from July 2001 to October 2012. Prior to joining us, he was Group Human Resources Manager at Kymata Ltd., an optoelectronic technology startup from June 2000 to July 2001. Prior to Kymata, Mr. Reid held various roles in operations and human resources with The BOC Group PLC., (British Oxygen Company), a global industrial gases and engineering company, from September 1986 to June 2000. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Adverse market conditions in the electronics industry could reduce our future sales and earnings per share. We cannot accurately predict future levels of demand for our customers' electronics products. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows. Adverse worldwide economic conditions, particularly in Europe, have in the recent past led to challenging conditions in the electronics industry. A number of factors, including price instability, the availability and cost of credit, high global unemployment and concerns about the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations have slowed global economic growth in many countries. These conditions have resulted in some of our customers delaying purchases or placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously experienced or anticipated. If such conditions persist or return, they could also cause a reduction in orders from our customers or potential customers due to a reduced availability of credit and the insolvency of one or more customers or suppliers. Any of these factors could reduce our revenues, increase our costs and decrease our liquidity. Our customers could experience credit problems, which would reduce our future revenues and net income. Many of the industries for which we provide products have previously experienced significant financial difficulty, with some of the participants filing for bankruptcy. Such financial difficulty, if experienced by one or more of our customers, may negatively affect our business due to the decreased demand from these financially distressed customers, the lengthening of customer payment terms, the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us or to purchase inventory we acquired to support their businesses. For example, during 2013, we recorded charges of $6.6 million relating to a distressed customer. Customer bankruptcies also entail the risk of potential recovery by the bankruptcy estate of amounts previously paid to us that are deemed a preference under bankruptcy laws. We do not carry insurance against the risk of customer default on their payment obligations to us. We seek to mitigate the impact of collection problems with our customers on our financial results by evaluating their creditworthiness on an ongoing basis and by maintaining an allowance for doubtful accounts that is assessed for adequacy quarterly. However, should customer defaults increase substantially or exceed the level of our allowance, our revenue, net income and cash position would be reduced, perhaps significantly. We rely on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and declines in sales to these customers would reduce our net sales and net income. Sales to our ten largest customers represented approximately half of our net sales during 2013. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our sales, particularly in the communications end market. A significant reduction in sales to any of our large customers or significant pricing and margin pressures exerted by our large customers would adversely affect our operating results. In the past, some of our large customers have significantly reduced or delayed the volume of manufacturing services ordered from us as a result of changes in demand for their product, consolidations or divestitures or for other reasons. In particular, certain of our customers have from time to time entered into manufacturing divestiture transactions with other EMS companies, and such transactions could reduce our revenues with these customers. We cannot assure you that present or future large customers will not terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of manufacturing services ordered from us, any of which would reduce our net sales and net income. We are subject to intense competition in the EMS industry which could cause us to lose sales and therefore hurt our financial performance. The electronics manufacturing services (EMS) industry is highly competitive and the industry has experienced a surplus of manufacturing capacity. Our competitors include major global EMS providers such as Benchmark Electronics, Inc., Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Plexus Corp., as well as other EMS companies that have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. Some of those companies have greater manufacturing and financial resources than we do. We also face competition from current and potential OEM customers who may elect to manufacture their own products internally rather than outsourcing to EMS providers. We may not be able to offer prices as low as some of our competitors because those competitors may have lower operating costs as a result of their geographic location, greater economies of scale or the services they provide or because these competitors are willing to provide EMS services at prices we are unable or unwilling to offer. There can be no assurance that 17 Table of Contents we will not lose new or existing business in the future in response to such competitive pricing or other inducements which may be offered by our competitors, which would decrease our sales and net income. Our cash generated from operations is variable, which can adversely affect our ability to plan and invest in the business . Our ability to make capital expenditures, engage in strategic transactions, redeem debt and repurchase stock and the extent to which we need to utilize our borrowing facilities depends in large part on our ability to generate cash flow from operations. Cash flow from operations is highly variable. For example, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, cash flow from operations was $235 million , $215 million and $318 million , respectively. Our cash generated by or used in operations is impacted by a number of variables, including our growth and profitability, customer and supplier payment terms, timeliness of customer payments to us and the extent to which we need to increase inventories in response to customer forecasts. To the extent our cash flow from operations fluctuates significantly in the future, our ability to make investments in our business, redeem debt and repurchase stock could be adversely impacted. Our strategy to pursue higher margin business depends in part on the success of our Components, Products and Services (CPS) business, which, if not successful, could cause our future gross margins and operating results to be lower. A key part of our strategy is to grow our CPS business, which includes printed circuit boards, backplane and cable assemblies, mechanical systems, memory, defense and aerospace and computing products and design, engineering, logistics and repair services. A decrease in orders for these components, products and services can have a disproportionately adverse impact on our profitability since these components, products and services generally carry higher than average contribution margins. In addition, in order to grow this portion of our business profitability, we must continue to make substantial investments in the development of our product development capabilities, research and development activities, test and tooling equipment and skilled personnel, all of which reduce our operating results in the short term. The success of our CPS business also depends on our ability to increase sales of our proprietary products, convince our customers to agree to purchase our components for use in the manufacture of their products and expand the number of our customers who contract for our design, engineering, logistics and repair services. We may face challenges in achieving commercially viable yields and difficulties in manufacturing components in the quantities and to the specifications and quality standards demanded by our customers, as well as in qualifying our components for use in our customers' designs. Our proprietary products and design, engineering, logistics and repair services must compete with products and services offered by established vendors which focus solely on development of similar technologies or the provision of similar services. Any of these factors could cause our CPS revenue and margins to be less than expected, which would have an overall adverse and potentially disproportionate effect on our revenues and profitability. We may experience component shortages or price increases, which could cause us to delay shipments to customers and reduce our sales and net income. We are dependent on certain suppliers, including limited and sole source suppliers, to provide key components we incorporate into our products. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays in delivery and shortages of components, which in turn could cause delays in product shipments to customers, result in reduced revenue from and have an adverse effect on our relationship with affected customers, and our reputation generally as a reliable service provider. Component shortages can result in increased component prices which could decrease our gross profit. Component delays and shortages can also result from natural disasters occurring in the regions in which our suppliers operate, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the widespread flooding in Thailand during late 2011. We may purchase components in advance of our requirements for such components as a result of a threatened or anticipated shortage. In this event, we may incur additional inventory carrying costs and have a heightened exposure to inventory obsolescence costs, which may not be recoverable from our customers. Such costs would reduce our margins and net income. Finally, if key components become scarce, we may be required to look to second tier vendors or to procure components through brokers. Such components may be of lesser quality than those otherwise available and could cause us to incur costs to qualify such components or to replace them if they prove to be defective. Our future gross margins and operating results may be adversely impacted by reduced demand for, or execution problems with, our integrated manufacturing solutions business. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from our integrated manufacturing solutions (IMS) business. We experience continued pressure from OEMs to reduce prices for these solutions and our competition remains intense. These factors can result in reduced IMS revenue, which would reduce our gross margins. Gross margins in our IMS business can also be negatively impacted by our product mix, with lower margins resulting from the provision of less complex services, and by execution issues and operational inefficiencies at our plants. If we experience reduced demand or revenues from our IMS 18 Table of Contents business for any reason, or experience execution problems or operational inefficiencies, our gross margins and operating results in future periods may be lower than expected. Adverse changes in the key end markets we target could harm our business by reducing our sales. We provide products and services to companies that serve the communications networks, computing and storage, multimedia, industrial and semiconductor capital equipment, defense and aerospace, medical, clean technology and automotive industries. Adverse changes in any of these markets could reduce demand for our customers' products or make these customers more sensitive to the cost of our products and services, either of which could reduce our sales, gross margins and net income. A number of factors could affect any of these industries in general, or our customers in particular, and lead to reductions in net sales, thus harming our business. These factors include: intense competition among our customers and their competitors, leading to reductions in prices for their products and pricing pressures on us; short product life cycles of our customers' products leading to continuing new requirements and specifications and product obsolescence, either of which could cause us to lose business; failure of our customers' products to gain widespread commercial acceptance which could decrease the volume of orders customers place with us; and recessionary periods in our customers' markets which decrease orders from affected customers. We realize a substantial portion of our revenues from communications equipment customers. This market is highly competitive, particularly in the area of price. Should any of our larger customers in this market fail to effectively compete with their competitors, they could reduce their orders to us or experience liquidity difficulties, either of which would have the effect of reducing our revenue and net income, perhaps substantially. Revenue from our multimedia business, which is driven primarily by sales of set-top boxes, could decline as more content is delivered over the internet or through alternative methods and not through set-top boxes, particularly in the U.S. or Europe. In addition, in the case of our defense business, United States budget actions could cause a reduction or delay in orders placed by the government or defense contractors for products manufactured by SCI, our defense and aerospace division. Since such products carry higher margins than many of our other products and services, such a decrease would disproportionately reduce our gross margin and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will not experience declines in demand in these or other areas in the future. Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, which make predictability of our future sales and net income difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant uncertainties, including: conditions in the economy as a whole and in the electronics industry; fluctuations in components prices and component shortages caused by high demand, natural disaster or otherwise; timing of new product development by our customers, which creates demand for our services, but which can also require us to incur start-up costs relating to new tooling and processes; levels of demand in the end markets served by our customers; our ability to replace declining sales from end-of-life programs with new business wins; timing of orders from customers and the accuracy of their forecasts; inventory levels of customers, which if high relative to their normal sales volume, could cause them to reduce their orders to us; timing of expenditures in anticipation of increased sales, customer product delivery requirements and shortages of components or labor; increased labor costs in the regions in which we operate; mix of products ordered by and shipped to major customers, as high volume and low complexity manufacturing services typically have lower gross margins than more complex and lower volume services; degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; 19 Table of Contents our ability to maintain desired plant operating efficiencies, including achieving acceptable yields, effectively planning production and managing our inventory and fixed assets to avoid high carrying costs and excess working capital; customer insolvencies resulting in bad debt or inventory exposures that are in excess of our reserves; our ability to efficiently move manufacturing activities to lower cost regions without adversely affecting customer relationships while controlling costs related to the closure of facilities and employee severance; pricing and other competitive pressures; fluctuations in the values of our assets, including real property and assets held for sale, which could result in charges to income; volatility of foreign currency exchange rates; changes in our tax provision due to changes in our estimates of pre-tax income in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets; and political and economic developments in countries in which we have operations which could restrict our operations or increase our costs. If any of these uncertainties should be realized, our financial results could be adversely impacted. A portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders, which are difficult to predict. If we do not receive anticipated orders as expected, our profitability will decline. Moreover, our ability to reduce our costs as a result of current or future restructuring efforts may be limited because consolidation of operations can be a costly and lengthy process to complete. Consolidation in the electronics industry may adversely affect our business by increasing customer buying power and increasing prices we pay for components. Consolidation in the electronics industry among our customers, our suppliers and/or our competitors may increase as companies combine to achieve further economies of scale and other synergies. Consolidation in the electronics industry could result in an increasing number of very large electronics companies offering products in multiple sectors of the electronics industry. The significant purchasing and market power of these large companies could decrease the prices paid to us by these customers. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by another company that does not rely on us to provide EMS services either because it has its own production facilities or relies on another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer's business. Similarly, consolidation among our suppliers could result in a sole or limited source for certain components used in our customers' products. Any such consolidation could cause us to be required to pay increased prices for such components, which would reduce our gross margin and profitability. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our taxes and decrease our net income. We are subject to income, sales, value-added, withholding and other taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates and liability for other taxes could increase as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, our cash management strategies and other factors. For instance, pending Mexican legislation could significantly increase our taxes payable in Mexico in the future. In addition, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities. For example, we are currently undergoing audits of our tax returns for certain recent tax years in a number of jurisdictions, including the United States, Thailand, Hungary, Japan and Mexico. Developments in these or future audits could adversely affect our tax provisions, including through the disallowance or reduction of deferred tax assets or the assessment of back taxes, interest and penalties. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and our existing tax reserves are adequate, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical tax provisions, which could lead to an increase in our taxes payable and a decrease in our net income. Our business may experience seasonality, which could result in material changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Seasonality in our business has historically been driven by customer and product mix, particularly the end markets which our customers serve. We have observed that our revenue levels have typically been higher in the second half of 20 Table of Contents our fiscal year and lower during the first half. However, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue and the extent to which our business remains depends upon our future customer base and the end markets that they serve, which we are unable to predict. We may be unable to generate sufficient liquidity to reduce our debt levels or maintain or expand our operations, which may reduce the business our customers and vendors are able to do with us; we could experience losses if one or more financial institutions holding our funds were to fail. Our liquidity is dependent on profitability and business volume which affects working capital, including inventory requirements, the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, the degree of alignment of payment terms from our suppliers with payment terms granted to our customers, investments in facilities and equipment, acquisitions, repayments and redemptions of our outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of our common stock. In order to improve our liquidity, during the second quarter of 2012, we renewed and increased our asset-backed revolving credit facility increasing the facility to $300 million, under which we could borrow $266.4 million , net of letters of credit and outstanding borrowings, as of September 28, 2013 and in the fourth quarter of 2012, we borrowed $40 million secured by our corporate headquarters. We also have $184 million in short-term financing facilities all of which remained available to be borrowed as of September 28, 2013. Our asset-backed revolving credit facility expires in March 2017 and our foreign short-term facilities expire at various dates through the second quarter of 2015. In the event we need additional capital, whether for working capital, debt repayment, stock repurchases, acquisitions or otherwise, there can be no assurance that such additional debt or equity capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition to our existing covenant requirements, future debt financing may require us to comply with financial ratios and covenants. New financing could require us to issue additional equity securities, which could cause dilution to existing stockholders. If additional or continued financing, including the continued extension of trade credit by our suppliers, is not available when required, our liquidity would be reduced. The risks of reduced liquidity include an inability to maintain or increase our rates of production, to make necessary capital expenditures in order to maintain and expand our manufacturing capacity as needed, and to repay, reduce or refinance our debt. Any of these issues could cause our stock price to fall and reduce our customers' and vendors' willingness to do business with us. A principal source of our liquidity is our cash and cash equivalents, which are held with various financial institutions. Although we distribute such funds among a number of financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. Our credit arrangements contain covenants which may adversely impact our business and the failure to comply with such covenants could cause our outstanding debt to become immediately payable. Other than our $40 million loan secured by our corporate headquarters (the Secured Debt due 2015), our debt agreements do not contain financial covenants currently applicable to us, but do include a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. Our Secured Debt due 2015 requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio during its term. Collectively, these covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions, including refinancing our existing debt. In addition, such agreements include covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain casualty insurance. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt as well as all amounts payable under our interest rate swaps on such debt, if any, could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under our asset-backed credit facility would not be allowed, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. Redemptions of debt and repurchases of common stock reduce our working capital and liquidity; debt refinancing can entail higher interest expense, which would lower our net income; interest payments on variable rate debt can increase, which would lower our net income. During 2012 and 2013, we redeemed net $360 million and net $257.4 million of our long-term debt, respectively, and announced a $100 million stock repurchase program. Although redemptions of debt and repurchases of stock improve our financial results, these actions also reduce our liquidity. If we should redeem or repurchase additional debt or stock, our working capital and liquidity would be further reduced. In addition, should we undertake to refinance any of our outstanding long-term debt, there can be no assurance that the terms of such refinancing, particularly the interest rate, would be favorable to 21 Table of Contents us. Should we be forced to replace lower interest rate debt with higher interest rate debt, our interest expense would increase and our net income would be reduced. An aggregate of $540 million of our long-term debt and all of our short-term borrowings bear interest at a variable rate based upon LIBOR, either under the terms of such debt or as a result of interest rate swaps. Interest rates, including LIBOR, can change due to a variety of factors, including governmental debt levels, ratings downgrade of U.S. or other sovereign debt, the pace of economic growth and central bank actions. Should LIBOR increase substantially in the future for any reason, interest payments on our variable interest rate debt would also increase. At the same time, the interest rate swap counterparty for our Senior Notes due 2019 has the unilateral right, beginning in May 2014, to terminate such swap and pay us a market termination fee, in which case we would pay a 7% interest rate on such notes, which could be higher than the variable interest rate we currently pay through the swap. Any increase in the interest rates paid by us on our debt would increase our interest expense and lower our net income. We generally do not obtain long-term commitments from our customers; cancellations, reductions in production quantities, delays in production by our customers and changes in customer requirements could reduce our sales and net income. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and our bookings may generally be canceled prior to the scheduled shipment date. Customers may cancel their orders, reduce production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons, including significant decreases in demand for their products and services and decisions to engage with other EMS providers. Although the customer is generally liable for finished goods and work-in-process at the time of cancellation, we may be unable or, for other business reasons, choose not to enforce our contractual rights. Cancellations, reductions or delays of orders by customers would: reduce our sales and net income by decreasing the volumes of products that we manufacture for our customers; delay or eliminate recovery of our expenditures for inventory purchased in preparation for customer orders; and lower our asset utilization, which would result in lower gross margins and lower net income. In addition, customers sometimes require that we transfer the manufacturing of their products from one facility to another to achieve cost reductions and other objectives. These transfers have resulted in increased costs to us due to facility downtime, less than optimal utilization of our manufacturing capacity and delays and complications related to the transition of manufacturing programs to new locations. These transfers also have required us to close or reduce operations at certain facilities, particularly those in high cost locations such as the United States, Canada and Western Europe, and as a result we have incurred, and may incur in the future, significant costs for the closure of facilities, employee severance and related matters. We may be required to relocate additional manufacturing operations in the future and, accordingly, we may incur additional costs that decrease our net income. As a result of our components ordering policies and customer-requested ship dates, we may incur, and not be able to fully recover from our customers, the purchase price or carrying costs of components, work-in-process and finished goods, which would decrease our margins and net income. In order to satisfy customer orders, we are frequently required to order components and other parts in advance of customer payment, particularly for long lead-time items. Furthermore, we may be required to keep additional components, work-in-process and finished goods in inventory in order to meet customer delivery dates. While our supply agreements with our customers generally allocate most of the liability for payment for such items to the customers, we may nonetheless incur additional carrying costs or not ultimately be compensated for these items should the customer default upon its obligations. To the extent we incur any such costs, our gross margins and net income would be reduced. If we manufacture or design defective products, or if our manufacturing processes do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, we could be subject to claims, damages and fines and lose customers. We manufacture products to our customers' specifications, and in some cases our manufacturing processes and facilities need to comply with various statutory and regulatory requirements. For example, many of the medical products that we manufacture, as well as the facilities and manufacturing processes that we use to produce them must comply with standards established by the United States Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our customers' products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we design or manufacture may at times contain design or manufacturing defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or may not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we design or manufacture may result in product recalls, warranty claims by customers, including liability for repair costs, delayed shipments to customers or reduced or canceled customer orders. For example, a customer has asserted that we are liable for certain costs relating to the loss of use of products manufactured by us. Although we believe this claim is unsubstantiated, the total costs sought by the customer could 22 Table of Contents be significant. If these types of defects or deficiencies are significant, our results of operations and business reputation could be harmed. The failure of the products that we design or manufacture or of our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing program or facility. In addition, these defects may result in product liability claims against us. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand our medical, automotive, and aerospace and defense manufacturing services because defects could result in death or significant injury to end users of these products. Even if our customers are contractually responsible for defects in the design of a product, we could nonetheless be named in a product liability suit over such defects and could be required to expend significant resources to defend ourselves. We design products on a contract basis or jointly with our customers. The design services that we provide can expose us to different or greater potential liabilities than those we face when providing our regular manufacturing services. For example, we have increased exposure to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design, as well as potential claims that products we design infringe third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. Any such costs and damages could be significant and would reduce our net income. Failure to comply with domestic or international employment and related laws could result in the payment of significant damages, which would reduce our net income. We are subject to a variety of domestic and foreign employment laws, including those related to safety, wages and overtime, discrimination, whistle-blowing, classification of employees and severance payments. Enforcement activity relating to these laws, particularly outside of the United States, can increase as a result of increased media attention due to violations by other companies, changes in law, political and other factors. There can be no assurance that we won't be found to have violated such laws in the future, due to a more aggressive enforcement posture by governmental authorities or for any other reason. Any such violations could lead to the assessment of fines against us by federal, state or foreign regulatory authorities or damages payable to employees, which fines could be substantial and which would reduce our net income. Energy price increases may negatively impact our results of operations; regulatory actions could affect the price of energy, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability; natural resource shortages could impact our production. We, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources in our manufacturing and transportation activities. There has been significant volatility in the prices of energy during the recent past and such volatility is likely to continue in the future. A sustained increase in energy prices could cause an increase to our raw material, components and transportation costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs, in which case our profitability would be reduced. Concern over climate change has led to state, federal and international legislative and regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. While we don't expect existing or currently proposed initiatives to directly impact our business operations in the near future, these measures could over the long term lead to an increase in the cost of energy used in the manufacture of our products as a result of restrictions placed upon power generators and distributors. We can't currently estimate the impact of any such indirect costs. However, should our operating costs in fact rise as a result of any current, proposed or future greenhouse gas initiatives, and we are not able to pass such costs to our customers, our operating results would be adversely affected . Certain natural resources, including water used in our production processes, may become constrained, particularly in China, where economic output may outstrip natural resources. Such shortages could raise our costs or otherwise impact our production. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We conduct our international operations primarily in Asia, Latin America, Canada and Europe, and we continue to consider additional opportunities to make foreign acquisitions and establish new foreign facilities. The substantial majority of our net sales are generated through our non-U.S. operations and a significant portion of our manufacturing material is provided by international suppliers. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, political and other conditions in foreign countries, including: the imposition of government controls; compliance with United States and foreign laws concerning trade and employment practices; 23 Table of Contents difficulties in obtaining or complying with export license requirements; trade restrictions; changes in tariffs; labor unrest, including strikes, and difficulties in staffing; security concerns; regional military tension or hostilities; inflexible employee contracts in the event of business downturns; coordinating communications among and managing international operations; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; currency controls; increases in duty and/or income tax rates; adverse rulings in regards to tax audits; excess costs associated with reducing employment or shutting down facilities; misappropriation of intellectual property; and constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices. Our operations in certain foreign locations receive favorable income tax treatment in the form of tax holidays or other incentives. In the event that such tax holidays or other incentives are not extended, are repealed, or we no longer qualify for such programs, our taxes may increase, which would reduce our net income. Additionally, a significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the United States or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our United States operations, we may incur significant taxes to repatriate these funds. We operate in countries that have experienced labor unrest, political instability and strife, including Brazil, China, India, Israel, Malaysia and Thailand and we have experienced work stoppages and similar disruptions in certain foreign jurisdictions. To the extent such developments prevent us from adequately staffing our plants and manufacturing and shipping products in those jurisdictions, our margins and net income could be reduced and our reputation as a reliable supplier could be negatively impacted. We have incurred substantial restructuring charges in the past and we may need to take material restructuring charges in the future. We have incurred significant expenses related to restructuring of our operations in the past and may continue to do so in the future. For example, we have moved, and may continue to move, our operations from higher-cost to lower-cost locations to meet customer requirements. We have incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, costs related to workforce reductions, facility closures and subsequent environmental remediation, work stoppages and labor unrest resulting from the closure of facilities. In addition, we have incurred unanticipated costs related to the transfer of operations to lower-cost locations, including costs related to integrating new facilities, managing operations in dispersed locations and realigning our business processes. We also have incurred costs to restructure operations that have been acquired in order to integrate them into our company. We expect to be required to record additional charges related to restructuring activities in the future, but cannot predict the timing or amount of such charges. Any such charges would reduce our net income. Our results may be adversely affected by rising labor costs. There is substantial uncertainty about future labor costs, in particular within the lower cost regions in which we operate. Demographic changes and economic development in these regions put upward pressure on wages in these regions. If we are required to make any substantial increase in wages in these regions, our profitability could be reduced. Commodity price fluctuations may negatively impact our results of operations. Our components are manufactured using a number of commodities, including petroleum, gold, copper and other metals that are subject to frequent and unpredictable changes in price due to worldwide demand, investor interest and economic conditions. We do not hedge against the risk of these fluctuations, but rather attempt to adjust our product pricing to reflect such 24 Table of Contents changes. Should significant increases in commodities prices occur and should we not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs, our gross margins and profitability would decrease, perhaps significantly. Our business could be adversely affected by any delays, or increased costs, resulting from the use of common carriers to transport our materials and products. We rely on a variety of common carriers to transport our raw materials and components from our suppliers to us, and to transport our products to our customers. The use of common carriers is subject to a number of risks, including increased costs due to rising energy prices and labor, vehicle and insurance costs, criminal activity, such as hijackings, resulting in losses of shipments, delivery delays resulting from labor disturbances and strikes and other factors beyond our control. While we attempt to mitigate our liability for any losses resulting from these risks through contracts with our customers, suppliers and insurance carriers, any costs or losses that cannot be mitigated could reduce our profitability, require us to manufacture replacement product or damage our relationships with our customers. Our key personnel are critical to the continued growth of our business and we cannot assure you that they will remain with us. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key personnel, particularly our highly skilled operations managers and engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and development of new products and processes. Such employees may be heavily recruited by other companies, including our competitors. Generally, these employees are not bound by employment agreements and we rely on competitive pay packages in order to help attract and retain such personnel. Should our key employees choose to terminate their employment with us in order to accept higher pay packages or otherwise, our operations and growth prospects could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to maintain our technological and manufacturing process expertise, our business could be adversely affected. Improvements to and refinements of our manufacturing processes are necessary to manufacture next generation products for our customers in a cost-efficient manner. As a result, we are continually evaluating the cost-effectiveness and feasibility of new manufacturing processes. In some cases, we will be required to make capital expenditures and incur engineering expense in order to qualify and validate any such new process. Such expenses would reduce our net income. In addition, any delay in the deployment of such new process, or problems commencing volume production using a new process could also reduce our competitiveness, decrease our margins and net income and harm our reputation with our customers. Our international sales are subject to laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We are required to comply with all applicable domestic and foreign export control laws, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). Some items manufactured by us are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and international counterparts relating to bribery of foreign governments and officials, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. Violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions, including large monetary penalties and suspension or debarment from participation in future business opportunities, which could reduce our future revenue and net income and damage our reputation as a reputable supplier. In addition, defense of any such claim would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management's time and attention. We are subject to a number of U.S. governmental procurement rules and regulations, the failure to comply with which could result in damages or reduction of future revenue. We are subject to a number of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. Such laws and regulations govern, among other things, price negotiations, cost accounting standards and other aspects of performance under government contracts. These rules are complex and our performance under them is subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency and other government regulators. If an audit or investigation reveals a failure to comply with regulations or other improper activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions by either the government or the prime customer, including termination of the contract, payment of fines and suspension or debarment from doing further business with the U.S. government. Any of these actions would increase our expenses, reduce our revenue and damage our reputation as a reliable government supplier. 25 Table of Contents We can experience losses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which would reduce our net income. Because we manufacture and sell a substantial portion of our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in which we denominate certain of our trade accounts payable, fixed purchase obligations and other expenses, the U.S. dollar equivalent of such expenses would increase. We use financial instruments, primarily short-term foreign currency forward contracts, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. Our foreign currency hedging activities depend largely upon the accuracy of our forecasts of future sales, expenses, capital expenditures and monetary assets and liabilities. As such, our foreign currency forward contracts may exceed or not cover our full exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. If these hedging activities are not successful, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates, which could be significant and which would decrease our net income. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws could adversely affect our business by causing us to pay significant amounts for cleanup of hazardous materials or for damages or fines. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes in the ordinary course of our manufacturing operations. If we violate environmental laws or if we occupy or occupied in the past a site at which a predecessor company caused contamination, we may be held liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions. We cannot assure you that we will not violate environmental laws and regulations in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Although we estimate and regularly reassess our potential liability with respect to violations or alleged violations and accrue for such liability, we cannot assure you that our accruals will be sufficient. Any increase in existing reserves or establishment of new reserves for environmental liability would reduce our net income. Our failure or inability to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could also limit our ability to expand facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with these laws and regulations. Asbestos containing materials, or ACM, are present at several of our manufacturing facilities. Although the ACM is being managed and controls have been put in place pursuant to ACM operations and maintenance plans, the presence of ACM could give rise to remediation obligations and other liabilities. Our plants generally operate under environmental permits issued by governmental authorities. For the most part, these permits must be renewed periodically and are subject to revocation in the event of violations of environmental laws. Any such revocation could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby having an adverse impact on our results of operations. Primarily as a result of certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred liabilities associated with environmental contamination. These liabilities include ongoing investigation and remediation activities at a number of current and former sites, including ones located in Irvine, California; Owego, New York; Derry, New Hampshire; and Brockville, Ontario. There are some sites, including our acquired facility in Gunzenhausen, Germany, that are known to have groundwater contamination caused by a third-party, and that third-party has provided indemnity to us for the liability. However, third party indemnities may not be effective to reduce our liability for environmental contamination. For example, Nortel Networks, which had provided us an indemnity with respect to environmental investigation activities being undertaken at our former Brockville site, is party to bankruptcy proceedings that may cause it not to fully honor its indemnification obligations to us. As a result, we could be required to absorb the full expense of any remediation of that site. The time required to perform environmental remediations can be lengthy and there can be no assurance that the scope, and therefore cost, of these activities will not increase as a result of the discovery of new contamination or contamination on adjoining landowner's properties or the adoption of more stringent regulatory standards covering sites at which we are currently performing remediation activities. Although liabilities for historical treatment and disposal activities have not materially affected our financial condition to date, we cannot assure you that past disposal activities will not result in liability that will materially affect us in the future, nor can we provide assurance that we do not have environmental exposures of which we are unaware and which could adversely affect our future operating results. Over the years, environmental laws have become, and in the future may continue to become, more stringent, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We operate in several environmentally sensitive locations and are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and 26 Table of Contents environmental groups. Changes in or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, permitting requirements and material storage or handling could require a higher than anticipated level of remediation activities, operating expenses and capital investment or, depending on the severity of the impact of the foregoing factors, costly plant relocation. In addition, the electronics industry became subject to the European Union's RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) and WEEE (Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directives which took effect beginning in 2005. Parallel initiatives have been adopted in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and the People's Republic of China. RoHS prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires OEMs to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. Although we believe we have implemented procedures to make our manufacturing process RoHS compliant, a successful assertion by a governmental entity of non-compliance could result in significant costs and/or penalties. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations, which could increase our costs. Cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions of our IT network and systems could interrupt our operations. We rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are owned and operated by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for a variety of functions, including worldwide financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and email communications. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems and those of third parties on which we rely may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, malware and similar disruptions. Malware, if surreptitiously installed on our systems and not timely detected and removed, could collect and disclose sensitive information relating to our customers, employees or others, exposing us to legal liability and causing us to suffer reputational damage. If we or our vendors are unable to prevent such outages and breaches, our operations could be disrupted. Employee theft or fraud could result in loss. Certain of our employees have access to, or signature authority with respect to, bank accounts or other company assets, which exposes us to the risk of fraud or theft. In addition, certain employees have access to key IT infrastructure and to customer and other information that is commercially valuable. Should any employee, for any reason, compromise our IT systems, or misappropriate customer or other information, we could incur losses, including losses relating to claims by our customers against us, the willingness of customers to do business with us may be damaged and, in the case of our defense business, we could be debarred from future participation in government programs. We may not be successful in implementing and integrating strategic transactions or in divesting assets or businesses, which could harm our operating results. From time to time, we may undertake strategic transactions that give us the opportunity to access new customers and new end-customer markets, to obtain new manufacturing and service capabilities and technologies, to enter new geographic manufacturing locations, to lower our manufacturing costs and improve our profits, and to further develop existing customer relationships. Strategic transactions involve a number of risks, uncertainties and costs, including the following: integrating acquired operations and businesses including in regions or countries in which we have not previously operated; incurring severance and other restructuring costs, which would reduce our net income; obtaining regulatory approvals or other conditions to closing, which could delay the closing and increase the costs of strategic transactions; diverting management attention from day-to-day duties in order to implement and integrate strategic transactions; scaling up production and coordinating management of operations at new sites; incurring transaction expenses, which could be significant; separating operations or support infrastructure for entities divested; managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; maintaining customer, supplier or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and terminating unfavorable relationships, which could be costly; integrating the acquired company's systems into our management information systems; 27 Table of Contents satisfying unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including liability for past violations of law and environmental liabilities, which could be material and which could subject us to ongoing regulatory scrutiny or requirements; operating in geographic markets or industry sectors in which we may have little or no experience; complying with laws of new jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated; improving and expanding our management information systems to accommodate expanded operations; and losing key employees of acquired operations. Asset or business divestitures, even when part of our strategic plan, could reduce our revenue and net income. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of a strategic transaction, and our failure to realize these benefits could reduce our sales below and increase our costs above our forecasts and could cause write-downs of the value of the business acquired which would decrease our net income. Acquisitions may also be dilutive to our earnings per share, particularly if our projections and assumptions about the acquired business' future operating results prove to be inaccurate. As a result, although the goal of our acquisition and divestiture strategy is to improve our operating results and increase stockholder value, there can be no assurance that any transactions that we complete will actually do so. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or infringe, or are alleged to infringe, upon intellectual property of others, we could be required to pay significant amounts in costs or damages. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. For example, we rely in part upon patents to protect our intellectual property position. However, a number of our patents covering certain aspects of our manufacturing processes or products have expired or will expire in the near future. Such expirations reduce our ability to assert claims against competitors or others who use or sell similar technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights would diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our proprietary technology. We are also subject to the risk that current or former employees violate the terms of their proprietary information agreements with us. Should a key current or former employee use or disclose any of our or our customers' proprietary information, we could become subject to legal action by our customers or others, our key technologies could become compromised and our ability to compete could be adversely impacted. Finally, we may occasionally become involved in administrative proceedings, lawsuits or other proceedings if others allege that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Some of these claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our property rights. If successful, such claims could impair our ability to collect royalties or license fees or could force us or our customers to: stop producing products that use the challenged intellectual property; obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, at our expense, a license to sell the relevant technology at an additional cost, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or redesign those products or services so as not to use the infringed technology. We sometimes design products on a contract basis or jointly with our customers. In these situations, we may indemnify our customer against liability caused by claims that the design infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Such indemnification claims could require us to assume the defense of such a claim, the cost of which could be significant. Any of these results could reduce our revenue, increase our costs and reduce our net income and could damage our reputation with our customers. In addition, any type of intellectual property lawsuit, whether initiated by us or a third party, would likely be time consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management's time and attention. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for potential claims and losses, which could leave us responsible for certain costs and damages. We carry various forms of business and liability insurance in types and amounts we believe are reasonable and customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we do not have insurance coverage for all of the risks and 28 Table of Contents liabilities we assume in connection with our business and the products and services we provide to our customers, including failure to comply with typical customer warranties for workmanship, product liability, intellectual property infringement and product recall claims. In addition, our policies generally have deductibles that would reduce the amount of our potential recoveries from insurance. As a result, not all of our potential business losses are covered under our insurance policies. Should we sustain a significant uncovered loss, our net income would be reduced. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to Conflict Minerals may increase our costs and lead to reputational challenges. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefiting armed groups. As a result, the SEC has adopted due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing such minerals, regardless of whether the minerals are actually mined in the DRC or adjoining countries. Our first report under these rules will be due by May 31, 2014. Such regulations could decrease the availability and increase the prices of components used in our customers' products, particularly if we choose (or are required by our customers) to source such components from different suppliers than we use now. In addition, as our supply chain is complex and the method of complying with these SEC rules is unclear, we expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming and costly. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to timely verify the origins of minerals contained in the components included in our customers' products, or if our due diligence process reveals that materials we source originate in the DRC or adjoining countries and benefit armed groups. Changes in financial accounting standards or policies have affected, and in the future may affect, our reported financial condition or results of operations; additionally, changes in securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our operating costs . We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. Our preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of those assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the recorded amounts of expenses during the reporting period. A change in the facts and circumstances surrounding those estimates could result in a change to our estimates and could impact our future operating results. In addition, these principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions which are completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to revenue recognition, off-balance sheet transactions, stock-based compensation, restructuring, acquisition accounting, asset disposals and asset retirement obligations, leases, intangible assets, derivative and other financial instruments and in-process research and development charges, have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of how we interpret or implement those rules may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct business. In addition, the anticipated convergence of U.S. GAAP and international financial accounting standards creates uncertainty as to the financial accounting policies and practices we will need to adopt in the future. Finally, corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices continue to evolve based upon continuing legislative action, SEC rulemaking and stockholder advisory group policies. As a result, the number of rules and regulations applicable to us may increase, which would also increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time management must devote to compliance activities. Increasing regulatory burdens could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers in light of an increase in actual or perceived workload and liability for serving in such positions. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of companies, including companies in the EMS business. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The market for our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to similar volatility. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements by our competitors or other events 29 Table of Contents affecting companies in the electronics industry, currency fluctuations, general market fluctuations and macro economic conditions may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and global events. We conduct a significant portion of our activities including manufacturing, administration and information technology management in areas that have experienced natural disasters, such as major earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and tsunamis. For example, in March 2011, Japan experienced a major earthquake and tsunami and in late 2011, widespread flooding occurred in Thailand. Our insurance coverage with respect to damages to our facilities or our customers' products caused by natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits and, as a result, may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses. For example, our policies do not cover damage due to earthquake. In addition, such coverage may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event of a major earthquake or other disaster affecting one or more of our facilities, our operations and management information systems, which control our worldwide procurement, inventory management, shipping and billing activities, could be significantly disrupted. Such events could delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production or repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, there can be no assurance that such plans will be sufficient to allow our operations to continue in the event of every natural or man-made disaster, pandemic or other extraordinary event. Any extended inability to continue our operations at unaffected facilities following such an event would reduce our revenue and potentially damage our reputation as a reliable supplier. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Facilities. Our customers market numerous products throughout the world and therefore need to access manufacturing services on a global basis. To enhance our integrated manufacturing solutions offerings, we seek to locate our facilities either near our customers and our customers' end markets in major centers for the electronics industry or, when appropriate, in lower cost locations. Many of our plants located near customers and their end markets are focused primarily on new product introduction and final system assembly and test, while plants located in lower cost areas are engaged primarily in higher volume, less complex component and subsystem manufacturing and assembly. We continue to evaluate our global manufacturing operations and restructure our facilities and operations to bring our manufacturing capacity in line with demand and our manufacturing strategy and to provide cost efficient services to our customers. Through this process, we have closed certain facilities not required to satisfy current demand levels. We provide extensive operations in lower cost locations including Latin America, Eastern Europe, China, India and Southeast Asia and we plan to expand our presence in these lower cost locations as appropriate to meet the needs of our customers. As of September 28, 2013 , the approximate square footage of our active manufacturing facilities by country was as follows: Approximate Square Footage Argentina 1,335 Australia 7,105 Brazil 277,206 Canada 190,837 China 3,029,134 Columbia 2,772 Czech Republic 70,870 Finland 223,060 Germany 363,778 Hong Kong 29,682 Hungary 592,388 India 379,115 Indonesia 99,210 Ireland 110,000 Israel 136,292 Malaysia 264,054 Mexico 2,034,044 Singapore 472,935 South Africa 3,670 Sweden 77,425 Thailand 326,293 United Kingdom 41,174 United States 2,980,325 Total 11,712,704 As of September 28, 2013 , our active manufacturing facilities consist of 8,409,805 square feet in facilities that we own, with the remaining 3,302,899 square feet in leased facilities under lease terms expiring between 2014 and 2042 . In addition to the above, we have 173,333 square feet of non-manufacturing space that we are currently using and 1,497,273 square feet of space in inactive facilities, of which 424,585 square feet is in domestic locations and 1,072,688 square feet is in international locations. Additionally, 205,412 square feet of space in our inactive facilities is leased to third parties. We are currently undertaking an aggressive program to sublease or terminate leases for unused facilities and to sell owned properties that are no longer expected to serve our future needs. These properties are being marketed for sale at an aggregate 31 Table of Contents list price of over $80 million. We regularly evaluate our expected future facilities requirements. We believe our existing facilities are adequate to meet our requirements for the next 12 months. Certifications and Registrations. Certifications and registrations under industry standards are important to our business because many customers rely on them to confirm our adherence to manufacturing process and quality standards. Certain markets, such as telecommunications, medical, aviation, defense, aerospace and automotive, require adherence to industry-specific standards. Substantially all of our manufacturing facilities are registered under ISO 9001:2008, a standard published by the International Organization for Standardization. As part of the ISO 9001:2008 certification process, we have a highly developed quality management system and continually improve its effectiveness in accordance with its requirements. We use this registration to demonstrate our ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable regulatory requirements and enhance customer satisfaction through its effective application. ISO 9001:2008 registration is of particular importance to our customers throughout the world. In addition to ISO 9001:2008, most of our facilities are TL 9000 registered. The TL 9000 quality system requirements and quality system metrics are designed specifically for the telecommunications industry to promote consistency and efficiency, reduce redundancy and improve customer satisfaction. Included in the TL 9000 system are performance-based metrics that quantify reliability and quality performance of the product. The majority of our facilities are also compliant with the standards set by Underwriters Laboratories (UL). These standards define requirements for quality, manufacturing process control and manufacturing documentation and are required by many OEMs in the communications sector of the electronics industry. Our medical systems division has identified certain manufacturing facilities to be centers of excellence for medical products manufacturing. These facilities are FDA and ISO 13485:2003 certified and, where appropriate, FDA registered. All facilities are fully compliant with the FDA's quality systems regulations. Our defense and aerospace operations are headquartered in Huntsville, Alabama and are housed in a facility dedicated to meeting the specialized needs of our defense and aerospace customers. This defense and aerospace operation is AS9100 registered and is also certified under various U.S. military specifications as well as under ANSI and other standards appropriate for defense and aerospace suppliers. Other selected operations around the world are also AS9100 registered. Our automotive facilities are strategically located worldwide. Substantially all of our automotive facilities are certified to ISO/TS 16949:2009, the automotive industry standard. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Two of our subsidiaries, Sanmina-SCI do Brasil Technology Ltda. and Sanmina do Brasil Integration Ltda., are parties to six separate administrative and judicial proceedings in the Brazilian Chamber of Appeals of Administrative Court, the Chamber of the Administrative Court of So Paulo, Brazil and the Lower Federal Court in Campinas, So Paulo State. The cases were brought against the subsidiaries at various times between November 2006 and May 2013 by the Federal Revenue Secretariat of Brazil and State Treasury of So Paulo. The claims allege that these subsidiaries failed to comply with certain bookkeeping and tax rules for certain periods between 2001 and 2010. The claims seek payment by the subsidiaries of state value-added tax and income and excise taxes allegedly owed by the subsidiaries, as well as fines. In addition, in February 2008, the subsidiaries filed a claim against the Chief Office of Brazilian Internal Revenue Service seeking recovery of certain income taxes and social fund contributions which it believes it overpaid in 1999 and 2000. The administrative agencies and the court reached decisions in these cases against the subsidiaries between March 2007 and October 2012, all of which were appealed between April 2007 and November 2012. The administrative agencies and court have not ruled on any of the subsidiaries latest appeals. In addition, the subsidiaries claim against the Brazilian Internal Revenue Service has been denied and is on appeal. The subsidiaries believe they have meritorious positions in these matters and intend to continue to contest the claims against them, although there can be no assurance that these claims will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. On June 23, 2008, the Orange County Water District filed suit against Sanmina Corporation and 17 other defendants in California Superior Court for Orange County alleging that the defendants' actions had polluted groundwater managed by the plaintiff. The complaint sought recovery of compensatory and other damages, as well as declaratory relief, for the payment of costs necessary to investigate, monitor, remediate, abate and contain contamination of groundwater within the plaintiff's control. We have disputed the plaintiff's claims and asserted various defenses. On April 9, 2013, the Superior Court ruled in favor of our motion for summary adjudication dismissing us from the suit. In late August, 2013, the plaintiff appealed the Superior Courts judgment. We anticipate that the Court of Appeal will hear the appeal by the middle of calendar 2014. 32 Table of Contents On September 7, 2011, one of our Canadian subsidiaries became party to an order from the Ontario Ministry of Environment (the MOE) requiring such subsidiary to remediate certain environmental contamination at a site owned and operated by the subsidiary between 1999 and 2006. Remediation activities had been performed at such site from 1990 to 2011 by the site's former owner which, along with the sites current owner, are also parties to and bound by the order. On or about July 31, 2013, our subsidiary submitted a conceptual remedial action plan to the MOE with respect to the site outlining proposed investigation and remediation activities. On September 10, 2013, the MOE responded, indicating that it concurred with the conceptual remedial action plan, but requesting some additional information. Although we believe the conceptual remediation action plan is reasonable, there can be no assurance that the plan will not be required to be modified in the future, which could increase the costs of remediation, perhaps significantly. From time to time, we may be involved in routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation, that arise in the normal course of our business. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is uncertain and unfavorable outcomes could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us as a result of incurrence of defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. We record liabilities for legal proceedings when a loss becomes probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. See also Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol SANM. The following table lists the high and low intra-day prices for our common stock as reported on NASDAQ. 2013 High Low First quarter $ 11.13 $ 7.58 Second quarter $ 12.14 $ 9.12 Third quarter $ 14.60 $ 10.18 Fourth quarter $ 18.44 $ 14.29 2012 High Low First quarter $ 9.64 $ 6.01 Second quarter $ 12.55 $ 9.28 Third quarter $ 11.70 $ 6.62 Fourth quarter $ 9.59 $ 7.02 As of November 12, 2013, we had approximately 1,152 holders of record of our common stock. On November 12, 2013, the last reported sales price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $15.43 per share. The following graph compares the cumulative 5-year total return provided shareholders on our common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index and the NASDAQ Electronic Components index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our common stock on September 27, 2008 and in each of the indexes on September 30, 2013 and its relative performance is tracked through September 28, 2013 . 34 Table of Contents * $100 invested on 9/27/2008 in stock or 9/30/08 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Indexes calculated on month end basis Copyright @ 2013 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved. 9/27/2008 10/3/2009 10/2/2010 10/1/2011 9/29/2012 9/28/2013 Sanmina Corporation 100.00 83.13 122.05 67.89 86.48 178.25 S&P 500 100.00 93.09 102.55 103.72 135.05 161.17 NASDAQ Electronic Components 100.00 109.94 117.24 114.40 122.35 152.26 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Dividends We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our ability to pay dividends is limited pursuant to covenants contained in our various debt agreements. See also Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources. 35 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and