Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Stock Repurchases During the third quarter of 2023, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $200 million of our common stock in the open market or in negotiated private transactions. This program has no expiration date. The table below sets forth information regarding repurchases of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2023. Period (1) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under The Programs (2) July 2, 2023 - July 29, 2023 $ $ 312,321,196 July 30, 2023 - August 26, 2023 458,368 $ 55.17 458,368 $ 287,034,902 August 27, 2023 - September 30, 2023 145,408 $ 52.99 145,408 $ 279,329,725 Total 603,776 $ 54.64 603,776 (1) All months shown are our fiscal months. (2) Amounts do not include commissions payable on shares repurchased. The total average price paid per share is a weighted average based on the total number of shares repurchased during the period and does not include the effect of the excise tax under the provision of the Inflation Reduction Act. Item 6. [Reserved] 32 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin, operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, or cash flow; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding litigation or pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of acquisitions and other strategic transactions, any statements regarding expected restructuring costs and benefits; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition; any statements regarding the potential impact of supply chain shortages and inflation on our business; any statements regarding the future impact of tariffs and export controls on our business; any statements relating to our expectations concerning developments in the audit by the IRS of certain tax returns filed by us; any statements relating to the expected impact of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted; any statements regarding future repurchases of our common stock; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part I, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Investors and others should note that Sanmina announces material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://ir.sanmina.com/investor-relations/overview/default.aspx), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about Sanmina, its products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Sanmina to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The contents of our investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that serve the industrial, medical, defense and aerospace, automotive, communications networks and cloud solutions industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1) Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). Our IMS segment consists of printed circuit board assembly and test, high-level assembly and test and direct-order-fulfillment. 2) Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include printed circuit boards, backplanes and backplane assemblies, cable assemblies, fabricated metal parts, precision machined parts, and plastic injected molded parts. Products include optical, radio frequency (RF) and microelectronic design and manufacturing services from our Advanced Microsystems Technologies division; multi-chip package memory solutions from our Viking Technology division; high-performance storage platforms for hyperscale and enterprise solutions from our Viking Enterprise Solutions division; defense and aerospace product, design, manufacturing, repair and refurbishment services from our SCI Technology Inc. (SCI) subsidiary; and cloud-based smart manufacturing execution software from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering, and logistics and repair. Our only reportable segment for financial reporting purposes is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in 2023. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is combined and presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. 33 Table of Contents Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive product and service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. A core component of our business strategy is to establish long-term customer partnerships with companies. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. Sales to our ten largest customers typically represent approximately 50% of our net sales in any given year. Nokia represented 10% or more of our net sales in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Motorola represented 10% or more of our net sales in 2022. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically purchases its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products. In addition, some customer contracts contain cost reduction objectives, which can have the effect of reducing revenue from such customers. We typically generate about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to manufacture in lower-cost locations in regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe and we plan to expand our presence as appropriate to meet the needs of our customers. We also intend to continue to invest in factory automation, process improvements, robotics and artificial intelligence, keeping up with the trends in technology to further enhance our efficiency output. We believe our end-to-end manufacturing solutions combined with our global supply chain management expertise differentiates us from our competitors and enables us to better serve the needs of OEMs. However, our business faces many challenges. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. This includes companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche product, service or end market. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and offer many advantages compared to our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. Additionally, we are impacted by macroeconomic challenges such as inflation, market volatility, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, supply chain issues, and actual or threatened wars or conflicts. These challenges can increase the prices and reduce the availability of components we acquire, as well as increase our labor and operating costs. We have been able to partially mitigate the impact of rising prices through our contractual pricing rights with customers. However, further pricing increases may result in a decline in our future profitability and we expect the macroeconomic challenges to continue in the future. Over the past several years, the U.S., China, the E.U. and several other countries imposed tariffs impacting certain imported products. Although our customers are generally liable to us for reimbursement of tariffs we pay on components imported for the manufacture of their products, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in recovering all of the tariffs that are owed to us. Unrecovered tariffs paid on behalf of our customers reduce our gross margins. Also, although we are required to pay tariffs upon importation of components, we may not recover these amounts from customers until sometime later, which adversely impacts our operating cash flow in a given period. However, the net impact of tariffs, after recovery from customers, has not been, and is not expected to be, material to us. Overall, we strive to manage the challenges posed by the economy and competition, by focusing on improving our operations, building flexibility and efficiencies in our processes and adjusting our business models to changing circumstances. Given that maintaining low costs is the cornerstone of our success and growth, we are proactively handling cost impacts through a combination of well-calibrated pricing actions and targeted cost-saving measures to enhance overall stockholder value. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies, as well as estimates related to costs expected to be incurred to satisfy performance obligations under long-term contracts and variable consideration related to such contracts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We have considered information available to us as of the date of issuance of these financial statements and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that would require an update to our estimates or judgments, or a revision to the carrying value of our assets or liabilities. Our estimates may change as new events occur and additional information becomes available. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used by us in preparing our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition. We derive revenue principally from sales of integrated manufacturing solutions, components and Company-proprietary products. Other sources of revenue include logistic and repair services; design, development and engineering services; defense and aerospace programs; and sales of raw materials to customers whose requirements change after we have procured inventory to fulfill the customers forecasted demand. For purposes of determining when to recognize revenue, and in what amount, we apply a 5-step model: (1) identify the contract with a customer; (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy a performance obligation. Each of these steps may involve the use of significant judgments. We recognize revenue for the majority of our contracts on an over time basis. This is primarily due to the fact that we do not have an alternative use for the end products we manufacture for our customers and have an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit, for work-in-progress upon a customer's cancellation of a contract for convenience. In certain circumstances, we recognize over time because our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by our services or, our customer controls the end product as we perform manufacturing services (continuous transfer of control). For these contracts, revenue is recognized on an over time basis using the cost-to-cost method (ratio of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs at completion) which we believe best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Revenue streams for which revenue is recognized on an over time basis include sales of vertically integrated manufacturing solutions (integrated manufacturing solutions and components); logistics and repair services; design, development and engineering services; and defense and aerospace programs. Application of the cost-to-cost method for government contracts in our Defense and Aerospace division requires the use of significant judgments with respect to estimated materials, labor and subcontractor costs included in the total estimated costs at completion. Additionally, we evaluate whether contract modifications for claims have been approved and, if so, estimate the amount, if any, of variable consideration that can be included in the transaction price of the contract. This division is an operating segment whose results are combined with thirteen other operating segments and reported under CPS. In 2023, CPS revenue and gross profit were $1.6 billion and $202 million, respectively. Estimates of materials, labor and subcontractor costs expected to be incurred to satisfy a performance obligation are updated on a quarterly basis. These estimates consider costs incurred to date and estimated costs to be incurred over the remaining expected period of performance to satisfy a performance obligation. Such estimates are reviewed each quarter by a group of employees that includes representatives from numerous functions such as engineering, materials, contracts, manufacturing, program management, finance and senior management. If a change in estimate is deemed necessary, the impact of the change is recognized in the period of change. Additionally, contract modifications for claims are assessed each quarter to determine whether the claims have been approved. If it is determined that a claim has been approved, the amount of the claim, if any, that can be included in transaction price is estimated considering a number of factors such as the length of time expected to lapse until uncertainty about the claim has been resolved and the extent to which our experience with claims for similar contracts has predictive value. 35 Table of Contents For contracts for which revenue is required to be recognized at a point-in-time, we recognize revenue when we have transferred control of the related goods, which generally occurs upon shipment or delivery of the goods to the customer. Revenue streams for which revenue is recognized at a point-in-time include our proprietary products and sales of raw materials. Inventories We state inventories at the lower of cost (based on standard cost, which approximates first-in, first-out method) and net realizable value. Cost includes raw materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. We regularly evaluate the carrying value of our inventories and make provisions to reduce excess and obsolete inventories to their estimated net realizable values. The ultimate realization of inventory carrying amounts is affected by changes in customer demand for inventory that customers are not contractually obligated to purchase and inventory held for specific customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. Inventory write-downs are recorded based on forecasted demand, past experience with specific customers, the ability to redistribute inventory to other programs or return inventories to our suppliers, and whether customers are contractually obligated and have the ability to pay for the related inventory. Certain payments received from customers for inventories that have not been shipped to customers or otherwise disposed of are netted against inventory. We generally procure inventory based on specific customer orders and forecasts. Customers generally have limited rights of modification (for example, rescheduling or cancellations) with respect to specific orders. Customer modifications of orders affecting inventory previously procured by us and our purchases of inventory beyond customer needs may result in excess and obsolete inventory. Although we may be able to use some excess inventory for other products we manufacture, a portion of this excess inventory may not be returnable to vendors or recoverable from customers. Write-offs or write-downs of inventory could be caused by: changes in customer demand for inventory, such as cancellation of orders, and our purchases of inventory beyond customer needs that result in excess quantities on hand that we are not able to return to the vendor, use to fulfill orders from other customers or charge back to the customer; financial difficulties experienced by specific customers for whom we hold inventory; and declines in the market value of inventory. Long-lived Assets We review property, plant and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. An asset group is the unit of accounting that represents the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. An asset or asset group is considered impaired if its carrying amount exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows the asset or asset group is expected to generate. If an asset or asset group is considered impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. For asset groups for which a building is the primary asset, we estimate fair value primarily based on data provided by commercial real estate brokers. For other assets, we estimate fair value based on projected discounted future net cash flows, which requires significant judgment. Consolidation In accordance with ASC Topic 810, Consolidation (ASC 810), we consolidate entities in which we have a controlling financial interest. In fiscal 2023, we completed a joint venture transaction with Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited (RSBVL) to establish Sanmina SCI India Private Limited (SIPL), our existing Indian manufacturing entity, as a joint venture. As a result of the transaction, RSBVL holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares of SIPL and we hold the remaining 49.9% of the outstanding shares of SIPL. In connection with RSBVLs investment, we entered into a management services contract pursuant to which we have the unilateral ability to make the significant financial and operating decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business. We determined the voting interest model was applicable under ASC 810 and concluded that, despite not having a majority ownership interest, we have a controlling financial interest in SIPL through the management services contract. Therefore, we have, by contract, the unilateral ability to control the significant decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business and, as such, we consolidate SIPL. However, we periodically assess whether any changes in facts and circumstances have occurred that could require us to deconsolidate SIPL. Income Taxes We estimate our income tax provision or benefit in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including estimating exposures related to examinations by taxing authorities. We believe our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law applied to the facts of each matter. Although we believe our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate, tax regulations are subject to interpretation and the tax controversy process is inherently lengthy and uncertain; therefore, our assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events and rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. To the extent the probable tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. We only recognize or continue to recognize tax positions that meet a more likely than not threshold of being upheld. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized as a component of income tax expense. 36 Table of Contents We must also make judgments regarding the realizability of deferred tax assets. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets is based on our belief that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets. We evaluate positive and negative evidence each reporting period when assessing the need for a valuation allowance. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets if we believe realization of such assets is not more likely than not. Our judgments regarding future taxable income may change due to changes in market conditions, new or modified tax laws, tax planning strategies or other factors. If our assumptions, and consequently our estimates, change in the future, the valuation allowances we have established may be increased or decreased, resulting in a respective increase or decrease in income tax expense. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the amount and geographic distribution of our worldwide income or losses, the tax regulations, rates and holidays in each geographic region, the utilization of net operating losses, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. 37 Table of Contents Results of Operations Refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2022 filed with the SEC on May 22, 2023 for discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2022 compared to the fiscal year ended October 2, 2021. The following table presents our key operating results. Year Ended September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 October 2, 2021 (In thousands) Net sales $ 8,935,048 $ 7,919,622 $ 6,738,356 Gross profit $ 743,211 $ 622,206 $ 526,441 Gross margin 8.3 % 7.9 % 7.8 % Operating expenses $ 287,553 $ 272,727 $ 270,505 Operating income $ 455,658 $ 349,479 $ 255,936 Operating margin 5.1 % 4.4 % 3.8 % Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 309,970 $ 240,384 $ 249,546 Net Sales Net sales increased from $7.9 billion for 2022 to $8.9 billion for 2023, an increase of 12.8%. Net sales increased from $6.7 billion for 2021 to $7.9 billion for 2022, an increase of 17.5%. Sales by end market were as follows: Year Ended 2023 vs. 2022 2022 vs. 2021 September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 October 2, 2021 Increase/(Decrease) Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in thousands) Industrial, Medical, Defense and Aerospace, and Automotive $ 5,388,877 $ 4,744,088 $ 3,871,754 $ 644,789 13.6 % $ 872,334 22.5 % Communications Networks and Cloud Infrastructure 3,546,171 3,175,534 2,866,602 370,637 11.7 % 308,932 10.8 % Total $ 8,935,048 $ 7,919,622 $ 6,738,356 $ 1,015,426 12.8 % $ 1,181,266 17.5 % Comparison of 2023 to 2022 by End Market Sales in both our industrial, medical, defense and automotive end market, as well as our communications networks and cloud infrastructure end market, increased primarily as a result of stronger overall demand, particularly in the first half of the year, improved material availability resulting from easing of supply chain challenges and a ramp up of certain new customer programs. Gross Margin Gross margin was 8.3%, 7.9% and 7.8% in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. IMS gross margin increased to 7.7% in 2023 from 7.2% in 2022, primarily due to increased operating efficiencies from higher volume. CPS gross margin increased to 11.6% in 2023 from 10.6% in 2022, primarily due to improved operating efficiencies and a favorable mix of products, the effects of which were partially offset by losses on certain fixed-price customer contracts. We have experienced fluctuations in gross margin in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Fluctuations in our gross margin may be caused by a number of factors, including: the impacts of supply chain constraints on our operations, the operations of our suppliers and on our customers businesses; capacity utilization which, if lower, results in lower margins due to fixed costs being absorbed by lower volumes; 38 Table of Contents changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; the amount of our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including those associated with distressed customers; levels of operational efficiency and production yields; our performance on long-term contracts, including our ability to recover claims for cost overruns; and our ability to transition the location of and ramp up manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses were $255 million, $245 million and $235 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 2.9%, 3.1% and 3.5% for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars in 2023 from 2022 was primarily due to an increase in our deferred compensation liability resulting from an increase in the market value of participant investment accounts and higher professional fees. Research and Development Research and Development expenses were $26 million, $21 million and $21 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, Research and Development expenses were 0.3% for 2023, 2022 and 2021. The increase in absolute dollars in 2023 from 2022 was primarily due to higher expense for additional design support on projects and higher material costs as we continue to focus on supporting customer requirements. Restructuring and Other Restructuring costs were $6 million, $11 million, and $15 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The decrease in restructuring cost in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to an increase in 2022 in our environmental remediation liability for a former site. Interest Income Interest income was $14 million, $2 million and $1 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest income increased $12 million in 2023 primarily due to interest earned on investments purchased with a portion of the cash proceeds received from the sale of an equity interest related to a joint venture transaction that closed on October 3, 2022 as well as higher interest earned on cash deposits. Interest Expense Interest expense was $36 million, $22 million and $20 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest expense increased $14 million in 2023 due to higher interest rates and increased utilization of our revolving credit facility. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net was $(20) million in 2023, $(26) million in 2022 and a $44 million in 2021. Other income (expense), net, decreased $6 million in 2023 due primarily to a gain of $5 million in the market value of participant investment accounts in our deferred compensation plan in 2023 compared to a loss of $6 million in 2022, a $7 million allowance in 2022 that was provided for a note receivable compared to none in 2023, partially offset by a $13 million increase in fees in 2023 for accounts receivable factoring. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $85 million, $62 million and $32 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 21%, 20% and 11% for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in tax in absolute dollars for 2023 was primarily due to increased profit before tax. We are currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 2008 through 2010. On 39 Table of Contents September 26, 2023, we received a final Notice of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS related to a worthless stock deduction and disallowance of the resulting net operating loss carryforward in the 2009 fiscal year. We disagree with the IRSs proposed adjustment and intend to vigorously contest this matter through the applicable IRS administrative and judicial procedures, as appropriate. In the future, we expect to receive a Revenue Agent Report including the IRSs calculation of the tax assessment related to this matter. Although the final resolution of this proposed adjustment remains uncertain, we continue to believe that it is more likely than not that our tax position will be sustained. An unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material, adverse impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest On October 3, 2022 (Transaction Date), we completed a joint venture transaction pursuant to a Share Subscription and Purchase Agreement (the SSPA) and a Joint Venture and Shareholders Agreement (the Shareholders Agreement) previously entered into with Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Limited (RSBVL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited. Pursuant to the SSPA and the Shareholders Agreement, the parties established Sanmina SCI India Private Limited (SIPL), our existing Indian manufacturing entity, as a joint venture to engage in manufacturing in India of telecommunications equipment, data center and internet equipment, medical equipment, clean technology equipment and other high-tech equipment. This partnership leverages our advanced manufacturing experience and RSBVLs expertise and leadership in the Indian business ecosystem. In addition to supporting our current customer base, the joint venture will create a state-of-the-art Manufacturing Technology Center of Excellence" that will serve as an incubation center to support the product development and hardware start-up ecosystem in India, as well as promote research and innovation of leading-edge technologies. As a result of the transaction, RSBVL acquired shares of SIPL for approximately $216 million of cash such that RSBVL holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares of SIPL and we hold the remaining 49.9% of the outstanding shares of SIPL. In connection with RSBVLs investment, we and RSBVL entered into a management services contract pursuant to which we have the unilateral ability to make the significant financial and operating decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business. In accordance with ASC Topic 810, Consolidation (ASC 810), we are required to consolidate entities in which we have a controlling financial interest. We determined the voting interest model was applicable under ASC 810 and concluded that, despite not having a majority ownership interest, we have a controlling financial interest in SIPL through the management services contract. Therefore, we have, by contract, the unilateral ability to control the significant decisions made in the ordinary course of SIPLs business. Because we have a controlling financial interest in SIPL, we consolidate SIPL. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $18 million in 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Year Ended September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 October 2, 2021 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 235,168 $ 330,854 $ 338,342 Investing activities (192,458) (132,214) (91,325) Financing activities 94,505 (314,299) (77,318) Effect of exchange rate changes 498 (4,510) (199) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 137,713 $ (120,169) $ 169,500 40 Table of Contents Key Working Capital Management Measures As of September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 Days sales outstanding (1) 55 48 Contract asset days (2) 20 19 Inventory turns (3) 5.1 5.0 Days inventory on hand (4) 72 73 Accounts payable days (5) 81 90 Cash cycle days (6) 66 50 (1)Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or DSO, is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2)Contract asset days (a measure of how quickly we transfer contract assets to accounts receivable) are calculated as the ratio of average contract assets to average daily net sales for the quarter. (3)Inventory turns (annualized) (a measure of how quickly we sell inventory) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (4)Days inventory on hand (a measure of how quickly we turn inventory into sales) is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (5)Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or DPO, is calculated as the ratio of 365 days to accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (6)Cash cycle days (a measure of how quickly we convert investments in inventory to cash) is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $668 million at September 30, 2023 and $530 million at October 1, 2022. This increase was driven largely by our receipt of approximately $216 million from the sale of shares of SIPL to RSBVL in fiscal 2023. Our cash levels vary during any given period depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under credit facilities, sales of accounts receivable under numerous programs we utilize, repurchases of capital stock and other factors. Our working capital was approximately $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion as of September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $235 million, $331 million and $338 million for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, and payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During 2023, we generated $527 million of cash from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and used $292 million of cash primarily because of a decrease in accounts payable of $414 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $89 million, partially offset by a decrease in inventories of $210 million. The decrease in accounts payable is primarily attributable to lower inventory receipts and an unfavorable mix of supplier payment terms, resulting in DPO decreasing from 90 days in 2022 to 81 days in 2023. The decrease in inventories is primarily due to lower business volume and our efforts to reduce inventory to more appropriate levels by working with customers to ensure their demand forecasts are reasonable and incorporate appropriate lead times to secure materials. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily attributable to lower business volume as well as an unfavorable customer payment terms mix. Net cash used in investing activities was $192 million, $132 million and $91 million for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2023 and 2022, we used $191 million and $139 million of cash for capital expenditures respectively. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $95 million, $(314) million and $(77) million for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2023, we repurchased $107 million of common stock (including $23 million in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations), repaid an aggregate of $18 million of long-term debt, paid a final payment of $9 million 41 Table of Contents in connection with a previous business combination, received $216 million from sale of shares of SIPL to RSBVL, received $8 million proceeds from short-term borrowing and received $3 million of proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. In 2022, we repurchased $331 million of common stock (including $14 million in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations), repaid an aggregate of $333 million of long-term debt, using $350 million of proceeds from issuances of a term loan, incurred $3 million of costs in connection with the amendment to the term loan and received $2 million of proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Revolving Credit Facility. Our Credit Agreement provides for an $800 million revolving credit facility and a $350 million secured term loan (the Term Loan Due 2027), together with an accordion feature by which we can obtain, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions and commitment of the lenders, additional revolving commitments in an aggregate amount of up to $200 million. As of September 30, 2023, no borrowings and $13 million of letters of credit were outstanding under the Credit Agreement, under which $787 million was available to borrow. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of October 1, 2022. Short-term Borrowing Facilities. We had $8 million of short-term borrowings outstanding as of September 30, 2023. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries had a total of $72 million of short-term borrowing facilities available, under which no borrowings were outstanding as of September 30, 2023. These facilities expire at various dates through the first quarter of 2025. Other Liquidity Matters During 2023 and 2022 we repurchased 1.6 million shares and 8.0 million shares of our common stock for $84 million and $317 million (including commissions), respectively, under stock repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. These programs have no expiration dates and the timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, purchases of shares reduce our liquidity. As a result, the timing of future repurchases depends upon our future capital needs, market conditions and other factors. As of September 30, 2023, an aggregate of $279 million remains available under these programs. We are party to a Receivables Purchase Agreement (the RPA) with certain third-party banking institutions for the sale of trade receivables generated from sales to certain customers. The amount available under the RPA is uncommitted and, as such, is available at the discretion of our third-party banking institutions. Under the Credit Agreement, the percentage of our total accounts receivable that can be sold and outstanding at any time is 50%. Therefore, as of September 30, 2023, a maximum of $450 million of sold receivables could be outstanding at any point in time under this program, as amended, as required by our Credit Agreement. Trade receivables sold pursuant to the RPA are serviced by us. In addition to the RPA, we participate in trade receivables sales programs that have been implemented by certain of our customers, as in effect from time to time. We do not service trade receivables sold under these other programs. The sale of receivables under all of these programs is subject to the approval of the banks or customers involved and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the maximum amount of receivables permitted by these programs when desired. Under each of the programs noted above, we sell our entire interest in a trade receivable for 100% of face value, less a discount. For the years ended September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, we sold approximately $3 billion and $2 billion, respectively, of accounts receivable under these programs. As of September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, $162 million and $194 million, respectively, of accounts receivable sold under the RPA and subject to servicing by us remained outstanding and had not yet been collected. Our sole risk with respect to receivables we service is with respect to commercial disputes regarding such receivables. Commercial disputes include billing errors, returns and similar matters. To date, we have not been required to repurchase any receivable we have sold due to a commercial dispute. Additionally, we are required to remit amounts collected as servicer on a weekly basis to the financial institutions that purchased the receivables. As of September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, $33 million and $49 million, respectively, had been collected but not yet remitted. This amount is classified in accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. We enter into forward interest rate swap agreements with independent counterparties to partially hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (Term SOFR) associated with anticipated variable rate borrowings. See Note 5, Financial Instruments of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for details. 42 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of September 30, 2023, we had accrued liabilities of $34 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. As of September 30, 2023, we had a liability of $53 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity is largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including sales of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. In 2023, we generated $235 million of cash from operations. Our primary sources of liquidity as of September 30, 2023 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $668 million; (2) our Credit Agreement, under which $787 million, net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available; (3) our foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $72 million, all of which was available; (4) proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and (5) cash generated from operations. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolver commitments under the Credit Agreement by an additional $200 million. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, should demand for our services decrease significantly over the next 12 months, should we be unable to recover on inventory obligations owed to us by our customers or should we experience significant increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable for any reason, our cash provided by operations could decrease significantly and we could be required to seek additional sources of liquidity to continue our operations at their current level. We invest our cash in numerous financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. As of September 30, 2023, approximately 41% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Credit Agreement and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. SIPLs cash and cash equivalents balance of $186 million as of September 30, 2023 is not available for general corporate purposes and must be retained in SIPL to fund its operations. Contractual Obligations As part of our ongoing operations, we enter into contractual arrangements that obligate us to make future cash payments. These obligations impact our liquidity and capital resource needs. Our estimated future obligations consist of leases, the Term Loan Due 2027, pension plan funding obligations and unrecognized tax benefits as of September 30, 2023. A summary of our operating lease obligations as of September 30, 2023 can be found in Note 8, Leases of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. A summary of our long-term debt obligations as of September 30, 2023 can be found in Note 7, Debt of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. We have defined benefit pension plans with an underfunded amount of $35 million as of September 30, 2023. We will be required to provide additional funding to these plans in the future if our returns on plan assets are not sufficient to meet our funding obligations. See Note 17, Employee Benefit Plans of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. 43 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2023, we were unable to reliably estimate when cash settlements or closure of audits with taxing authorities may occur with respect to our long-term liabilities arising from unrecognized tax benefits of $53 million. The statutes of limitations for these matters range up to 10 years, and unsettled liabilities are released upon expiration of the statutes. We also have outstanding firm purchase orders with certain suppliers for the purchase of inventory which are generally short-term in nature. Orders for standard, or catalog, items can typically be canceled with little or no financial penalty. Our policy regarding non-standard or customized items dictates that such items are only ordered specifically for customers who have contractually assumed liability for the inventory, although exceptions are made to this policy in certain situations. Accordingly, our liability from purchase obligations under these purchase orders is not expected to be significant. Lastly, pursuant to arrangements under which vendors consign inventory to us, we may be required to purchase such inventory after a certain period of time. To date, we have not been required to purchase a significant amount of inventory pursuant to these time limitations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2023, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 44 Table of Contents