Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenues or results of operations, gross margin or operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the expected restructuring costs; any statements regarding our expectations for future interest expense; any statements about future repurchases of stock; any statements about the expected proceeds from real property sales; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to the risks and uncertainties contained in or incorporated from Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview We are a leading independent global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the communications networks, computing and storage, multimedia, industrial and semiconductor systems, defense and aerospace, medical, energy and clean technology and automotive industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1) Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). IMS is a reportable segment consisting of printed circuit board assembly and test, final system assembly and test, and direct-order-fulfillment. 2) Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include interconnect systems (printed circuit board fabrication, backplane and cable assemblies) and mechanical systems (enclosures, precision machining and plastic injection molding); Products include memory and solid state drive products from our Viking Technology division, defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology, storage products from our Newisys division and optical and RF (Radio Frequency) modules; and Services include design, engineering, logistics and repair services. All references to years, in this section, refer to our fiscal years ending on the last Saturday of each year closest to September 30. Fiscal 2014 was a 52-week year and fiscal 2015 will be a 53-week year, with the extra week in the fourth fiscal quarter. Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive service offerings, advanced technologies, and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and that have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. These include companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. Additionally, further growing and leveraging our CPS business to improve our operating margins continues to be an integral part of our strategy. 18 A relatively small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers typically represent approximately 50% of our net sales. A single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the first quarter of 2014. No single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the first quarter of 2015. We typically generate approximately 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to require production in lower cost locations such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. We expect this to continue. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically agrees to purchase its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products and, in some cases, provide for cost reductions objectives during the term of the agreement, which can have the effect of reducing our revenue and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates for certain reserves and contingent liabilities, including those related to product returns, accounts receivable, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2014. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,671,162 $ 1,447,498 Gross profit $ 126,346 $ 110,785 Operating income $ 53,480 $ 39,520 Net income $ 22,656 $ 23,101 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 Increase/(Decrease) Communications $ 684,908 $ 658,566 $ 26,342 4.0 % Industrial, defense and medical 641,832 455,152 186,680 41.0 % Embedded computing and storage 344,422 333,780 10,642 3.2 % Total $ 1,671,162 $ 1,447,498 $ 223,664 15.5 % Net sales increased from $1.45 billion in the first quarter of 2014 to $1.67 billion in the first quarter of 2015, an increase of 15.5% . The increase was primarily due to growth in our industrial, defense and medical market which occurred as a 19 result of customer program acquisitions (one near the end of the first quarter of 2014 and another in the third quarter of 2014) and increased demand from existing customers, both for established programs and new program wins. Sales to our communications end market increased primarily as a result of increased demand for optical products. Gross Margin Consolidated gross margin decreased slightly to 7.6% for the first quarter of 2015 , from 7.7% for the first quarter of 2014 , primarily as a result of a $3.9 million charge associated with a distressed customer in the first quarter of 2015. IMS gross margin increased to 7.3% for the first quarter of 2015 from 7.0% for the first quarter of 2014, primarily as a result of increased business volume. CPS gross margin decreased slightly to 9.0% for the first quarter of 2015, from 9.1% for the first quarter of 2014. We expect gross margins to fluctuate based on overall production and shipment volumes and changes in the mix of products demanded by our major customers . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , some of which are outside of our control , including: Changes in customer demand and sales volumes for our vertically integrated system components and subassemblies; Changes in the overall volume of our business, which affect the level of capacity utilization; Changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; Parts shortages and operational disruption caused by natural disasters; Greater competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; Provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including provisions associated with distressed customers; Level of operational efficiency; Wage inflation and rising materials costs; and Our ability to transition manufacturing and assembly operations to lower cost regions in an efficient manner. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $1.6 million, from $71.3 million , or 4.9% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2014 to $72.9 million , or 4.4% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2015 . The increase was due primarily to a $2.0 million asset impairment charge related to a decline in the fair value of a certain real property being marketed for sale. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $1.0 million for the first quarter of 2015 , compared to the first quarter of 2014 primarily as a result of a $132.2 million reduction of long-term debt from the end of 2013 to the end of the first quarter of 2015. Other Income (Expense), net The following table presents the significant components of other income (expense), net: Three Months Ended December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 (In thousands) Foreign exchange gains $ 199 $ 47 Loss on extinguishment of debt (2,913 ) Other, net 1,186 831 Total $ (1,528 ) $ 878 On October 8, 2014, we redeemed the remaining $100 million outstanding of our senior notes due 2019 ("2019 Notes") at par plus a redemption premium and accrued interest and recorded a net loss on extinguishment of debt of $2.9 million, consisting of redemption premiums of $5.3 million and a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of $1.4 million, partially offset by a $3.8 million credit for the fair value hedge adjustment associated with the extinguished 2019 Notes. 20 We reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations through the use of foreign currency hedging instruments; however, our hedges are established based on estimated foreign currency balances. To the extent actual amounts differ from estimated amounts, we will have exposure to currency fluctuations that results in foreign exchange gains or losses. Provision for Income Taxes We estimate our annual effective income tax rate at the end of each quarterly period. The estimate takes into account the geographic mix of expected pre-tax income (loss), expected total annual pre-tax income (loss), enacted changes in tax laws, implementation of tax planning strategies and possible outcomes of audits and other uncertain tax positions. To the extent there are fluctuations in any of these variables during a period, the provision for income taxes may vary. The provision for income taxes for the first quarters of 2015 and 2014 was $23.1 million and $10.6 million , respectively. The increase was primarily due to an increase in pre-tax income, changes in the jurisdictional mix of where income was earned and discrete events including changes in tax law in certain foreign jurisdictions. We conduct business globally and, as a result, file income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. In 2014, a foreign tax authority completed its audit of our 2006 tax return and issued an assessment challenging certain of our tax positions, most notably intercompany transfer pricing. We disagree with the assessment and are vigorously contesting it through the appropriate administrative procedures. In accordance with the accounting requirements for uncertain tax positions, we have concluded that we will more likely than not prevail in all positions based upon their technical merits. The final outcome of this audit cannot be reliably predicted and could materially affect our financial statements if not resolved in a manner consistent with our tax positions. We are currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service for fiscal years 2008 through 2010. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different from the amounts accrued, this would result in a decrease in unrecognized net operating losses and would not have an impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we are being audited by various state tax agencies and certain foreign countries. To the extent the final tax liabilities are different from the amounts accrued, the increases or decreases would be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the consolidated statements of income. Although we believe that resolution of these audits will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, the outcome is subject to uncertainty. In each of the past three years, we have released a portion of our valuation allowance attributable to certain deferred tax assets in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. These releases have ranged from $21.5 million to $158.7 million. As of September 27, 2014, we had a valuation allowance of $663.2 million. To the extent we continue to consistently earn, as well as reliably project, income in the appropriate jurisdictions, it is possible that the valuation allowance will be further reduced at such time when such positive evidence can be substantiated. Additional strong and predictable earnings may be sufficient to warrant an additional release of the valuation allowance in 2015, although such positive evidence would need to be weighed against any negative evidence existing at that time. 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended December 27, 2014 December 28, 2013 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (6,169 ) $ 38,243 Investing activities (27,776 ) (71,103 ) Financing activities (41,523 ) 37,026 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 10 10 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (75,458 ) $ 4,176 Key Liquidity Performance Measures Three Months Ended December 27, 2014 September 27, 2014 Days sales outstanding (1) 53 52 Inventory turns (2) 6.9 7.0 Days inventory on hand (3) 53 52 Accounts payable days (4) 66 65 Cash cycle days (5) 40 39 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or "DSO", is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Inventory turns (annualized) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (3) Days inventory on hand is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (4) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or "DPO", is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (5) Cash cycle days is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $391.1 million at December 27, 2014 and $466.6 million at September 27, 2014 . Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under credit facilities and repurchases of debt and capital stock, and other factors. Our working capital was approximately $1.0 billion as of December 27, 2014 and $0.9 billion as of September 27, 2014 . Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $(6.2) million and $38.2 million for the first quarter of 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and losses from debt extinguishment; and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. During the first quarter of 2015 , we generated $68.2 million of cash from net income, excluding non-cash items, and used $74.4 million of cash because of an increase in net operating assets, which resulted primarily from a decrease in accounts payable of $55.2 million and an increase in inventory of $17.0 million . Our DPO and days inventory on hand each increased by one day. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments and purchases, customer and supplier mix, and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. 22 Net cash used in investing activities was $27.8 million and $71.1 million for the first quarter of 2015 and 2014 , respectively. During the first quarter of 2015 , we used $28.7 million of cash for capital expenditures and received proceeds of $0.9 million primarily from the sale of certain property. During the first quarter of 2014, we used $13.6 million of cash for capital expenditures and paid $57.7 million in connection with a customer program acquisition. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(41.5) million and $37.0 million for the first quarter of 2015 and 2014 , respectively. During the first quarter of 2015 , we received $49.8 million of net proceeds from short-term borrowings, received $3.3 million from termination of an interest rate swap, received $11.9 million of proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises and redeemed $100 million of long-term debt for $105.3 million . During the first quarter of 2014, we received $61.5 million of net proceeds from short-term borrowings, received $1.1 million of proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises and paid $25.6 million for repurchases of common stock, including $0.4 million of cash used for common stock repurchases to fund employee tax withholding obligations. Other Liquidity Matters Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase up to $200 million of our common stock. The timing of repurchases made will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although the stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, purchases of shares made under this program will reduce our liquidity. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the open market during the first quarter of 2015. As of December 27, 2014 , $125 million remains available under these authorizations. The Loan Agreement covering our $40 million debt secured by our corporate campus contains a financial covenant that is only applicable to us in the event of a credit ratings agency downgrade or if certain trigger periods relating to liquidity under our existing revolving credit facility occur. None of these conditions existed as of December 27, 2014. Therefore, our debt agreements do not contain financial covenants currently applicable to us, but do include a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. These covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions which the covenants could otherwise restrict, including refinancing our existing debt. In addition, such agreements include covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain casualty insurance. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under our asset-backed revolving credit facility would not be allowed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. As of December 27, 2014 , we were in compliance with these covenants. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of December 27, 2014 , we had accrued liabilities of $21.2 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these accruals will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. As of December 27, 2014 , we had a liability of $86.9 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. Our primary sources of liquidity as of December 27, 2014 included (1) cash of $391.1 million ; (2) our $300 million asset-backed revolving credit facility, under which $217.9 million , net of outstanding letters of credit, was available as of December 27, 2014 ; (3) foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $74 million , all of which was available as of December 27, 2014 (an aggregate of $25.0 million of such facilities expire during the second quarter of 2015 and most of the remainder of such facilities expire during the fourth quarter of 2015 ); and (4) cash generated from operations. In addition, we are actively marketing a portfolio of surplus real estate with an aggregate list price of approximately $65 million. Proceeds from the sales of properties in this portfolio will provide additional liquidity. However, there can be no assurance as to the amounts that may actually be raised or the exact timing of any such receipts. 23 We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for the next 12 months. Should demand for our services change significantly over the next 12 months or should we experience increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable, our cash provided by operations could be adversely impacted. As of December 27, 2014 , 57% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with cash available under our United States credit facility and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations As of December 27, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we entered into a lease agreement with an option to purchase the leased facility for $25.3 million (Canadian dollars) in the third quarter of 2015. We exercised the purchase option during the first quarter of 2015. In addition, in December 2014, we amended the Loan Agreement covering our $40 million loan secured by our corporate campus headquarters in order to extend its maturity date from July 2015 to December 2017, to reduce the interest rate payable thereunder and to provide for a financial covenant that is triggered if certain liquidity conditions occur. There have been no other material changes to our contractual obligations or commitments during the first quarter of 2015. 24