Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin or operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, cash flow, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the financial impact of customer bankruptcies; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of completed, pending or anticipated acquisitions; any statements about the expected results of real property sales; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part I, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the following industries: communications networks, storage, industrial, defense, medical, energy and industries that include embedded computing technologies such as point of sales devices, casino gaming and automotive. In accordance with the accounting rules for segment reporting, our only reportable segment is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and 2016. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1. Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). IMS is a reportable segment consisting of printed circuit board assembly and test, final system assembly and test, and direct-order-fulfillment. 2. Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include interconnect systems (printed circuit board fabrication, backplane and cable assemblies) and mechanical systems (enclosures, precision machining and plastic injection molding). Products include memory, RF, optical and microelectronics solutions from our Viking Technology division, defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology, storage solutions from our Newisys division and cloud-based manufacturing execution software from our 42Q Division. Services include design, engineering, logistics and repair services. All references to years in this section refer to our fiscal years ending on the last Saturday of each year closest to September 30. Fiscal 2017 and 2016 are each 52 weeks. Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive product and service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. These include companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to 16 differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues continues to be challenging. For example, CPS revenue and gross margins have decreased in each of the past two fiscal years, illustrating the challenges to our strategy. We believe this business is capable of consistently delivering much better results. We continue to address these challenges on both a short-term and long-term basis. A small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers have typically represented approximately 50% of our net sales. Two customers represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2016 . No customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended January 2, 2016 . We have typically generated about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to require production in lower cost locations in regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe to minimize their production and, in some cases, logistics costs. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and cover manufacturing services for a range of products in addition to other services. Under these agreements, a customer typically agrees to purchase specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products and some contracts contain cost reduction objectives, which can have the effect of reducing revenue, but not necessarily gross profit, from such customers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to product returns, accounts receivable, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2016. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 January 2, 2016 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,719,977 $ 1,534,714 Gross profit $ 132,162 $ 123,638 Operating income $ 58,656 $ 54,053 Net income $ 44,864 $ 27,138 17 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 January 2, 2016 Increase/(Decrease) Communications Networks $ 642,589 $ 604,765 $ 37,824 6.3 % Industrial, Medical and Defense 777,497 609,804 167,693 27.5 % Embedded Computing and Storage 299,891 320,145 (20,254 ) (6.3 )% Total $ 1,719,977 $ 1,534,714 $ 185,263 12.1 % Net sales increased from $1.53 billion in the first quarter of 2016 to $1.72 billion in the first quarter of 2017 , an increase of 12.1% . Sales to customers in our industrial, medical and defense market increased 27.5% primarily as a result of a customer program acquisition. Sales to customers in our communications networks end market increased 6.3% primarily as a result of new program wins. Sales to customers in our embedded computing and storage end market decreased 6.3% primarily due to decreased end-market demand for a customer's point-of-sale equipment. Gross Margin Gross margin decreased to 7.7% for the first quarter of 2017 , from 8.1% for the first quarter of 2016 . IMS gross margin decreased to 7.3% for the first quarter of 2017 from 7.7% for the first quarter of 2016 due primarily to unfavorable product mix and costs associated with new program ramp-ups. CPS gross margin increased to 9.5% for the first quarter of 2017 from 8.7% for the first quarter of 2016 , primarily as a result of increased sales in our products group. We expect gross margins to fluctuate based on overall production and shipment volumes and changes in the mix of products demanded by our major customers . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , some of which are outside of our control , including: Changes in customer demand and sales volumes for our vertically integrated system components and subassemblies; Changes in the overall volume of our business, which affect the level of capacity utilization; Changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; Parts shortages and operational disruption caused by natural disasters; Greater competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; Provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including provisions associated with distressed customers; Level of operational efficiency; Wage inflation and rising materials costs; and Our ability to transition the location of manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in an efficient manner. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $3.9 million , from $69.6 million , or 4.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2016 to $73.5 million , or 4.3% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017 . This increase was primarily attributable to higher incentive compensation, including stock compensation expense which increased as a result of incremental expense for certain performance based stock awards that were deemed probable of achievement in the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by lower research and development expenses. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net decreased $2.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 due primarily to lower daily average borrowings on our revolving credit facility in 2017. The following table presents the significant components of other income (expense), net: 18 Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 January 2, 2016 (In thousands) Foreign exchange gain (loss) $ 1,226 $ (829 ) Other income, net 31 611 Total $ 1,257 $ (218 ) Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 was $10.0 million ( 18.2% of income before taxes) and $21.0 million ( 43.6% of income before taxes), respectively. Although pre-tax income was higher in the first quarter of 2017, income tax expense decreased primarily as a result of a tax benefit from the restructuring of certain foreign entities. 19 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 January 2, 2016 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 53,927 $ 62,660 Investing activities (18,085 ) (28,708 ) Financing activities (30,242 ) (48,384 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,352 626 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 6,952 $ (13,806 ) Key Working Capital Management Measures Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 October 1, 2016 Days sales outstanding (1) 52 53 Inventory turns (2) 6.7 6.6 Days inventory on hand (3) 55 55 Accounts payable days (4) 66 66 Cash cycle days (5) 41 42 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or "DSO", is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Inventory turns (annualized) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (3) Days inventory on hand is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (4) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or "DPO", is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (5) Cash cycle days is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $405.2 million at December 31, 2016 and $398.3 million at October 1, 2016 . Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under credit facilities, repurchases of capital stock and other factors. Our working capital was approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2016 and October 1, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities was $53.9 million and $62.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016 , respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes and stock-based compensation expense and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we generated $87.9 million of cash from net income, excluding non-cash items, and consumed $34.0 million of cash from an increase in our net operating assets caused by various factors including payment of 2016 annual and fourth quarter bonuses in the first quarter of 2017 and semi-annual payments of interest expense due in the first quarter of each year. Increased business volume caused accounts receivable and inventory to increase 20 by $22.8 million and $19.3 million , respectively. These increases were substantially offset by a corresponding increase in accounts payable of $39.4 million . DPO and DSO were consistent in both periods. Net cash used in investing activities was $18.1 million and $28.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016 , respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we used $21.7 million of cash for capital expenditures and received proceeds of $3.6 million primarily from the sale of a certain property. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , we used $28.9 million of cash for capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was $30.2 million and $48.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016 , respectively. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we used $13.6 million of cash for repurchases of common stock related to employee tax withholdings on vested restricted stock units, used $25.0 million of cash for net repayments of short-term borrowings, paid $2.3 million in connection with a previous business combination and received $10.6 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , we used $28.7 million of cash to repurchase common stock on the open market, repaid a net amount of $24.0 million of short-term borrowings and received $4.3 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Other Liquidity Matters Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock, subject to a dollar limitation. The timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, purchases of shares will reduce our liquidity. We did not repurchase any of our common stock during the first quarter of 2017 and, as of December 31, 2016 , we had $212.8 million remaining available to repurchase shares of our common stock under programs authorized by the Board of Directors. On January 31, 2017, subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2017 , we made an irrevocable election to repay our Secured debt due 2017 prior to its scheduled maturity of December 19, 2017. Accordingly, this debt obligation of $40.0 million will be paid on February 7, 2017, with no penalty for early repayment. Our $375 million secured revolving credit facility (the "Cash Flow Revolver") requires us to comply with certain financial covenants and our Secured Debt loan agreement contains a financial covenant that is only applicable to us if certain conditions exist, none of which existed as of December 31, 2016 . The covenant associated with our Secured Debt will no longer be applicable after February 7, 2017 when such debt is repaid. Additionally, our debt agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. These covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions which the covenants could otherwise restrict, including refinancing our existing debt. In addition, such agreements include covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain casualty insurance. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under our asset-backed revolving credit facility would not be allowed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. As of December 31, 2016 , we were in compliance with these covenants. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of December 31, 2016 , we had reserves of $42.2 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. In connection with a previously completed acquisition, we could be required to make additional cash payments of up to $18.0 million if certain annual earnings targets are achieved in the next three years. As of December 31, 2016 , we had a liability of $89.7 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. 21 Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. Our primary sources of liquidity as of December 31, 2016 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $405.2 million ; (2) our Cash Flow Revolver, under which $358.2 million , net of outstanding letters of credit, was available as of December 31, 2016 ; (3) foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $74.0 million , all of which was available as of December 31, 2016 (an aggregate of $25.5 million of such facilities expire at various dates through the third quarter of 2017); and (4) cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Should demand for our services change significantly over the next 12 months or should we experience increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable, our cash provided by operations could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2016 , 54% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Cash Flow Revolver and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 22