Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin, operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, or cash flow; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding litigation or pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of acquisitions and other strategic transactions, including our Indian joint venture and the pending acquisition of ZT Group Intl, Inc. (ZT Systems); any statements regarding expected restructuring costs and benefits; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements regarding the potential impact of any future pandemics on our business, results of operations and financial condition; any statements regarding the potential impact of supply chain shortages and inflation on our business; any statements regarding the future impact of tariffs, export controls and evolving trade policies on our business; any statements relating to future tax rates and tax policies and our expectations concerning developments in the audit by the IRS of certain tax returns filed by us, including the potential impact of the IRS revenue agents report received by us in November 2023; any statements relating to the expected impact of accounting pronouncements not yet adopted;any statements regarding future repurchases of our common stock; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Investors and others should note that Sanmina announces material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://ir.sanmina.com/investor-relations/overview/default.aspx), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about Sanmina, its products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on our investor relations website could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Sanmina to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The contents of our investor relations website are not incorporated by reference into this quarterly report on Form 10-Q or in any other report or document we file with the SEC. Sanmina Corporation and its subsidiaries (Sanmina, the Company, we or us) operate on a 52 or 53 week year ending on the Saturday nearest September 30. Fiscal 2025 and 2024 are each 52-week years. All references to years relate to fiscal years unless otherwise noted. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that serve the industrial, medical, defense and aerospace, automotive, communications networks and cloud solutions industries. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1.Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). IMS is a single operating segment consisting of printed circuit board assembly and test, high-level assembly and test and direct-order-fulfillment. 2.Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include advanced printed circuit boards, backplanes and backplane assemblies, cable assemblies, fabricated metal parts, precision machined parts, and plastic injected molded parts. Products include optical, radio frequency (RF) and microelectronic design and manufacturing services from our Advanced Microsystems Technologies division; multi-chip package memory solutions from our Viking Technology division; high-performance storage platforms for hyperscale and enterprise solutions from our Viking Enterprise Solutions division; defense and aerospace product, design, manufacturing, repair and refurbishment services from our SCI Technology Inc. (SCI) subsidiary; and cloud-based smart manufacturing execution software from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering, and logistics and repair. 24 Our only reportable segment for financial reporting purposes is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is combined and presented in a single category entitled CPS. Sales to our ten largest customers represent approximately 50% of net sales. Net sales from these customers are derived from multiple segments. No customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three and nine months ended June 28, 2025. One customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2024. Trends and Uncertainties We believe our end-to-end manufacturing solutions combined with our global supply chain management expertise differentiate us from our competitors and enable us to better serve the needs of OEMs. However, our business faces many challenges. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. This includes companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche product, service or end market. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and offer many advantages compared to our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. Additionally, we are impacted by macroeconomic challenges, such as inflation, supply chain constraints, foreign currency fluctuations, high interest rates, market volatility, recession concerns, that have been and could be in the future exacerbated by geopolitical environment such as tensions between the U.S. and China, conflict in the Middle East and war in Ukraine. Further, uncertainties around U.S. tariffs, retaliatory tariffs from other countries, and import/export restrictions may impact customer decisions to use our services in certain manufacturing locations and increase the complexity and cost of our supply chain. Although our customers are generally liable for tariffs we pay for components and finished products, our gross margins could be significantly reduced if we are unable to fully recover these costs. The timing of tariff recovery from customers could adversely affect our operating cash flow in a given period. Despite these challenges, we remain focused on improving our operations, building flexibility and efficiencies in our processes and adjusting our business models to changing circumstances. We intend to continue diversifying into mission critical markets and creating a portfolio of more complex, higher technology products with longer product life cycles. As our end markets evolve and grow, our ability to optimize our product and portfolio mix towards higher value opportunities will continue to be an important driver for our business going forward. Pending Acquisition of ZT Systems In line with our strategic intent to expand our presence in the Cloud and Artificial Intelligence ecosystem, we entered into an agreement to acquire ZT Systems data center infrastructure manufacturing business from AMD Design, LLC, with the acquisition expected to close near the end of 2025 calendar year, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Please see Note 12, Business Combination of the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for more information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to accounts receivable, inventories, income taxes, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies, as well as estimates related to costs expected to be incurred to satisfy performance obligations under long-term contracts and variable consideration related to such contracts. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. A complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates is contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2024 filed with the SEC on November 27, 2024. 25 Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 (In thousands) Net sales $ 2,041,562 $ 1,841,430 $ 6,031,990 $ 5,550,823 Gross profit $ 181,050 $ 153,539 $ 525,200 $ 469,136 Operating income $ 95,877 $ 82,367 $ 276,103 $ 245,904 Net income attributable to common shareholders $ 68,616 $ 51,602 $ 197,827 $ 161,155 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 Increase/(Decrease) June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 Increase/(Decrease) (Dollars in thousands) Industrial, Medical, Defense and Aerospace, and Automotive $ 1,255,297 $ 1,181,489 $ 73,808 6.2 % $ 3,775,853 $ 3,663,208 $ 112,645 3.1 % Communications Networks and Cloud Infrastructure 786,265 659,941 126,324 19.1 % 2,256,137 1,887,615 368,522 19.5 % Total $ 2,041,562 $ 1,841,430 $ 200,132 10.9 % $ 6,031,990 $ 5,550,823 $ 481,167 8.7 % Net sales increased 10.9% in the three months ended June 28, 2025 compared to the three months ended June 29, 2024 and 8.7% in the nine months ended June 28, 2025 compared to the nine months ended June 29, 2024, primarily driven by new program wins and program ramp-ups in our communications networks and cloud infrastructure, as well as our medical end market. Gross Margin Gross margin increased to 8.9% for the three months ended June 28, 2025 from 8.3% for the three months ended June 29, 2024. IMS gross margin remained relatively stable, at 7.5% for the three months ended June 28, 2025 compared to 7.6% for the three months ended June 29, 2024. CPS gross margin increased to 14.7% for the three months ended June 28, 2025 from 11.5% for the three months ended June 29, 2024, primarily due to improved operating efficiencies. Gross margin increased to 8.7% for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 from 8.5% for the nine months ended June 29, 2024. IMS gross margin remained relatively stable at 7.7% for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 compared to 7.6% for the nine months ended June 29, 2024. CPS gross margin increased to 13.7% for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 from 12.4% for the nine months ended June 29, 2024, primarily due to improved operating efficiencies. We have experienced fluctuations in gross margin in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors, including: the impact of supply chain constraints on our operations, the operations of our suppliers and on our customers businesses; capacity utilization, which, if lower, results in lower margins due to fixed costs being absorbed by lower volumes; changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; competition and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; the amount of our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including those associated with distressed customers; levels of operational efficiency and production yields; our performance on long-term contracts, including our ability to recover claims for cost overruns; and 26 our ability to transition the location of and ramp manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024 were $70 million and $62 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 3.4% for each of the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher variable compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024 were $217 million and $196 million, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 3.6% and 3.5% for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024, respectively. The increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher variable compensation, professional fees and stock-based compensation expense from new equity grants. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024 was $19 million (20% of income before taxes) and $20 million (27% of income before taxes), respectively. The effective tax rate was lower for the three months ended June 28, 2025 primarily due to change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings and favorable discrete tax events, including a $2 million benefit from the release of certain foreign tax reserves due to expiration of statute of limitations. Provision for income taxes for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024 was $52 million (19% of income before taxes) and $60 million (26% of income before taxes), respectively. The effective tax rate was lower for the nine months ended June 28, 2025 primarily due to a change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings and favorable discrete tax events, including a $3 million benefit from a change in tax law, a $3 million benefit from the release of certain foreign tax reserves due to expiration of statute of limitations and a $4 million benefit from stock-based compensation. Liquidity and Capital Resources Nine Months Ended June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 421,578 $ 288,341 Investing activities (45,563) (88,499) Financing activities (165,616) (209,295) Effect of exchange rate changes 1,461 (408) Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash equivalents $ 211,860 $ (9,861) Key Working Capital Management Measures Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess our operating results. Our working capital requirements are dependent on the effective management of our sales cycle, as well as timing of payments. We believe the metrics set forth below are useful to investors in measuring our liquidity, as future liquidity needs will depend on fluctuations in levels of inventory, contract assets, customer inventory advances, accounts receivable and accounts payable. In the second quarter of fiscal 2025, we changed the methodology for calculating key working capital management measures to standardize the number of days utilized in calculating the metrics, add a new metric for customer inventory advances days, and update the calculation of inventory turns to present inventory turns net of customer working capital advances, which is consistent with how we manage working capital. Prior period amounts have been conformed to the current period presentation. 27 As of June 28, 2025 September 28, 2024 Days in accounts receivable (1) 61 60 Contract asset days (2) 18 17 Days in inventory (3) 77 70 Days in accounts payable (4) 69 70 Customer inventory advances days (5) 20 7 Cash cycle days (6) 67 70 Net inventory turns (7) 6 6 (1) Days in accounts receivable (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or DSO, is calculated as accounts receivable, net, at the end of the current quarter divided by net sales for the quarter multiplied by 90 days. (2) Contract asset days (a measure of how quickly we transfer contract assets to accounts receivable) is calculated as contract assets at the end of the current quarter divided by net sales for the quarter multiplied by 90 days. (3) Days in inventory (a measure of how quickly we turn inventory into sales) is calculated as inventory at the end of the current quarter divided by cost of sales for the quarter multiplied by 90 days. (4) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or DPO, is calculated as accounts payable at the end of the current quarter divided by cost of sales for the quarter multiplied by 90 days. (5) Customer inventory advances days (a measure of how long customer deposits for inventory are held) is calculated as customer inventory advances at the end of the current quarter divided by cost of sales for the quarter multiplied by 90 days. (6) Cash cycle days is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable, contract asset days and days in inventory, minus the sum of accounts payable days and customer inventory advances days. (7) Net inventory turns (annualized) is calculated as 360 days divided by the days in inventory minus customer inventory advances days. Cash and cash equivalents were $798 million as of June 28, 2025 and $626 million as of September 28, 2024. Restricted cash equivalents as of June 28, 2025 were $40 million. Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under our credit facilities, sales of accounts receivable under numerous programs we utilize, repurchases of common stock and other factors. Our working capital was $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion as of June 28, 2025 and September 28, 2024, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $422 million for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, the extent to which we factor customer receivables and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During the nine months ended June 28, 2025, we generated $353 million of cash from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and $69 million of cash due primarily to increase in deferred revenue and customer advances, partially offset by increases in inventories, contract assets, accounts receivables and decrease in accounts payable. The increases in inventories, contract assets and accounts receivables were consistent with the growth in business volume. The change in deferred revenue and customer advances is driven by increased customer deposits against raw material inventory purchases. The decrease in accounts payable is primarily due to timing of payments. Net cash used in investing activities was $46 million for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. During the nine months ended June 28, 2025, we received $49 million from liquidation of investments held in a former rabbi trust for our deferred compensation plan assets, received $5 million proceeds primarily from the sale of certain property, purchased $15 million of long-term investments and used $85 million of cash for capital expenditures. 28 Net cash used in financing activities was $166 million for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. During the nine months ended June 28, 2025, we used $114 million of cash to repurchase common stock, withheld $39 million payments to tax authorities for stock-based compensation activity and repaid $13 million of borrowings. Other Liquidity Matters We repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock for $114 million under stock repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. During the second quarter of 2025, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of our common stock in the open market or in negotiated private transactions. These programs have no expiration dates and the timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, they also reduce our liquidity. As of June 28, 2025, an aggregate of $239 million remained available under these programs. We are party to a Receivables Purchase Agreement, as amended (the RPA), with certain third-party banking institutions for the sale of trade receivables generated from sales to certain customers. The amount available under the RPA is uncommitted and, as such, is available at the discretion of our third-party banking institutions. Under the Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement), the percentage of our total trade receivables that can be sold and outstanding at any time is 50%. Therefore, as of June 28, 2025, a maximum of $490 million of sold receivables could be outstanding at any point in time under this program, as amended, as required by our Credit Agreement. Trade receivables sold pursuant to the RPA are serviced by us. In addition to the RPA, we participate in trade receivables sales programs that have been implemented by certain of our customers, as in effect from time to time. We do not service trade receivables sold under these other programs. The sale of receivables under all of these programs is subject to the approval of the banks or customers involved and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the maximum amount of receivables permitted by these programs when desired. See Note 6, Accounts Receivable Sale Program of the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for details. We enter into forward interest rate swap agreements with independent counterparties to partially hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in the Secured Overnight Financing Rate benchmark interest rate associated with anticipated variable rate borrowings. In addition, beginning the second quarter of 2025, we entered into a total return swap contract to manage the equity market risks associated with our deferred compensation plan liabilities. See Note 3, Financial Instruments of the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for details. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, regulatory, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of June 28, 2025, we had accrued liabilities of $36 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. As of June 28, 2025, we had a liability of $51 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity is largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including sales of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. We generated $422 million of cash from operations for the nine months ended June 28, 2025. Our primary sources of liquidity as of June 28, 2025 consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $798 million (an aggregate of $212 million of our cash is held by Sanmina SCI India Private Limited (SIPL), our existing Indian manufacturing entity, that may not be used for general corporate purposes and must be retained in SIPL to fund its operations); (2) our Credit Agreement, under which $791 million, net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available; (3) our foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $71 million, all of which was available; (4) proceeds from the sale of accounts receivable under our receivables sales programs and (5) cash generated from operations. Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $200 million. 29 We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements through at least the next twelve months. However, should demand for our services decrease significantly over the next twelve months, should we be unable to recover on inventory obligations owed to us by our customers or should we experience significant increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable for any reason, our cash provided by operations could decrease significantly and we could be required to seek additional sources of liquidity to continue our operations at their current level. We invest our cash among a number of financial institutions that we believe to be of high quality. However, there can be no assurance that one or more of such institutions will not become insolvent in the future, in which case all or a portion of our uninsured funds on deposit with such institutions could be lost. As of June 28, 2025, 40% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations, which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Credit Agreement and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. In connection with the pending acquisition of ZT Systems, we entered into a commitment letter with certain financial institutions that have agreed to provide us with committed financing, subject to satisfaction of customary conditions and covenants, a senior secured 364-day bridge loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2.5 billion to fund a portion of the purchase consideration and to pay related fees and expenses. The commitment is intended to be drawn only to the extent that permanent financing is not obtained prior to closing the acquisition. As alternative financing is secured, the commitment letter will be reduced. See Note 12, Business Combination of the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for details. Information regarding our contractual obligations was provided in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2024. There were no material changes in our contractual obligations as of June 28, 2025. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 28, 2025, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 30