Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin or operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, cash flow, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the timing of closing of, future cash outlays for, and benefits of completed, pending or anticipated acquisitions; any statements regarding our restructuring plans; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview We are a leading global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our products and services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the following industries: communications networks, data storage, industrial, defense and aerospace, medical, energy and industries that include embedded computing technologies in products such as set-top boxes, point-of-sales devices, casino gaming machines and automotive components and systems. Our only reportable segment is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments under the accounting rules for segment reporting. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1. Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). Our IMS segment consists of printed circuit board assembly and test, final system assembly and test and direct-order-fulfillment. 2. Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include interconnect systems (printed circuit board fabrication, backplane and cable assemblies and plastic injection molding) and mechanical systems (enclosures and precision machining). Products include memory, RF, optical and microelectronics solutions from our Viking Technology division, defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology, data storage solutions from our Newisys division and cloud-based manufacturing execution solutions from our 42Q division. Services include design, engineering, logistics and repair services. All references to years in this section refer to our fiscal years ending on the last Saturday of each year closest to September 30. Fiscal 2017 and 2016 are each 52 weeks. Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive product and service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that offer significant growth opportunities and that have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide the potential for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. This includes companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been 18 challenging. For example, revenue in our IMS business has been negatively impacted in the past two quarters by parts shortages and delays in new program ramps caused by customer design changes and other factors, and was impacted in the current quarter as a result of customer order cancellations and push outs. These factors have resulted in a decrease in gross margins for our IMS business from 7.3% in the first quarter of 2017 to 5.8% in the first quarter of 2018 due to unfavorable changes in customer program mix and under absorption of fixed costs. Additionally, gross margin for our CPS business was 8.4% in the first quarter of 2018, down from 9.5% in the first quarter of 2017 and 8.8% in the fourth quarter of 2017, and well below our expectations for this business. We continue to address these challenges on both a short-term and long-term basis. For example, our previously announced consolidated restructuring plan will result in the closure of one of our manufacturing facilities serving our CPS business, which we expect to generate some incremental cost savings for our CPS business beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018. A small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers have typically represented approximately 50% of our net sales. Two customers each represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 . We typically generate about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to manufacture in lower cost regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and can cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically purchases its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products, which can have the effect of reducing revenue and profitability. In addition, some customer contracts contain cost reduction objectives, which can also have the effect of reducing revenue from such customers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to product returns, accounts receivable, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2017. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,744,800 $ 1,719,977 Gross profit $ 109,466 $ 132,162 Operating income $ 13,788 $ 58,656 Net income (loss) (1) $ (154,910 ) $ 44,864 (1) The results of operations for three months ended December 30, 2017 include a $162 million non-cash tax charge due to the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 19 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 Increase/(Decrease) Industrial, Medical and Defense $ 795,642 $ 777,497 $ 18,145 2.3 % Communications Networks 678,846 642,589 36,257 5.6 % Embedded Computing and Storage 270,312 299,891 (29,579 ) (9.9 )% Total $ 1,744,800 $ 1,719,977 $ 24,823 1.4 % Net sales increased from $1.72 billion in the first quarter of 2017 to $1.74 billion in the first quarter of 2018 , an increase of 1.4% . Sales to customers in our industrial, medical and defense market increased 2.3% primarily as a result of increased demand in our medical market. Sales to customers in our communications networks end market increased 5.6% primarily as a result of increased demand and new program wins for wireless products, partially offset by the effect of decreased demand for optical products. Sales to customers in our embedded computing and storage end market decreased 9.9% primarily due to reduced demand from a particular storage customer. Gross Margin Gross margin decreased to 6.3% for the first quarter of 2018 from 7.7% for the first quarter of 2017 . IMS gross margin decreased to 5.8% for the first quarter of 2018 from 7.3% for the first quarter of 2017 due primarily to unfavorable program mix, under absorption of labor and overhead costs caused by lower revenue than anticipated due to parts shortages and customer order push outs and cancellations late in the period that did not allow us sufficient time to re-align our costs, and high fixed costs and yield issues associated with new program ramp-ups. CPS gross margin decreased to 8.4% for the first quarter of 2018 from 9.5% for the first quarter of 2017 primarily due to unfavorable revenue mix, operational inefficiencies and customer program transfer costs, as well as continued depressed conditions in the oil and gas industry. We expect gross margins to fluctuate based on overall production and shipment volumes and changes in the mix of products demanded by our major customers . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , some of which are outside of our control , including: Changes in customer demand and sales volumes for our vertically integrated system components and subassemblies; Changes in the overall volume of our business, which affect the level of capacity utilization; Changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; Parts shortages and extended parts lead times caused by high demand or natural disasters, and related operational disruption and inefficiencies; Greater competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; Provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including provisions associated with distressed customers; Levels of operational efficiency and production yields; Wage inflation and rising materials costs; Our ability to transition the location of and ramp manufacturing and assembly operations when requested by a customer in a timely and cost-effective manner. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, General and Administrative expenses decreased $1.5 million , from $65.1 million , or 3.8% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017 to $63.6 million , or 3.6% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018 . This decrease was primarily attributable to lower incentive compensation. Research and Development Research and Development expenses decreased $0.6 million , from $8.2 million , or 0.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2017 to $7.6 million , or 0.4% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2018 . 20 Restructuring For the first quarter of 2018, we adopted a consolidated restructuring plan to address the closure and/or relocation of three of our manufacturing facilities. The following table is a summary of restructuring costs associated with this plan: Estimated Costs to Implement Restructuring Expense for the three months ended December 30, 2017 (In thousands) Severance costs (approximately 2,900 employees) $ 27,700 $ 23,301 Other exit costs (will be recognized as incurred) 7,300 Total - Q1 FY18 plan $ 35,000 $ 23,301 Costs incurred for other plans 241 Total - all plans $ 35,000 $ 23,542 Actions under the consolidated restructuring plan began in the first quarter of 2018 and are expected to occur through the first quarter of 2020. Cash payments of severance and other costs are expected to begin in the second quarter of 2018 and occur through the first quarter of 2020. As of December 30, 2017 , accrued restructuring costs of $ 12 million were recorded in accrued liabilities and $11.0 million was recorded in other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Of the $35 million expected restructuring costs, $24.6 million is attributable to our IMS segment and $10.4 million is attributable to our CPS segment. Of the $23.3 million of restructuring costs recorded in the first quarter of 2018, $19.5 million is attributable to our IMS segment and $3.8 million is attributable our CPS segment. Other Income, Net Other income, net for the three months ended December 30, 2017 increased $2.0 million from the three months ended December 31, 2016 due primarily to a gain on deferred compensation plan assets in the first quarter of 2018 versus a loss in the first quarter of 2017 . The following table presents the significant components of other income, net: Three Months Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 (In thousands) Foreign exchange gains $ 1,528 $ 1,226 Other, net 1,702 31 Total $ 3,230 $ 1,257 Provision for Income Taxes On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the Tax Act) was enacted into law. In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, we are required to recognize the effect of the Tax Act in the period of enactment, which was our first quarter of fiscal 2018 that ended on December 30, 2017. The many changes in the Tax Act include a permanent reduction in the maximum federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective as of January 1, 2018. The statutory federal income tax rate applicable for our fiscal year ending September 29, 2018 is expected to be 24.5% based on a fiscal year blended rate calculation. Because of this reduction in rate, we were required to revalue our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new rate in our first quarter of 2018. The Tax Act also requires a mandatory deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings and profits, at the rate of either 15.5% for cash or 8% for non-liquid assets. 21 As of the end of the first quarter of 2018, we have made reasonable estimates of the impact of the Tax Act and, in accordance with the SEC's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, have recorded a provisional net income tax expense of approximately $162 million , which is comprised of $176 million for the remeasurement of our U.S deferred tax assets, zero for the mandatory deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings and profits, and a tax benefit of $14 million for the conversion to a territorial system. Our actual remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities may vary from the provisional amount because our final analysis will be based on activities through the remainder of the fiscal year. During the remainder of 2018, we will continue to analyze the full effects of the Tax Act on our financial statements. The final impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimate due to, among other things, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, changes in our interpretations and assumptions, finalization of calculations of the impact of the Tax Act on foreign tax provisions and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Act, including the on-going evaluation of our indefinite reinvestment assertions regarding undistributed earnings and profits. Although we currently do not expect to be impacted by the mandatory deemed repatriation provision of the Tax Act, due to the complexity of our international tax and legal entity structure, we will continue to analyze the earnings and profits and tax pools of our foreign subsidiaries to reasonably estimate the effects of the mandatory deemed repatriation provision of the Tax Act over the one-year measurement period. The Tax Act also includes provisions for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI), which imposes taxes on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. These new provisions are effective for us in fiscal year 2019. This income will effectively be taxed at a 10.5% tax rate. Because of the complexity of the new provisions, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles whereby companies are allowed to make an accounting policy election of either (i) accounting for GILTI as a component of income tax expense in the period in which we are subject to the rules (the period cost method), or (ii) accounting for GILTI in our measurement of deferred taxes (the deferred method). Currently, we have not elected a method and will only do so after completing our analysis of the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act. Our election method will depend, in part, on analyzing our global income to determine whether we expect to have future U.S. inclusions in our taxable income related to GILTI and, if so, the impact that is expected. However, at this time, regardless of our election, we do not expect the impact of GILTI to be material to our tax rate or to incur additional cash taxes as result of GILTI. Our provision for income taxes for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $166 million ( 1,497% of income before taxes) and $10 million ( 18% of income before taxes), respectively. Income tax expense for the first quarter of 2018 was almost entirely attributable to the estimated impact of the Tax Act, resulting in a net increase to income tax expense of approximately $162 million . During the first quarter of 2017, we recorded a discrete tax benefit resulting from the merger of two foreign entities, the surviving entity of which was, and continues to be, included in our U.S. federal consolidated tax group. This restructuring allowed us to recognize a U.S. deferred tax asset to reflect the federal deductibility of a foreign uncertain tax position that became recognizable upon the merger of the subsidiaries. 22 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended December 30, 2017 December 31, 2016 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 8,440 $ 53,927 Investing activities (48,391 ) (18,085 ) Financing activities 38,041 (30,242 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 163 1,352 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,747 ) $ 6,952 Key Working Capital Management Measures As of December 30, 2017 September 30, 2017 Days sales outstanding (1) 58 55 Inventory turns (2) 6.1 6.2 Days inventory on hand (3) 59 59 Accounts payable days (4) 71 71 Cash cycle days (5) 46 43 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or "DSO", is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Inventory turns (annualized) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (3) Days inventory on hand is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (4) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or "DPO", is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (5) Cash cycle days is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $405 million at December 30, 2017 and $407 million at September 30, 2017 . Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under credit facilities, repurchases of capital stock and other factors. Our working capital was approximately $1 billion as of December 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities was $8 million and $54 million for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes and stock-based compensation expense and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our shipments to customers and purchases from suppliers, customer and supplier mix, and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 , we generated $46 million of cash primarily from earnings, excluding non-cash items, and consumed $38 million of cash due to an increase in our net operating assets caused primarily by increases in inventory and accounts receivable of $28 million and $11 million , respectively. Inventory increased primarily as a result of customer demand changes, parts shortages and new product ramps. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily 23 due to a late payment from a particular customer that was received early in the second quarter of 2018. DSO increased from 55 days as of September 30, 2017 to 58 days as of December 30, 2017 due to an unfavorable shift in customer payment terms mix from customers with shorter payment terms to customers with longer payment terms and an unfavorable shift in the linearity of product shipments to customers. Net cash used in investing activities was $48 million and $18 million for the three months ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , respectively. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 , we used $49 million of cash for capital expenditures. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we used $22 million of cash for capital expenditures and received proceeds of $4 million primarily from the sale of a certain property. Net cash provided by financing activities was $38 million for three months ended December 30, 2017 , whereas net cash used for financing activities was $30 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016. During the three months ended December 30, 2017 , we used $45 million of cash to repurchase common stock (including $11 million related to employee tax withholdings on vested restricted stock units), borrowed $81 million of cash under the Cash Flow Revolver and received $3 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we used $14 million of cash for repurchases of common stock related to employee tax withholdings on vested restricted stock units, used $25 million of cash for net repayments under the Cash Flow Revolver, paid $2 million in connection with a previous business combination and received $11 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Other Liquidity Matters Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock, subject to a dollar limitation. The timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, purchases of shares will reduce our liquidity. We repurchased 1 million shares of our common stock for $34 million during the three months ended December 30, 2017 and, as of December 30, 2017 , subject to the limitations on stock repurchases contained in our credit agreements, including the indenture governing our senior notes due 2019, an aggregate of $219 million remained available under our stock repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors, none of which is subject to an expiration date. Our $375 million secured revolving credit facility (the "Cash Flow Revolver") requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. Our debt agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. These covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions which the covenants could otherwise restrict, including refinancing our existing debt and repurchasing the maximum amount of shares permitted under our stock repurchase programs authorized by the Board of Directors. In addition, such agreements include covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain casualty insurance. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under our Cash Flow Revolver would not be allowed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. As of December 30, 2017 , we were in compliance with these covenants. On February 1, 2018 , we entered into an amended Cash Flow Revolver (the Amended Cash Flow Revolver) that increased the amount available under the facility to $500 million and extended the term to February 1, 2023 provided our available liquidity is at least equal to the outstanding balance of our senior secured notes due 2019 during the six month period prior to the maturity date of such notes, which is June 1, 2019 . Subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from existing and/or new lenders, we may increase the revolver commitments under the Amended Cash Flow Revolver by up to an additional $200 million and/or add new term loan commitments of up to $375 million. Sanminas and certain subsidiary guarantors obligations under the Amended Cash Flow Revolver are secured by the following property of Sanmina and such guarantors, subject to certain exceptions: accounts receivable and all supporting obligations, chattel paper, documents and instruments in respect thereof or relating thereto; deposit accounts; inventory; equity interests of Sanmina and the guarantors in their direct subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions; intercompany debt at any time owing to Sanmina and the guarantors from a Canadian subsidiary; cash; 24 accessions to, substitutions for, and all replacements, products, and cash and non-cash proceeds of the foregoing; and all books and records pertaining to the foregoing. The Amended Cash Flow Revolver requires us to comply with a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, measured at the end of each fiscal quarter, and at all times a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. The Amended Cash Flow Revolver contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Further, the Amended Cash Flow Revolver contains customary negative covenants limiting the ability of the Sanmina and its subsidiaries, among other things, to incur debt, grant liens, make investments, make acquisitions, make certain restricted payments, repurchase its shares and sell assets, subject to certain exceptions. As of February 1, 2018 , we were in compliance with these covenants. All of our outstanding borrowings under the Cash Flow Revolver as of February 1, 2018 became borrowings under the Amended Cash Flow Revolver as of February 1, 2018. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of December 30, 2017 , we had reserves of $37 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. In January 2018 , we received a notice of intent from a foreign government agency to bring a claim seeking up to $23 million asserting that we had been out of compliance from April 2015 through September 2016 with certain requirements of our exemption from goods and services tax on imported goods. Such claim, if formally made, could seek payment for allegedly unpaid goods and services tax. No formal claim has been brought to date. We believe we have good faith arguments in defense of our actions and have provided these arguments to the government agency. As a result we cannot, at this time, determine the outcome of this matter and have not provided a reserve for this matter as of the end of the first quarter of 2018. In connection with a previously completed acquisition, we could be required to make additional cash payments of a maximum of $14 million if certain annual earnings targets are achieved in the next three years. As of December 30, 2017 , we had a liability of $106 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. Our primary sources of liquidity consisted of (1) cash and cash equivalents of $405 million as of December 30, 2017 ; (2) our Amended Cash Flow Revolver, under which $304 million , net of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, was available as of closing on February 1, 2018 ; (3) foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $71 million , all of which was available as of February 1, 2018 ; and (4) cash generated from operations. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Should demand for our services change significantly over the next 12 months or should we experience increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable, our cash provided by operations could be adversely impacted. As of December 30, 2017 , 52% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with liquidity available under our Amended Cash Flow Revolver and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 30, 2017 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial 25 condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 26