Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed to be forward-looking statements, including any statements regarding trends in future revenue or results of operations, gross margin or operating margin, expenses, earnings or losses from operations, cash flow, synergies or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations and the anticipated benefits of such plans, strategies and objectives; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements regarding the financial impact of customer bankruptcies; any statements regarding the timing of closing of future cash outlays for and benefits of completed, pending or anticipated acquisitions; any statements regarding expected restructuring costs; any statements about the expected results of real property sales; any statements concerning the adequacy of our current liquidity and the availability of additional sources of liquidity; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Generally, the words anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend, may, will, should, estimate, predict, potential, continue and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those contained in Part I, Item 1A of this report. As a result, actual results could vary materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly disclose any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring subsequent to filing this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Overview We are a leading independent global provider of integrated manufacturing solutions, components, products and repair, logistics and after-market services. Our revenue is generated from sales of our services primarily to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the following industries: communications networks; computing and storage; multimedia; industrial and semiconductor capital equipment; defense and aerospace; medical; energy and automotive. In accordance with the accounting rules for segment reporting, our only reportable segment is IMS, which represented approximately 80% of our total revenue in the first quarter of 2016 and in fiscal 2015. Our CPS business consists of multiple operating segments which do not meet the quantitative thresholds for being presented as reportable segments. Therefore, financial information for these operating segments is presented in a single category entitled Components, Products and Services. Our operations are managed as two businesses: 1. Integrated Manufacturing Solutions (IMS). IMS is a reportable segment consisting of printed circuit board assembly and test, final system assembly and test, and direct-order-fulfillment. 2. Components, Products and Services (CPS). Components include interconnect systems (printed circuit board fabrication, backplane and cable assemblies) and mechanical systems (enclosures, precision machining and plastic injection molding). Products include Non-Volatile DIMMs, solid state drives and DRAM solutions from our Viking Technology division, defense and aerospace products from SCI Technology, storage products from our Newisys division and optical and RF (Radio Frequency) modules. Services include design, engineering, logistics and repair services. All references to years, in this section, refer to our fiscal years ending on the last Saturday of each year closest to September 30. Fiscal 2015 was a 53-week year, with the extra week in the fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal 2016 will be a 52-week year. Our strategy is to leverage our comprehensive service offerings, advanced technologies and global capabilities to further penetrate diverse end markets that we believe offer significant growth opportunities and have complex products that require higher value-added services. We believe this strategy differentiates us from our competitors and will help drive more sustainable revenue growth and provide opportunities for us to ultimately achieve operating margins that exceed industry standards. There are many challenges to successfully executing our strategy. For example, we compete with a number of companies in each of our key end markets. These include companies that are much larger than we are and smaller companies 17 that focus on a particular niche. Although we believe we are well-positioned in each of our key end markets and seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, competition remains intense and profitably growing our revenues has been challenging. Additionally, further growing and leveraging our CPS business to improve our operating margins continues to be an integral part of our strategy. However, CPS revenue and gross margin continued to decrease in the first quarter of 2016 relative to the fourth quarter of 2015 and to the first quarter of 2015, illustrating the challenges to our strategy. We believe this business is capable of delivering much better results. We continue to address these challenges on both a short-term and long-term basis. A small number of customers have historically generated a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to our ten largest customers have typically represented approximately 50% of our net sales. No single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales for the three months ended January 2, 2016 or December 27, 2014, respectively. We have typically generated about 80% of our net sales from products manufactured in our foreign operations. The concentration of foreign operations has resulted primarily from a desire on the part of many of our customers to require production in lower cost locations in regions such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Historically, we have had substantial recurring sales to existing customers. We typically enter into supply agreements with our major OEM customers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from three to five years and cover the manufacture of a range of products. Under these agreements, a customer typically agrees to purchase its requirements for specific products in particular geographic areas from us. However, these agreements generally do not obligate the customer to purchase minimum quantities of products which can have the effect of reducing revenue and profitability. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the process used to develop estimates related to product returns, accounts receivable, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, environmental matters, litigation and other contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ materially from these estimates. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 19, 2015. Results of Operations Key Operating Results Three Months Ended January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 (In thousands) Net sales $ 1,534,714 $ 1,671,162 Gross profit $ 123,638 $ 126,346 Operating income $ 54,053 $ 53,480 Net income $ 27,138 $ 22,656 18 Net Sales Sales by end market were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 Increase/(Decrease) Communications Networks $ 604,765 $ 684,908 $ (80,143 ) (11.7 )% Industrial, Medical and Defense 609,804 641,832 (32,028 ) (5.0 )% Embedded Computing and Storage 320,145 344,422 (24,277 ) (7.0 )% Total $ 1,534,714 $ 1,671,162 $ (136,448 ) (8.2 )% Net sales decreased from $1.67 billion in the first quarter of 2015 , to $1.53 billion in the first quarter of 2016 , a decrease of 8.2% . Sales to customers in our communications networks end market decreased 11.7% primarily as a result of decreased demand from certain customer programs for wireless communications products. Sales to customers in our industrial, medical and defense market decreased 5.0% primarily as a result of depressed conditions in the oil and gas industry which have caused customers in this industry to reduce their demand requirements, as well as delayed customer product transitions in the medical market. Sales to customers in our embedded computing and storage end market decreased 7.0% primarily due to delayed product transitions for set-top boxes. Gross Margin Gross margin increased to 8.1% for the first quarter of 2016 , from 7.6% for the first quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily attributable to a charge of $3.9 million in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a distressed customer and improvement in our IMS segment. Distressed customer charges are not allocated to our operating segments. IMS gross margin increased to 7.7% for the first quarter of 2016 from 7.3% for the first quarter of 2015 , primarily as a result of improved operational efficiencies. CPS gross margin decreased to 8.7% for the first quarter of 2016 , from 9.0% for the first quarter of 2015 , primarily as a result of decreased sales, particularly in our mechanical systems division. We expect gross margins to fluctuate based on overall production and shipment volumes and changes in the mix of products demanded by our major customers . Fluctuations in our gross margins may also be caused by a number of other factors , some of which are outside of our control , including: Changes in customer demand and sales volumes for our vertically integrated system components and subassemblies; Changes in the overall volume of our business, which affect the level of capacity utilization; Changes in the mix of high and low margin products demanded by our customers; Parts shortages and operational disruption caused by natural disasters; Greater competition in the EMS industry and pricing pressures from OEMs due to greater focus on cost reduction; Provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, including provisions associated with distressed customers; Level of operational efficiency; Wage inflation and rising materials costs; and Our ability to transition manufacturing and assembly operations to lower cost regions in an efficient manner. Operating Expenses Operating expenses decreased $3.3 million , from $72.9 million , or 4.4% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2015 to $69.6 million , or 4.5% of net sales, in the first quarter of 2016 . This decrease was primarily attributable to lower restructuring and asset impairment charges. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net decreased $1.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due primarily to a loss on extinguishment of debt during the first quarter of 2015. The following table presents the significant components of other expense, net: 19 Three Months Ended January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 (In thousands) Foreign exchange losses $ (829 ) $ 199 Loss on extinguishment of debt (2,913 ) Other, net 611 1,186 Total $ (218 ) $ (1,528 ) On October 8, 2014, we redeemed the remaining $100 million outstanding of our senior notes due 2019 ("2019 Notes") at par plus a redemption premium and accrued interest and recorded a net loss on extinguishment of $2.9 million, consisting of redemption premiums of $5.3 million and a write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of $1.4 million, partially offset by a $3.8 million credit for the fair value hedge adjustment associated with the extinguished 2019 Notes. We reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations through the use of foreign currency hedging instruments; however, our hedges are established based on estimated foreign currency balances. To the extent actual amounts differ from estimated amounts, we will have exposure to currency fluctuations that results in foreign exchange gains or losses. 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended January 2, 2016 December 27, 2014 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 62,660 $ (6,169 ) Investing activities (28,708 ) (27,776 ) Financing activities (48,384 ) (41,523 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 626 10 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (13,806 ) $ (75,458 ) Key Working Capital Management Measures Three Months Ended January 2, 2016 October 3, 2015 Days sales outstanding (1) 55 56 Inventory turns (2) 6.2 6.3 Days inventory on hand (3) 59 58 Accounts payable days (4) 66 69 Cash cycle days (5) 47 45 (1) Days sales outstanding (a measure of how quickly we collect our accounts receivable), or "DSO", is calculated as the ratio of average accounts receivable, net, to average daily net sales for the quarter. (2) Inventory turns (annualized) are calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average inventory. (3) Days inventory on hand is calculated as the ratio of average inventory for the quarter to average daily cost of sales for the quarter. (4) Accounts payable days (a measure of how quickly we pay our suppliers), or "DPO", is calculated as the ratio of 365 days divided by accounts payable turns, in which accounts payable turns is calculated as the ratio of four times our cost of sales for the quarter to average accounts payable. (5) Cash cycle days is calculated as days inventory on hand plus days sales outstanding minus accounts payable days. Cash and cash equivalents were $398.4 million at January 2, 2016 and $412.3 million at October 3, 2015 . Our cash levels vary during any given quarter depending on the timing of collections from customers and payments to suppliers, borrowings under credit facilities, repurchases of capital stock and other factors. Our working capital was approximately $1.0 billion as of January 2, 2016 and $0.9 billion as of October 3, 2015 . Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $62.7 million and $(6.2) million for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 , respectively. Cash flows from operating activities consist of: (1) net income adjusted to exclude non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, etc., and (2) changes in net operating assets, which are comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , we generated $70.6 million of cash from net income, excluding non-cash items, which was partially offset by a $7.9 million usage of cash resulting from an increase in our net operating assets. Net operating assets increased primarily as a result of lower business volume which caused decreases of $24.1 million, $22.5 million and $12.6 million in other accrued liabilities, inventories and accounts payable, respectively. Our DPO decreased from 69 days as of October 3, 2015 to 66 days as of January 2, 2016 due primarily to unfavorable changes in the linearity of our purchases. Our working capital metrics tend to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter based on factors such as the linearity of our 21 shipments and purchases, customer and supplier mix, and the negotiation of payment terms with customers and suppliers. These fluctuations can significantly affect our cash flows from operating activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $28.7 million and $27.8 million for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 , respectively, consisting primarily of capital expenditures in both periods. Net cash used in financing activities was $48.4 million and $41.5 million for the three months ended January 2, 2016 and December 27, 2014 , respectively. During the three months ended January 2, 2016 , we used $28.7 million of cash to repurchase common stock, repaid a net amount of $24.0 million of short-term borrowings and received $4.3 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. During the three months ended December 27, 2014 , we redeemed $100 million of long-term debt for $105.3 million, received $49.8 million of net proceeds from short-term borrowings, received $3.3 million from termination of an interest rate swap and received $10.7 million of net proceeds from issuances of common stock pursuant to stock option exercises. Other Liquidity Matters Our Board of Directors has authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock, subject to a dollar limitation. The timing of repurchases will depend upon capital needs to support the growth of our business, market conditions and other factors. Although stock repurchases are intended to increase stockholder value, purchases of shares will reduce our liquidity. We repurchased $28.7 million of our common stock in the open market during the first quarter of 2016 and, as of January 2, 2016 , we had $175.2 million remaining available to repurchase shares of our common stock under programs authorized by the Board of Directors. Our Cash Flow Revolver requires us to comply with certain financial covenants and our Secured Debt loan agreement contains a financial covenant that is only applicable to us if certain conditions exist, none of which existed as of January 2, 2016 . Additionally, our debt agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. These covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions which the covenants could otherwise restrict, including refinancing our existing debt. In addition, such agreements include covenants requiring, among other things, that we file quarterly and annual financial statements with the SEC, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain casualty insurance. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under our asset-backed revolving credit facility would not be allowed, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business. As of January 2, 2016 , we were in compliance with these covenants. In the ordinary course of business, we are or may become party to legal proceedings, claims and other contingencies, including environmental, warranty and employee matters and examinations by government agencies. As of January 2, 2016 , we had reserves of $51.5 million related to such matters. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of these matters or the amount or timing of cash flows that may be required to defend ourselves or to settle such matters or that these reserves will be sufficient to fully satisfy our contingent liabilities. We completed an acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2015 that could require additional cash payments of $23.5 million if certain annual earnings targets are achieved in the first five years following the date of acquisition. As of January 2, 2016 , we had a liability of $82.0 million for uncertain tax positions. Our estimate of liabilities for uncertain tax positions is based on a number of subjective assessments, including the likelihood of a tax obligation being assessed, the amount of taxes (including interest and penalties) that would ultimately be payable, and our ability to settle any such obligations on favorable terms. Therefore, the amount of future cash flows associated with uncertain tax positions may be significantly higher or lower than our recorded liability and we are unable to reliably estimate when cash settlement may occur. On January 5, 2016, we acquired a privately-held software company for approximately $40.0 million , approximately half of which was paid in the second quarter of 2016 and the other half of which, less an escrow amount, is payable in the third quarter of 2016. Additionally, we expect to complete another acquisition in the second quarter of 2016 that would result in a significant cash outlay in that period. Our liquidity needs are largely dependent on changes in our working capital, including the extension of trade credit by our suppliers, investments in manufacturing inventory, facilities and equipment, repayments of obligations under outstanding indebtedness and repurchases of common stock. Our primary sources of liquidity as of January 2, 2016 included (1) cash and 22 cash equivalents of $398.4 million ; (2) our $375.0 million Cash Flow Revolver, under which $267.1 million , net of outstanding letters of credit, was available as of January 2, 2016 ; (3) foreign short-term borrowing facilities of $74.1 million , all of which was available as of January 2, 2016 ; and (4) cash generated from operations. In addition, we are actively marketing a portfolio of surplus real estate with an aggregate list price of approximately $25 million. Proceeds from the sales of properties in this portfolio will provide additional liquidity. However, there can be no assurance as to the amounts that may actually be raised or the exact timing of any such receipts. We believe our existing cash resources and other sources of liquidity, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Should demand for our services change significantly over the next 12 months or should we experience increases in delinquent or uncollectible accounts receivable, our cash provided by operations could be adversely impacted. As of January 2, 2016 , 53% of our cash balance was held in the United States. Should we choose or need to remit cash to the United States from our foreign locations, we may incur tax obligations which would reduce the amount of cash ultimately available to the United States. We believe that cash held in the United States, together with cash available under our United States credit facility and cash from foreign subsidiaries that could be remitted to the United States without tax consequences, will be sufficient to meet our United States liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 2, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that is material to investors. 23