ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in connection with the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the SEC on July 16, 2024. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements Readers are cautioned that the following discussion contains certain forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing at the beginning of this Quarterly Report. The information contained in this Item 2 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results may materially differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties set forth in this report. Although management believes that the assumptions made and expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that the underlying assumptions will, in fact, prove to be correct or that actual results will not be different from expectations expressed in this report. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to American Clean Resources Group, Inc. and our wholly owned subsidiary, SWIS L.L.C., Aurielle Enterprises Inc. (AE), and AEs wholly owned subsidiaries Tonopah Custom Processing, Inc. (TCP) and Tonopah Resources, Inc. (TR). Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. Corporate History We were incorporated in the State of Colorado on July 10, 1985 and re-domiciled in Nevada in March 2013. In 2011, we closed a series of transactions, whereby we acquired certain assets of Shea Mining & Milling, LLC, which assets include land, buildings, a dormant milling facility, abandoned milling equipment, water permits, mine tailings, mine dumps and the assignment of a note payable, a lease and a contract agreement with permits. We completed the Shea Exchange Agreement in order to offer toll milling services of precious minerals. Toll milling is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as gold, silver, and platinum group metals. Custom milling and refining can include many different processes to extract precious metals from carbon or concentrates. These toll-processing services also distill, dry, mix, or mill chemicals and bulk materials on a contractual basis and provide a chemical production outsourcing option for industrial companies which lack the expertise, capacity, or regulatory permits for in-house production. Overview of the Company We have an office in Lakewood, Colorado and, through a subsidiary, a property in Tonopah, Nevada. Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on the Tonopah property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. Water Pollution Control Permit with Nevada Department of Environmental Protection Through Tonopah Custom Processing, Inc. (TCP), a Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) Application was filed with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) Bureau of Mines and Mining Reclamation (BMMR) for the approval of the permits necessary for a small-scale mineral processing facility planned for the Tonopah property. The permit process is currently on hold, the Company will reactivate such application when it is closer to facilitating mineral processing. The plant will perform laboratory testing, pilot testing, and custom processing of precious metal ores and concentrates from mining industry clients. Processing of ore materials will employ standard mineral processing techniques including gravity concentration, froth flotation and chemical leaching and carbon stripping. 12 The WPCP must be approved prior to commencing the planned construction of our processing plant in Tonopah, Nevada. In connection with our WPCP application, NDEP suggested that we take the following actions: (i) retain a Nevada Certified Environmental Manager (CEM), (ii) perform Meteoric Profile II water testing on ground water directly below the mill as well as surrounding wells located off site, and (iii) determine baseline values of water using the Meteoric Profile II results. NDEP regulations require that the Company delay any new construction planned for metal extraction until after the permits are in place. Advanced Surveying & Professional Services, a Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), completed surveys and testing of the Tonopah property required for the application of our required permits. After completion of the survey, it was determined the property is 1,186 acres. The scope of work the PLS completed includes: (i) setting a total of 19 permanent monuments at angle points along lines, (ii) setting eight permanent monuments locating US Hwy 95, (iii) recording a professional map indicating longitude and latitude for all corners, and (iv) providing a digital map accessible in Auto Cad software. Site Preparation We have completed the initial grading of specific designated areas on the 40 undisturbed acres of land including clearing all vegetation, removing of all scrap metal, and the excavation of the building pad for preparation of our planned new 21,875 square foot processing plant and have completed the removal of all the extra and unnecessary materials and old equipment that has accumulated on the land. We have also refurbished a trailer that will act as our construction office. Business Plan Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on the Tonopah property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. The Company owns tailings located on the Tonopah property and the rights to some tailings located in Manhattan, Nevada. The Company has not disturbed or processed any of this material, but recently authorized GPR to examine the economic feasibility of processing the tailings to reclaim their residual content of valuable metals in exchange for the exclusive right to process the tailings should their economic assessment prove positive. The terms of such processing to be mutually agreed upon between GPR and the Company in the future based on the results of the assessment. Products and Services We plan to establish ourselves as a custom processing and permitted toll milling service provider. Our business plan is to build a facility on our Tonopah property, which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. SWIS On September 13, 2023, the Company executed an agreement to acquire a 100% interest in SWIS, L.L.C. (SWIS). SWIS has developed an algorithm and a smart device that provides essential information to improve water quality from Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO). Recently, we have assigned the patent to the University of Louisville (U of L) with the intent to commercialize the solution on behalf of the university, community, state and country. More importantly, SWIS along with other fellow entrepreneurs and environmental stewards have assembled a team to launch SWIS, with stakeholders from the U of L, Municipal Sewer Districts (MSD), and several state governments. SWIS is actively ready to launch a pilot project to test its modernized approach to CSO Public Notification Programs. Currently, the patented algorithm is on standby for integration into smart plugs that will be used for non-invasive in-home notification. An implementation playbook has been designed for municipal use. SWIS has a management team well versed in the necessary strategies for market penetration and adoption and looks to test its behavior modification program abilities with the University of Louisville. Combined Sewer Systems (CSS) were built over a century ago with the intention to divert wastewater away from households. CSS collect rainwater runoff, domestic sewage, and industrial wastewater into a single pipe system, which then transports the combined wastewater to a treatment plant. When the aged CSS is overwhelmed, the result is untreated wastewater being discharged directly into public waterways, such as creeks, streams, rivers, and other local bodies of water referred to as CSO. The resulting discharges of pollutants into public waterways increases the amount of suspended solids from point-source origins introduced to the ecosystem, creating a significant health hazard for wildlife and humans exposed to these waterways, historically tied to disease transmission. These violate the Clean Water Act and result in significant repercussions from the EPA. Currently, over forty million people in 700+ municipalities nationwide live in a municipality with a CSS. 13 Current solutions rely predominantly on inadequate Public Notification Programs to prevent water use at the source, the household, during high-risk CSO times. The current Public Notification Programs utilized by all municipalities in a CSS entails email signups, website banners, pamphlets, signs, etc., which remains arduous and ineffective. This antiquated, ineffective approach creates the immediate need to develop a modern, real-time notification system that gives individual households and facilities the immediately ability to positively modify their water use behavior resulting in a decrease in harmful point source pollutants unknowingly and unnecessarily being introduced to public waterways. This project would greatly contribute to the universities expanding sustainability program and would put UofL and SWIS in an advanced position to compete to be one of six universities in the US that the EPA will chose as stormwater research hubs. With the completion of a successful Research Project, these stated goals and deliverables would revolutionize a major component of the $1 trillion water infrastructure issue plaguing a growing population and prime the U of L and SWIS for nationwide Public Notification Program adoption. The development of our platform will modernize Public Education and Notification Programs that will significantly reduce the monetary cost and health risk of CSO events for municipalities worldwide. The results to be discovered at the U of L will give SWIS data and information capable of educating citizens of developed cities across the globe and seamlessly integrating newly developed nations. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 Revenues We had no revenues from any operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Furthermore, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue until we have sufficiently funded construction and begin operations. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $128,608 for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to $42,119 for the same period in 2023. The increase for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was principally a result of increased legal expenses, consulting fees and the expenses brought on by SWIS. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, the $42,119 of administrative expenses resulted in the substantial completion of that effort. We anticipate that operating expenses will increase for fiscal 2024 as we continue to move forward with the merger with SMS. Other Income and Expenses We receive monthly lease payments of from American Tower Corporation for a cellular tower located on our Tonopah land. As such Other Income for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $601. Additionally, the gain on derecognition of debt for the three months ended March 31, 2023 of $57,572 was not reproduced in the current period. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was $77,896, compared to $212,909 for the same period in 2023. The decrease in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 is due to the conversion of debt owed to GPR to common stock during the year ended December 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of an entitys ability to secure enough cash to meet its contractual and operating needs as they arise. We have funded our operations and satisfied our capital requirements through increases in convertible debt pursuant to our LOC during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. We do not anticipate generating sufficient net positive cash flows from our operations to fund the next twelve months. We had a working capital deficit of $3,429,901 at March 31, 2024. Cash was $9,311 at March 31, 2024, as compared to cash of $36,254 at December 31, 2023. Our cash reserves will not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and thus, we need to raise additional capital to pay for our operational expenses and provide for capital expenditures. Our basic operational expenses are currently estimated at approximately $49,000 per month. Above the basic operational expenses, we estimate that we need approximately $10,000,000 to begin limited toll milling operations. If we are not able to raise additional working capital, we may have to cease operations altogether. 14 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $(26,943) and $(593) for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cash was provided by operating activities during both periods primarily due to payments advanced under the LOC for operating expenses offset by net increases in accrued liabilities. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $0 . Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities was $0. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities was also $0. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of the SECs Regulation S-K. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our business, revenues or operating results during the periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of Long-lived Assets We review our property and mining and mineral rights subject to amortization and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset class may not be recoverable. Indicators of potential impairment include: an adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; an adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is used or is expected to be used, or in its physical condition; and current or forecasted operating or cash flow losses that demonstrate continuing losses associated with the use of the asset. If indicators of impairment are present, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. If the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, then the asset is considered to be impaired and its carrying value is written down to fair value, based on the related estimated discounted cash flows. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we combined the carrying value of our mining and mineral assets as they are inseparable and depend upon each other in value creation. See Note 3. There were no impairment charges in the three months ended March 31, 2024. 15 Recent Accounting Standards During the year ended December 31, 2023, and the three months ended March 31, 2024 and through the date of this filing, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.