Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview We are transforming the way therapeutics and materials are discovered. Our differentiated, physics-based software platform enables discovery of high-quality, novel molecules for drug development and materials applications more rapidly, at lower cost, and with, we believe, a higher likelihood of success compared to traditional methods. Our software is used by biopharmaceutical and industrial companies, academic institutions, and government laboratories around the world, and we are the leading provider of computational software solutions for drug discovery. We also apply our computational platform to a broad pipeline of drug discovery programs in collaboration with biopharmaceutical companies, some of which we co-founded. In addition, we are using our platform to advance a pipeline of internal, wholly-owned drug discovery programs. Since our founding, we have been primarily focused on developing our computational platform, which is capable of predicting critical properties of molecules with a high degree of accuracy. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to introducing new capabilities and refining our software, conducting research and development activities, recruiting skilled personnel, and providing general and administrative support for these operations. We are using our computational platform in both collaborative and wholly-owned drug discovery programs. Over the last decade, we have entered into a number of collaborations with biopharmaceutical companies that have provided us with significant income and have the potential to produce additional milestone payments, option fees, and future royalties. Furthermore, since mid-2018, we have launched five internal, wholly-owned programs. We generate revenues from sales of our software solutions and from research funding and milestone payments from our drug discovery collaborations, which we have used to support our research and development and other operating expenses. In addition, since inception we have raised gross proceeds of $192.6 million from sales of our convertible preferred stock as well as amounts received from our equity investment in Nimbus Therapeutics, LLC, or Nimbus, which we co-founded in 2009. In late 2018 and early 2019, we issued and sold an aggregate of 73,795,777 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock at $1.4906 per share, for $110.0 million in gross proceeds. In 2016, Nimbus sold its Acetyl-CoA carboxylase, or ACC, inhibitor, firsocostat, to Gilead Sciences, Inc., or Gilead Sciences, in a transaction valued at approximately $1.2 billion, comprised of an upfront payment and earn outs that are tied to the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones. Of this amount, $601.3 million has been paid to Nimbus to date, and we received a total of $46.0 million in cash distributions in 2016 and 2017. We are eligible to receive up to $46 million in future cash distributions on the remaining approximately $600 million of earn outs, if and when such earn outs are achieved. However, the likelihood and timing of such payments, if any, are not possible for us to predict as the achievement of the development and regulatory milestones under the transaction agreement is uncertain and outside of our control. In December 2019, Gilead Sciences announced topline results from its Phase 2 clinical trial, which included firsocostat, both as a monotherapy and in combination with other investigational therapies, in which the primary endpoint was not met. Gilead Sciences announced that it was continuing to analyze the data from the trial and determine next steps. We do not know how this development will affect Nimbus right to receive future earnout payments from Gilead Sciences or our right to receive cash distributions from Nimbus. However, if Gilead Sciences determined not to continue to advance the development of firsocostat, then we would not expect to receive any additional distributions from Nimbus on account of this program. Additionally, even if Nimbus were to receive any further earnout payments from Gilead Sciences, any distribution to us as an investor in Nimbus would need to be approved by the board of directors of Nimbus. On February 10, 2020, we closed our initial public offering of our common stock, in which we sold 13,664,704 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $17.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of $209.6 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses borne by us. We currently conduct our operations through two reportable segments: software and drug discovery. The software segment is focused on selling our software to transform drug discovery across the life sciences industry, as well as to customers in materials science industries. The drug discovery segment is focused on generating revenue from a diverse portfolio of preclinical and clinical programs, internally and through collaborations that have advanced to various stages of discovery and development. 22 Our software segment generates revenue from software product licenses, hosted software subscriptions, software maintenance, and professional services. The revenue we generate through our software solutions from each of our customers varies largely depending on the number of software licenses our customers purchase from us. The licenses that our customers purchase from us provide them the ability to perform a certain number of calculations used in the design of molecules for drug discovery or materials science. We deliver our software through either (i) a product license that permits our customers to install the software solution directly on their own in-house hardware and use i t for a specified term, or (ii) a subscription that allows our customers to access the cloud-based software solution for a specified term. We currently generate drug discovery revenue from our collaborations, including research funding payments and discovery and development milestones. In the future, we may also derive drug discovery revenue from our collaborations from option fees, the achievement of commercial milestones, and royalties on commercial drug sales. In addition to revenue from our collaborations, in the future we may also derive drug discovery revenue from out-licensing our internal drug discovery programs when we believe it will help maximize the commercial potential of the program. We generated revenue of $26.2 million and $20.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 26%. Our net loss attributable to Schrdinger common stockholders and limited common stockholders was $13.8 million and $5.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic In December 2019, a disease referred to as COVID-19 was reported and has spread to many countries worldwide, including the United States. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a pandemic, and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, state, local, federal, and foreign governments have put in place, and others in the future may put in place, quarantines, executive orders, shelter-in-place orders, and similar government orders and restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. We have implemented a work-from-home policy for all of our employees, and we may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or which we determine are in our best interests. While during the first quarter we did not see material impacts to our business from the crisis, certain market risks are beginning to emerge that could affect our software growth and the timing of our drug discovery revenues for the remainder of 2020. With respect to our software business, some of our customers may experience increasing budget pressures as a result of downturns or uncertainty in their respective businesses, which may cause them to delay or reduce purchases. In addition, due to the restrictions related to COVID-19, our sales force has limited in-person interactions, and their ability to attend events that promote and expand knowledge of our company and platform, including industry conferences and events has been hampered. Relative to our drug discovery programs, the crisis could delay the progress of certain programs, particularly ones that are in clinical studies or preparing to enter clinical studies. Delays in these programs could result in delays achieving milestones and related revenue. We view these risks as temporary, and we believe we have the financial resources to manage effectively during this time. We do not envision a long-term impact on our ability to execute on our strategy. Management is actively monitoring this situation and the possible effects on our financial condition, liquidity, operations, customers, contractors, and workforce. For additional information on risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, please see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors A widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could negatively affect various aspects of our business and make it more difficult to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers as well as delays in our drug discovery and development programs, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Components of Results of Operations Software Products and Services Revenue Our software business generates revenue from four sources: (i) on-premise software license fees, (ii) hosted software subscription fees, (iii) software maintenance fees, and (iv) professional services fees. On-premise software. Our on-premise software license arrangements grant customers the right to use our software on their own in-house servers for a specified term, typically for one year. We recognize revenue for on-premise software license fees upfront, either upon delivery of the license or the effective date of the agreement, whichever is later 23 Hosted software. Hosted software revenue consists primarily of fees to provide our customers with access to our hosted software platform and is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, which is typ ically one year. When a customer enters into a hosted arrangement for which revenue is recognized over time, the amount paid upfront that is not recognized in the current period is included in deferred revenue in our statement of financial position until t he period in which it is recognized. Software maintenance. Software maintenance includes technical support, updates, and upgrades related to our on-premise software licenses. Software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Software maintenance activities are performed in connection with the use of our on-premise software, and may fluctuate from period to period. Professional services. Professional services, such as technical setup or installation or modeling services, where we use our software to perform tasks such as virtual screening and homology modeling on behalf of our customers, generally are not related to the functionality of our software and are recognized as revenue when resources are consumed. Since each professional services agreement represents a unique, ad hoc engagement, professional services revenue may fluctuate from period to period. Drug Discovery Revenue We currently generate drug discovery revenue from discovery collaboration arrangements, including research funding payments and discovery and development milestones. We expect our drug discovery revenue to trend higher over time as these collaboration arrangements advance and we receive additional revenue from research funding payments, the achievement of discovery, development, and commercial milestones, option fees, and royalties on commercial drug sales. The majority of our current collaborations are in the discovery stage. Milestone payments typically increase in magnitude as a program advances. In addition to revenue from our collaborations, in the future we may also derive drug discovery revenue from out-licensing our internal drug discovery programs when we believe it will help maximize the commercial potential of the program. However, we expect that our revenue will fluctuate from period to period due to the inherently uncertain nature of the timing of milestone achievement and our dependence on the program decisions of our collaborators. Cost of Revenues Software products and services. Cost of revenues for software includes personnel-related expenses (comprised of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation) for employees directly involved in the delivery of software solutions, maintenance and professional services, royalties paid for products sold and services performed using third-party licensed software functionality, and allocated overhead (facilities and information technology support) costs. Pursuant to various third-party arrangements, we license technology that is used in our software. These arrangements require us to pay royalties based on sales volume. Drug discovery. Costs of revenue for drug discovery includes personnel-related expenses and costs of third-party contract research organizations, or CROs, that support discovery activities in our collaborations, royalties paid for services performed using third-party licensed software functionality, and allocated compute capacity and overhead costs. Currently, we have only one collaboration that involves payment of CRO costs. While we have incurred costs associated with discovery efforts for this collaboration since late 2017, we have recognized and expect to continue to recognize revenues in the future if and when milestones are achieved. Generally, drug discovery costs of revenue for collaborations are incurred in advance of the revenue milestone achievement. We expect our drug discovery costs of revenue to trend higher over time as our discovery collaborations advance. Personnel-related expenses for our internal discovery programs are classified within research and development expense. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenues. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our software products and services gross margin may fluctuate from period to period as our revenue fluctuates, and as a result of changes in sales mix between on-premise and hosted software solutions. For example, the cost of royalties due for sales of our hosted software arrangements are recognized upfront, whereas the associated revenue is recognized over the term of the underlying agreement. Currently, gross margin is not meaningful for measuring the operating results of our drug discovery business. 24 Research and Development Expense Research and development expense accounts for a significant portion of our operating expenses. We recognize research and development expense as incurred. Research and development expense consist of internal drug discovery program costs and costs incurred for continuous development of the technology and science that supports our computational platform, primarily: personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in research and development functions; expenses incurred under agreements with third-party CROs and consultants involved in our internal discovery programs; and allocated compute capacity and overhead (facilities and information technology support) costs. We expect our research and development expense to increase substantially in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in activities related to discovery and development of our internal target candidates, in advancing our platform, and as we incur expenses associated with hiring additional personnel directly involved in such efforts. At this time, we do not know, nor can we reasonably estimate, the nature, timing, or costs of the efforts that will be necessary to complete the development of any of our internal drug discovery programs. Since our internal drug discovery efforts are at a very early stage, currently we do not track research and development expense on a program-by-program basis. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales and marketing staff and application scientists supporting our sales efforts, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Other sales and marketing costs include promotional events that promote and expand knowledge of our company and platform, including industry conferences and events and our annual user group meetings in the United States and Europe, advertising, and allocated overhead costs. Most operating costs of our sales offices in Europe and Japan are included in sales and marketing expense. Due to the inherent scientific complexity of our software solutions, a high level of scientific expertise is needed to support our sales and marketing efforts. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing over the foreseeable future to foster the growth of our business as we aim to expand software sales to existing customers and increase our customer base. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of personnel-related expenses associated with our executive, legal, finance, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense also includes professional fees for external legal, accounting and other consulting services, allocated overhead costs, and other general operating expenses. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative staff to support the anticipated growth of our business. We expect to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a U.S. securities exchange and costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In addition, as a public company, we expect to incur increased expenses such as insurance and professional services. As a result, we expect the dollar amount of our general and administrative expense to increase for the foreseeable future. Gain on Equity Investments Gain on equity investments consists of realized gains in the form of cash distributions received from our equity investments. Change in Fair Value Fair value gains and losses consist of adjustments to the fair values of our equity investments, including Nimbus and Morphic Holding, Inc., or Morphic. In June 2019, Morphic became a publicly traded company and, as such, fair value is determined as the current market value of Morphic common stock as of the reporting date. We remeasure our holding in Morphic at each period end. Prior to Morphics initial public offering, fair value changes for our Morphic investment were determined under the hypothetical liquidation book value, or HLBV, method. For further information regarding the HLBV method, see Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and EstimatesValuation of Equity Investments in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. We expect that fair value gains and losses may fluctuate significantly in future periods. 25 Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash equivalents and marketable securities. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax expense (benefit) consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Results of Operations Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes our unaudited results of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Revenues: Software products and services $ 23,812 $ 18,605 $ 5,207 28% Drug discovery 2,362 2,136 226 11% Total revenues 26,174 20,741 5,433 26% Cost of revenues: Software products and services 4,001 3,133 868 28% Drug discovery 6,548 4,604 1,944 42% Total cost of revenues 10,549 7,737 2,812 36% Gross profit 15,625 13,004 2,621 20% Operating expenses: Research and development 13,700 8,438 5,262 62% Sales and marketing 4,789 5,093 (304 ) -6% General and administrative 8,936 5,086 3,850 76% Total operating expenses 27,425 18,617 8,808 47% Loss from operations (11,800 ) (5,613 ) (6,187 ) 110% Other (expense) income: Change in fair value (3,079 ) (627 ) (2,452 ) Interest income 699 438 261 Total other (expense) income (2,380 ) (189 ) (2,191 ) Loss before income taxes (14,180 ) (5,802 ) (8,378 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 91 46 45 Net loss (14,271 ) (5,848 ) (8,423 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (445 ) (54 ) (391 ) Net loss attributable to Schrdinger stockholders $ (13,826 ) $ (5,794 ) $ (8,032 ) 26 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Revenues: On-premise software $ 15,600 $ 13,023 $ 2,577 20% Hosted software 2,133 1,711 422 25% Software maintenance 3,537 2,589 948 37% Professional services 2,542 1,282 1,260 98% Total software products and services 23,812 18,605 5,207 28% Drug discovery 2,362 2,136 226 11% Total revenues $ 26,174 $ 20,741 $ 5,433 26% On-premise software. The increase in revenues for on-premise software was primarily attributable to the timing of revenue for multi-year deals, as well as increased sales from existing customers during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, and new customers during the period. Hosted software. The increase in revenues for hosted software was due to increased sales from existing customers, as well as new customers purchasing hosted software subscriptions in the second half on 2019, for which revenue is recognized over time. Software maintenance. The increase in revenues for software maintenance was primarily due to growing product sales in the second half of 2019, for which revenue is recognized over time. Professional services. The increase in revenues from professional services was primarily due to higher modeling services fees and revenue from technology services for several substantial projects that began in the fourth quarter of 2019. Drug discovery. The increase in revenues for drug discovery was primarily due to the timing and amount of collaboration milestones achieved during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019. Cost of Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Cost of revenues: Software products and services $ 4,001 $ 3,133 $ 868 28% Gross margin 83 % 83 % Drug discovery 6,548 4,604 1,944 42% Software products and services. The increase in cost of revenues for software products and services during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was attributable to increases of $0.4 million in personnel-related expenses and $0.4 million in royalty expenses. Drug discovery. The increase in cost of revenues for drug discovery during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was attributable to increases of $1.1 million in personnel-related expenses, $0.4 million in compute capacity costs, and $0.5 million in other costs of revenue. Research and Development Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Research and development $ 13,700 $ 8,438 $ 5,262 62% 27 The increase in research and development expense during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was due to an additional approximately $1.8 million increase in CRO costs associated with the expansion and progression of internal dru g discovery programs , an approximately $2.3 million increase in personal related costs, an approximately $0.4 million increase in cloud computing expense, and $0.8 million of other costs. Sales and Marketing Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 4,789 $ 5,093 $ (304 ) -6% The decrease in sales and marketing expense during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to a decrease in personnel-related expenses. General and Administrative Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands) General and administrative $ 8,936 $ 5,086 $ 3,850 76% The increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to an increase of $2.0 million in personnel-related expenses due to additional employee headcount and an increase of $1.9 million in other expenses, primarily reflecting costs necessary to build a public company infrastructure. Change in Fair Value Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Change in fair value $ (3,079 ) $ (627 ) $ (2,452 ) The loss in fair value during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was due to a $2.1 million loss on our equity investment in Morphic and a $1.0 million loss on our equity investment in Nimbus. Morphic became a publicly traded company in June 2019 and, as such, we revalued our investment as of March 31, 2020 to equal the current fair market value of Morphics common stock. The Nimbus fair value loss was determined under the HLBV method. The loss in fair value during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was due to a $0.6 million loss on our equity investment in Nimbus. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Interest income $ 699 $ 438 $ 261 The increase in interest income during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was attributable to increased earnings on our investment portfolio balance, which increased significantly year-over-year due to the investment of proceeds from our initial public offering of our common stock. 28 Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Income tax expense $ 91 $ 46 $ 45 Due to the full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, income tax expense represents our income tax obligations in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Detailed information about our critical accounting policies and estimates is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. There have been no significant changes to these policies during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically we have incurred substantial operating losses and expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. As of March 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $118.9 million. Our operating cash flows are impacted by the magnitude and timing of our software sales and, to a lesser degree, by the magnitude and timing of our drug discovery milestone achievements and research funding fees. Our primary use of cash is to fund operating expenses, which consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenditures. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when we pay operating expenses to vendors and collect amounts due from customers and collaborators, which is reflected in changes in our operating assets and liabilities, including accounts payable, accrued expenses, prepaid expenses, deferred revenue, and accounts receivable. We generate revenues from sales of our software solutions and from research funding and milestone payments from our drug discovery collaborations, which we have used to support our research and development and other operating expenses. Since inception, we have also financed our operations from sales of our convertible preferred stock, as well as amounts received from our equity investment in Nimbus, which we co-founded in 2009, and the net proceeds of our initial public offering in February 2020. In late 2018 and early 2019, we issued and sold an aggregate of 73,795,777 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock at $1.4906 per share, for $110.0 million in gross proceeds. In 2016, Nimbus sold its ACC inhibitor to Gilead Sciences in a transaction valued at approximately $1.2 billion, comprised of an upfront payment and earn outs. Of this amount, $601.3 million has been paid to Nimbus to date, and we have received a total of $46.0 million in cash distributions to date. We are eligible to receive future cash distributions on the remaining approximately $600 million of earn outs, if and when such earn outs are achieved. However, the likelihood and timing of such payments, if any, are not possible for us to predict as the achievement of the development and regulatory milestones under the transaction agreement is uncertain and outside of our control. In December 2019, Gilead Sciences announced topline results from its Phase 2 clinical trial, which included firsocostat, both as a monotherapy and in combination with other investigational therapies, in which the primary endpoint was not met. Gilead Sciences announced that it was continuing to analyze the data from the trial and determine next steps. We do not know how this development will affect Nimbus right to receive future earnout payments from Gilead Sciences or our right to receive cash distributions from Nimbus. However, if Gilead Sciences determined not to continue to advance the development of firsocostat, then we would not expect to receive any additional distributions from Nimbus on account of this program. Additionally, even if Nimbus were to receive any further payments from Gilead Sciences, any distribution to us as an investor in Nimbus would need to be approved by the board of directors of Nimbus. On February 10, 2020, we closed our initial public offering of our common stock, in which we sold 13,664,704 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $17.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds of $209.6 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses borne by us. As of March 31, 2020, we had cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities of $288.8 million. Cash in excess of immediate requirements is invested in accordance with our investment policy, primarily with a view towards capital preservation and liquidity. 29 Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the periods shown: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,778 ) $ (4,623 ) Net cash used in investing activities (87,913 ) (16,077 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 212,454 5,166 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 118,763 $ (15,534 ) Operating activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020, operating activities used approximately $5.8 million of cash, primarily resulting from net loss of $13.8 million, partially offset by $3.2 million of non-cash operating expenses included in net loss, including depreciation and stock-based compensation costs, and a $3.6 million non-cash loss from changes in fair value. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities provided cash of approximately $1.9 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, operating activities used approximately $4.6 million of cash, primarily resulting from net loss of $5.8 million, partially offset by $1.4 million of non-cash operating expenses included in net loss, including depreciation and stock-based compensation costs, and a $0.6 million non-cash loss from changes in fair value. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities provided cash of approximately $0.8 million. Investing activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020, investing activities used approximately $87.9 million of cash, consisting of $84.2 million used for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, $2.9 million used for the purchase of additional shares of Nimbus, and $0.8 million used for purchases of property and equipment During the three months ended March 31, 2019, investing activities used approximately $16.1 million of cash, consisting of $15.0 million used for purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, and $1.1 million used for purchases of property and equipment. Financing activities During the three months ended March 31, 2020, financing activities provided approximately $212.5 million of cash, primarily attributable to proceeds from our initial public offering of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, financing activities provided approximately $5.2 million of cash, primarily attributable to proceeds from issuances of our Series E preferred stock. Funding Requirements We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the growth of our software revenue, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the continued expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and receipt of milestone payments from our collaborations, as well as spending to support, advance, and broaden our internal programs. Furthermore, our capital requirements will also change depending on the timing and receipt of any distributions we may receive from our equity stakes in our co-founded companies. The potential for these distributions, and the amounts which we may be entitled to receive, are difficult to predict due to the inherent uncertainty of the events, which may trigger such distributions. In addition, with respect to our internal wholly-owned programs, as part of our strategy we may choose to pursue licensing arrangements when we believe it will help maximize the commercial value of any such program. If we are able to successfully enter into any licensing arrangements in the future, the potential amounts we may be entitled to and the likelihood and timing of such payments, including at what stage of discovery or development we may choose to pursue such arrangements, is uncertain. 30 We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to maintain or expand our operations and invest in our platform, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operations and financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2020: Total Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 15,691 $ 5,961 $ 6,694 $ 2,995 $ 41 (1) Operating lease obligations consist of our continuing rent obligations through January 2029, primarily for our principal offices located in New York, New York and Portland, Oregon, which expire in August 2021 and August 2026, respectively. In November 2019, we entered into a three-year agreement with a third-party cloud provider for compute power. The agreement contains a minimum payment obligation, which totals $18 million over the three years after the date we entered into the agreement. These amounts are not included in the table above because there is not an annual commitment. We enter into agreements in the normal course of business with CRO vendors for research and preclinical studies, professional consultants for expert advice, and other vendors for various products and services. We have not included these payments in the table of contractual obligations above since the contracts do not contain any minimum purchase commitments and are cancelable at any time by us, generally upon 30 days prior written notice, and therefore we believe that our non-cancelable obligations under these agreements are not material. We have also agreed to pay volume-based royalties to third parties for use of software functionality under various licensing and related agreements. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Status We are an emerging growth company, or EGC, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We may remain an EGC until December 31, 2025, although if we become a large accelerated filer or if we have annual gross revenues of $1.07 billion or more in any fiscal year, we would cease to be an EGC as of December 31 of the applicable year. We also would cease to be an EGC if we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. For so long as we remain an EGC, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not EGCs. These exemptions include: not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting; not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 31 We are also a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We would cease to be a smaller reporting company if we have a public float in excess of $250 million or have annual revenues in excess of $100 million and a public float in excess of $700 million, determined on an annual ba sis. Simi lar to EGCs , smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations, such as an exemption from providing selected financial data and an ability to provide simplified executive compensation information and only two years of aud ited financi al statement in an annual report on Form 10-K , with correspondingly reduced Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations disclosure. In addition, the JOBS Act permits an EGC to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we may adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard and may do so until such time that we either irrevocably elect to opt out of such extended transition period or no longer qualify as an EGC.