ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in connection with the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC on May 2, 2016. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements Readers are cautioned that the following discussion contains certain forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing at the beginning of this Quarterly Report. The information contained in this Item 2 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results may materially differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties set forth in this report. Although management believes that the assumptions made and expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that the underlying assumptions will, in fact, prove to be correct or that actual results will not be different from expectations expressed in this report. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to Standard Metals Processing, Inc. (formerly known as Standard Gold Holdings, Inc., Standard Gold, Inc. and Princeton Acquisitions, Inc.) and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tonopah Milling and Metals Group, Inc. (TMMG), and TMMGs wholly owned subsidiaries Tonopah Custom Processing, Inc. (TCP) and Tonopah Resources, Inc. Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. Corporate History We were incorporated in the State of Colorado on July 10, 1985. On September 29, 2009, we completed a share exchange agreement with Hunter Bates Mining Corporation, a Minnesota corporation (Hunter Bates) and certain of its shareholders, in which Hunter Bates shareholders exchanged all of their capital securities into similar capital securities of ours (the Hunter Bates Share Exchange) and we adopted the business model of Hunter Bates of minerals exploration and mining. Accordingly, the Hunter Bates Share Exchange represented a change in control and Hunter Bates became our wholly owned subsidiary. Prior to September 29, 2009, Wits Basin Precious Minerals Inc., a Minnesota corporation and public reporting company quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol WITM (Wits Basin) was the majority shareholder of Hunter Bates. Hunter Bates was formed in April 2008 to acquire the prior producing gold mine properties (consisting of land, buildings, equipment, mining claims and permits) located in Central City, Colorado, known as the Bates-Hunter Mine. On March 15, 2011, we closed a series of transactions, whereby we acquired certain assets of Shea Mining & Milling, LLC (Shea Mining), which assets include land, buildings, a dormant milling facility, abandoned milling equipment, water permits, mine tailings, mine dumps and the assignment of a note payable, a lease and a contract agreement with permits. We completed the Shea Exchange Agreement in order to offer toll milling services of precious minerals. Toll milling is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as gold, silver, and platinum group metals. Custom milling and refining can include many different processes to extract precious metals from carbon or concentrates. These toll-processing services also distill, dry, mix, or mill chemicals and bulk materials on a contractual basis and provide a chemical production outsourcing option for industrial companies which lack the expertise, capacity, or regulatory permits for in-house production. The Company re-domiciled in Nevada from Colorado in March 2013. We determined that, due to a lack of connection to Colorado, it was in the best interest of the Company to move its domicile to Nevada. 18 Overview of the Company We have offices in Gadsden, Alabama and, through TCP, a property in Tonopah, Nevada. Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on our TCP property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallugircal plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. Water Pollution Control Permit with Nevada Department of Environmental Protection Through TCP, the wholly owned subsidiary of TMMG, a Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) Application was filed with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) Bureau of Mines and Mining Reclamation (BMMR) for the approval of the permits necessary for a small-scale mineral processing facility planned for the Tonopah property. The plant will perform laboratory testing, pilot testing, and custom processing of precious metal ores and concentrates from mining industry clients. Processing of ore materials will employ standard mineral processing techniques including gravity concentration, froth flotation and chemical leaching and carbon stripping. The WPCP must be approved prior to commencing the planned construction of our processing plant in Tonopah, Nevada. We are still in the technical review stage of our WPCP. While the Company awaits approval, we are preparing for construction of our processing facility which includes working with contractors that will be building the new 21,875 square foot processing plant, cleaning and preparing the property, and refurbishing a trailer that will act as our construction office. In connection with our WPCP application, NDEP suggested that we take the following actions: (i) retain a Nevada Certified Environmental Manager (CEM), (ii) perform Meteoric Profile II water testing on ground water directly below the mill as well as surrounding wells located off site, and (iii) determine baseline values of water using the Meteoric Profile II results. NDEP regulations require that the Company delay any new construction planned for metal extraction until after the permits are in place. We hired Allstate-Nevada Environmental Management, Inc., as our CEM to assist us with obtaining an NDEP WPCP and to help us fulfill all the requirements of NDEP including the Meteoric Profile II analysis, as well as advise on the overall site cleanup and assisting with any other NDEP requirements. Survey In March 2013, Advanced Surveying & Professional Services, as our Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), completed surveys and testing of the Tonopah property required for the application of our required permits. After completion of the survey, it was determined the property is 1,183 acres. The scope of work our PLS completed includes: (i) setting a total of 19 permanent monuments at angle points along lines, (ii) setting eight permanent monuments locating US Hwy 95, (iii) recording a professional map indicating longitude and latitude for all corners, and (iv) providing a digital map accessible in AutoCad software. Site Preparation We have completed the initial grading of specific designated areas on the 40 undisturbed acres of land including clearing all vegetation, removing of all scrap metal, and the excavation of the building pad for the preparation of the new 21,875 square foot processing plant and have completed the removal of all the extra and unnecessary materials and old equipment that has accumulated on the land. Recent Actions We are working on general maintenance and updating of the Tonopah property in line with our business plan. 19 Products and Services We seek to establish ourselves as a custom processing and permitted toll milling service provider. Our business plan is to build a facility on our Tonopah property, which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. The Companys intention is to become a full service permitted custom toll milling and processing company that facilitates the extraction of precious and strategic minerals from mined material. The Company is in the process of obtaining the permits needed for construction and operation of our permitted custom processing toll milling facility with state of the art equipment capable of processing gold, silver and platinum metal groups. Many junior miners do not have the capital or the ability to permit a processing facility, yet they have a large supply of mined material that requires milling be performed. It is often cost prohibitive or impractical for these mine operators to send their materials to processing mills owned by the large mining companies, or to other customers with badly needed milling and processing services. While Nevada has a historic role as a mining center with good proximate geology and ample mined product, very little custom processing toll milling capacity remains in the state. During the last several decades, other processing facilities have been shuttered due to high costs of regulations and the vertical integration of milling within large mining companies leaving junior miners with few options for local milling services. As a result, we are in a unique position among processing facilities because we are capable of true permitted custom processing. We have the only ball mill located within a custom toll milling facility within 300 miles allowing us to serve miners in the western United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America. Many junior miners are undercapitalized, have limited access to capital markets and have a large supply of mined material that requires milling be performed. Many large mining companies reserve their milling capacity for their inventory, which does not make providing third party services worthwhile. This provides the Company with an opportunity to provide these potential customers with badly needed milling and processing services. Some of our mining customers will be able to take their tailings (the material left over after the desired minerals have been extracted) from the material they deposited with the Company and put it back in the exact same mines those particular tailings came from. This eliminates the need for the Company to dispose of those tailings. Currently, the Company is waiting for the permits required for us to commence construction of a facility to conduct permitted custom processing toll milling operations. Results of Operation Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 to the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Revenues We had no revenues from any operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. Furthermore, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue until we have sufficiently funded construction and begin operations. 20 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $52,607 for the three months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to $59,502 for the same period in 2016. General and administrative expenses were $205,126 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to $276,161 for the same period in 2016. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, the majority of general and administrative expense was for accrued compensation and professional fees. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the majority of expenses were relatively the same, with legal fees and insurance decreased in the current period as compared to the corresponding period in 2016. We anticipate that future compensation expenses will increase and that certain operating expenses will increase for fiscal 2017 as we continue to build the infrastructure to proceed with permitted custom processing toll milling services. Other Income and Expenses We receive monthly payments of from $608 per month from American Tower Corporation for a cellular tower located on our Tonopah land. Interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $63,108, compared to $62,267 for the respective period in 2016. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $173,637, compared to $210,471 for the respective period in 2016. The 2017 and 2016 amounts relate primarily to the interest due at rates ranging from 6% to 8% on our notes payable: (i) the $2,500,000 secured, convertible promissory note issued to an accredited investor, (ii) the convertible notes payable; and (iii) the note with Tina Gregerson Family Properties, LLC, an entity controlled by a former director and officer of the Company. Of the convertible notes outstanding at September 30, 2016, $160,000 was converted in July 2016, accounting for the decrease in interest expense in 2017 as compared to 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of an entitys ability to secure enough cash to meet its contractual and operating needs as they arise. We have funded our operations and satisfied our capital requirements through the issuance of short-term debt, convertible debt and through equity capital we have received via certain shareholders exercising their warrants and loans from related parties during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016. We do not anticipate generating sufficient net positive cash flows from our operations to fund the next twelve months. We had a working capital deficit of approximately $9,609,000 at September 30, 2017. Cash and cash equivalents were $4,937 at September 30, 2017, as compared to cash and cash equivalents of $1,035 at September 30, 2016. Our cash reserves will not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and thus, we need to raise additional capital to pay for our operational expenses and provide for capital expenditures. Our basic operational expenses are currently estimated at approximately $25,000 per month. Above the basic operational expenses, we estimate that we need approximately $17,500,000 to begin limited toll milling operations. If we are not able to raise additional working capital, we may have to cease operations altogether. Recent Financings On February 15, 2017 and March 1, 2017, the Company issued convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $60,000. The notes are due one year after issuance, accrue interest at 6% per annum and are convertible into shares of common stock at a price of $0.02 per share. The Company then analyzed the conversion under ASC 470-20 Debt with conversion and other options for consideration of a beneficial conversion feature. The Company recorded a discount for the intrinsic value of the conversion feature of $60,000, to be amortized over the term of the note. On March 14, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $60,000, and on April 18, 2017, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of issuance. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.075 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20 and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was no beneficial conversion feature to recognize. 21 On June 22, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $10,000, and on January 24, 2018, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The convertible promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of funding. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.065 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, Debt with conversion and other options , and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $4,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On August 22, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $10,000, and on February 7, 2018, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The convertible promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of funding. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.08 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20 and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $4,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On October 17, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $10,000, and on January 24, 2018, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The convertible promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of funding, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $6,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On December 26, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $5,000, and on January 24, 2018, the Company issued a convertible promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The convertible promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of funding. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.025 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $3,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On December 29, 2017, the Company received cash proceeds of $4,796, and on January 24, 2018, the Company issued a promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of funding. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.025 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $3,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On January 22, 2018, the Company received cash proceeds of $15,000 and issued a promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of issuance. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $9,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. 22 On January 22, 2018, the Company received cash proceeds of $8,000 and issued a promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of issuance. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $5,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. On January 26, 2018, the Company received cash proceeds of $40,000 and issued a promissory note in exchange for the cash proceeds. The promissory note accrues interest at 6% per annum and is due one year from the date of issuance. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share, with no adjustments to the conversion price. The conversion feature meets the definition of conventional convertible debt and therefore qualifies for the scope exception in ASC 815-10-15-74(a) and would not be bifurcated and accounted for separately as a derivative liability. The note is convertible into shares of common stock at $0.05 per share. The Company analyzed the conversion feature under ASC 470-20, and based on the market price of the common stock of the Company on the date of funding as compared to the conversion price, determined there was a $24,000 beneficial conversion feature to recognize, which will be amortized over the term of the note using the effective interest method. Going Concern The condensed consolidated financial statements contained in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company has accumulated losses from inception through the period ended September 30, 2017 of approximately $103,034,000, and a working capital deficit of approximately $9,609,000, as well as negative cash flows from operating activities. Presently, the Company does not have sufficient cash resources to meet its debt obligations in the twelve months following the date of this filing. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Management is in the process of evaluating various financing alternatives in order to finance its capital requirements, as well as for general and administrative expenses. These alternatives include raising funds through public or private equity markets and either through institutional or retail investors. Although there is no assurance that the Company will be successful with its fund-raising initiatives, management believes that the Company will be able to secure the necessary financing as a result of ongoing financing discussions with third party investors and existing shareholders. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The Companys continuation as a going concern is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing as may be required and ultimately to attain profitability. If the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity, the percentage ownership of current shareholders could be reduced, and such securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights, preferences and privileges of the Companys common stock. Additional financing may not be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to take advantage of prospective business endeavors or opportunities, which could significantly and materially restrict its future plans for developing its business and achieving commercial revenues. If the Company is unable to obtain the necessary capital, the Company may have to cease operations. 23 Working Capital Deficiency September 30, December 31, 2017 2016 Current assets $ 31,336 $ 44,582 Current liabilities 9,640,362 9,313,134 Working capital deficiency $ (9,609,026 ) $ (9,268,552 ) The decrease in current assets is mainly due to the amortization of prepaid expenses. The increase in current liabilities is primarily due to an increase in accrued expenses and accrued interest, as well as the increase of convertible debt balances as a result of new convertible debt of $140,000 and the amortization of debt discounts during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, offset by conversions of $60,000. Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Net cash used in operating activities $ (136,389 ) $ (297,212 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 56,500 Net cash provided by financing activities 140,000 240,000 Increase (decrease) in cash $ 3,611 $ (712 ) Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $136,389 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Cash used in operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to the payments on the settlement of lawsuits of $65,000, as well as the net loss of $456,156 offset by amortization of debt discounts and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities was $297,212 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, primarily due to a net loss of $657,666, increased by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and offset by the amortization of debt discounts. Investing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, net cash provided by investing activities was $56,500 from the sale of equipment. Financing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was $140,000, which was from the issuance of short term convertible debt notes, of which $60,000 was converted. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $220,000 from the issuance of convertible debt notes, which were converted during July of 2016, and $20,000 for the sale of common stock. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of the SECs Regulation S-K. 24 Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our business, revenues or operating results during the periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our financial statements included herein for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 and in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of Long-lived Assets We are reviewing the property and equipment, intangible assets subject to amortization and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset class may not be recoverable. Indicators of potential impairment include: an adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; an adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is used or is expected to be used, or in its physical condition; and current or forecasted operating or cash flow losses that demonstrate continuing losses associated with the use of the asset. If indicators of impairment are present, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. If the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, then the asset is considered to be impaired and its carrying value is written down to fair value, based on the related estimated discounted cash flows. There were no impairment charges in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Recent Accounting Standards In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods for public business entities beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting, however as there have been no revenues to date, the Company does not expect the adoption to have a material impact. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term. Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease. Costs of an operating lease will continue to be recognized as a single operating expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Costs for a financing lease will be disaggregated and recognized as both an operating expense (for the amortization of the right-of-use asset) and interest expense (for interest on the lease liability). This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019 and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and the potential impact of this standard, but as the Company does not have any significant leases, it does not expect it to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. During the period ended September 30, 2017 and through March 23, 2018, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 25