Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in connection with the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements Readers are cautioned that the following discussion contains certain forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing at the beginning of this Quarterly Report. The information contained in Item 2 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results may materially differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties set forth in this report. Although management believes that the assumptions made and expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that the underlying assumptions will, in fact, prove to be correct or that actual results will not be different from expectations expressed in this report. We desire to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This filing contains a number of forward-looking statements, which reflect managements current views and expectations with respect to our business, strategies, future results and events, and financial performance. All statements made in this filing other than statements of historical fact, including statements addressing any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements of belief; statements expressing general optimism about future operating results; any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; and non-historical information, are forward looking statements. In particular, the words believe, expect, intend, anticipate, estimate, may, variations of such words, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements, and their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from historical results as well as those expressed in, anticipated, or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to revise these forward-looking statements to reflect any future events or circumstances. Readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on managements current expectations and projections about future events, are not guarantees of future performance, are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions (including those described below), and apply only as of the date of this filing. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks to be discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the press releases and other communications to shareholders issued by us from time to time which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors which may affect our business. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. History Standard Metals Processing, Inc. (formerly known as Standard Gold Holdings, Inc., Standard Gold, Inc. and Princeton Acquisitions, Inc.) was incorporated in the State of Colorado on July 10, 1985. On September 29, 2009, we completed a share exchange agreement with Hunter Bates Mining Corporation, a Minnesota corporation (Hunter Bates) and certain of its shareholders, in which Hunter Bates shareholders exchanged all of their capital securities into similar capital securities of ours (the Hunter Bates Share Exchange) and we adopted the business model of Hunter Bates of minerals exploration and mining. Accordingly, the Hunter Bates Share Exchange represented a change in control and Hunter Bates became our wholly owned subsidiary. Prior to September 29, 2009, Wits Basin Precious Minerals Inc., a Minnesota corporation and public reporting company quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol WITM (Wits Basin) was the majority shareholder of Hunter Bates. Hunter Bates was formed in April 2008 to acquire the prior producing gold mine properties (consisting of land, buildings, equipment, mining claims and permits) located in Central City, Colorado, known as the Bates-Hunter Mine. 21 On March 15, 2011, we closed a series of transactions, whereby we acquired certain assets of Shea Mining & Milling, LLC (Shea Mining), which assets include land, buildings, a dormant milling facility, abandoned milling equipment, water permits, mine tailings, mine dumps and the assignment of a note payable, a lease and a contract agreement with permits. We completed the Shea Exchange Agreement in order to offer toll milling services of precious minerals. Toll milling is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as gold, silver, and platinum group metals. Custom milling and refining can include many different processes to extract precious metals from carbon or concentrates. These toll-processing services also distill, dry, mix, or mill chemicals and bulk materials on a contractual basis and provide a chemical production outsourcing option for industrial companies which lack the expertise, capacity, or regulatory permits for in-house production. The Company re-domiciled in Nevada from Colorado in March 2013. We determined that, due to a lack of connection to Colorado, it was in the best interest of the Company to move its domicile to Nevada. Overview of the Company Standard Metals Processing, Inc. (we, us, our, Standard Metals or the Company) has offices in Gadsden, Alabama, New York, New York and through its subsidiary, a property in Tonopah, Nevada. Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on our Tonopah property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility (which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallugircal plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant). The Company will perform permitted custom processing toll milling which is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as minerals in the gold, silver and platinum metal groups. Custom milling and refining can include many different processes that are designed specifically for each ore load and to maximize the extraction of precious metals from carbon or concentrates. These custom processing services also distill, dry, mix, or mill chemicals and bulk materials on a contractual basis and provide a chemical production outsourcing option for industrial companies, which lack the expertise, capacity, or regulatory permits for in-house production. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PERMIT WITH THE NEVADA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Through the subsidiary of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Tonopah Custom Processing, Inc. (TCP), a Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) Application was filed with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) Bureau of Mines and Mining Reclamation (BMMR) for the approval of the permits necessary for a small-scale mineral processing facility planned for the Tonopah Property. The plant will perform laboratory testing, pilot testing, and custom processing of precious metal ores and concentrates from mining industry clients. Processing of ore materials will employ standard mineral processing techniques including gravity concentration, froth flotation and chemical leaching and carbon stripping. The WPCP must be approved prior to commencing the planned construction of our processing plant in Tonopah, Nevada. We are still in the technical review stage of our WPCP. While the Company awaits approval, we are preparing for construction of our processing facility which includes working with contractors that will be building the new 21,875 square foot processing plant, cleaning and preparing the property, and refurbishing a trailer that will act as our construction office. In connection with our WPCP application, NDEP suggested that we take the following actions: (i) retain a Nevada Certified Environmental Manager (CEM), (ii) perform Meteoric Profile II water testing on ground water directly below the mill as well as surrounding wells located off site, and (iii) determine baseline values of water using the Meteoric Profile II results. NDEP regulations require that the Company delay any new construction planned for metal extraction until after the permits are in place. We hired Allstate-Nevada Environmental Management, Inc., as our CEM to assist us with obtaining an NDEP WPCP and to help us fulfill all the requirements of NDEP including the Meteoric Profile II analysis, as well as advise on the overall site cleanup and assisting with any other NDEP requirements. 22 Survey In March 2013, Advanced Surveying & Professional Services, as our Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), completed surveys and testing of the Tonopah property required for the application of our required permits. After completion of the survey, it was determined the property is 1,183 acres. The scope of work our PLS completed includes: (i) setting a total of 19 permanent monuments at angle points along lines, (ii) setting eight permanent monuments locating US Hwy 95, (iii) recording a professional map indicating longitude and latitude for all corners, and (iv) providing a digital map accessible in AutoCad software. Equipment, Facility and Site Preparation The Company received leased heavy equipment on August 1, 2013, which was used to begin cleanup of the site to prepare it for the new construction. We ordered a pre-fabricated building on November 4, 2013 and took delivery of the building on March 21, 2014. The Company accepted delivery of additional large heavy equipment on April 1, 2014. We have completed the initial grading of specific designated areas on the 40 undisturbed acres of land including clearing all vegetation, removing of all scrap metal, and the excavation of the building pad for the preparation of the new 21,875 square foot processing plant. With the additional large heavy equipment onsite, we have completed the removal of all the extra and unnecessary materials and old equipment that has accumulated on the land. In April 2014, we purchased a complete Concrete Batch Plant, including four cement trucks, to reduce the overall cost of construction activities on site. This purchase is estimated to reduce the overall cost of construction by at least $500,000. In August 2014, we purchased an extensive array of heavy-duty construction and milling equipment for use in the construction and operation of the Tonopah facility. The heavy equipment allows us to construct the processing plant and tailings ponds using our own equipment, saving the cost of expensive lease payments. The heavy equipment includes the necessary machinery for construction including dozers, loaders, water trucks and heavy transport tractors as well as equipment required for production including crushers, screening plants, and conveyors. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The Companys business plan is to become a full service permitted custom toll milling and processing company that facilitates the extraction of precious and strategic minerals from mined material. The Company is in the process of obtaining the permits needed for construction and operation of our permitted custom processing toll milling facility with state of the art equipment capable of processing gold, silver and platinum metal groups. While Nevada has a historic role as a mining center with good proximate geology and ample mined product, very little custom processing toll milling capacity remains in the state. During the last several decades, other processing facilities have been shuttered due to high costs of regulations and the vertical integration of milling within large mining companies leaving junior miners with few options for local milling services. As a result, Standard Metals is in a unique position among processing facilities because it is capable of true permitted custom processing. We have the only ball mill located within a custom toll milling facility within 300 miles allowing us to serve miners in the western United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America. Many junior miners are undercapitalized, have limited access to capital markets and have a large supply of mined material that requires milling be performed. Many large mining companies reserve their milling capacity for their inventory, which does not make providing third party services worthwhile. This provides the Company with an opportunity to provide these potential customers with badly needed milling and processing services. Currently, the Company is waiting for the approval of pending applications for the permits required for us to commence construction of our facilities to conduct permitted custom processing toll milling operations. TOLL MILLING Toll milling is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as minerals in the gold, silver and platinum metal groups. Custom milling and refining that are designed specifically for each ore load can include many different processes to maximize the extraction of precious metals from ore, carbon or concentrates. 23 Procedure Ore is sent to our facility at the responsibility and cost of the customer. The Company will take a sample of the ore through a specific ore sampling procedure. The Companys metallurgist will test the sample on site. To obtain a quantitative determination of the amount of a given substance in a particular sample, the Company can perform wet methods and dry methods. In the wet method, the sample is dissolved in a reagent, like acid, until the purified metal is separated out. In the dry method, the sample is mixed with a flux (a substance such as borax or silica that helps lower the melting temperature) and then heated so that the impurities in the metal fuse with the flux, leaving the purified metal as residue. If it is determined that the sample is approved for processing, the customer and the Company will then agree upon a value of the metal grade per ton. If there is any disagreement on the value, a third party referee determines the value by testing the sample. The Company charges either a flat fee per ton of the ore processed or a percentage of the precious metals extracted during processing, or a combination of both based on the amount of work that is performed. There are various methods of extraction. The Company will determine which method to use based upon the sample received. In most situations, a series of tests will be performed on a bulk sample ranging in size from 250 to 1,000 pounds. A metallurgist will determine the best process or processes to use for the extraction based on several factors. These include the composition of the host rock, mineralization of the host rock, whether or not it is an oxide or sulphide ore body, and the particle size of the precious metal. After the metallurgist reviews these characteristics, the Company will run ore on a gold table and assays the concentrates, middlings, and tails. An assay is an investigative procedure for qualitatively assessing or quantitatively measuring the presence or amount of precious metals in ore. If there is too much gold in the middling or tails, the size of the grind is adjusted to increase yield or if there is not enough gold in the middlings or tails the Company grinds the material to a coarser mesh. Some of our miner customers will be able to take their tailings (the material left over after the desired minerals have been extracted) from the material they deposited with the Company and put it back in the exact same mines those particular tailings came from. This eliminates the need for the Company to dispose of those tailings. Concentrate/Leach Circuit Concentration is the separation of precious minerals from other materials by utilizing different properties of the minerals to be separated including density, magnetic or electric and physiochemical. The Company will attempt to create a concentrate of minerals to reduce the size of each ton processed. The Company may also receive concentrates from customers, especially those where transport of tons of raw ore is not feasible. The leaching process uses chemicals to extract the metals from the solid materials (concentrates) and bring them into a solution. Once the metals are in the solution, it is passed through carbon or resin columns where the precious metals are deposited onto the carbon/resin. The metals will then be stripped from the carbon back into a different solution where they are pumped through an electrowinning circuit in a process called carbon stripping. The metals are then deposited onto stainless steel in the electrowinning circuit. After this stage, the metals are either sold or further refined off-site. The solution is recycled and used again to process additional material. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2015 COMPARED TO THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2014. Revenues We had no revenues from any operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Furthermore, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue until we have sufficiently funded operations and receive all permits required for us to construct our facility and begin operations. General and administrative expenses were $7,113,362 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $2,530,490 for the same period in 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, the majority of general and administrative expense was compensation expense related to options and warrants totaling $6,543,843 as compared to $2,105,055 compensation expenses related to options and warrants in the same period in 2014. In the three months ended March 31, 2015, compensation expenses as well as operating expenses increased due to the employment agreements the Company entered into with its key officers and the increase in construction costs as we have begun site preparation for the toll milling facility and costs associated with permits, research and agreements. We anticipate that future compensation expenses will increase and that certain operating expenses will continue to increase for fiscal 2015 as we continue to build the infrastructure to proceed with permitted custom processing toll milling services. 24 Other Income and Expenses Other Income We receive monthly payments of $608 from American Tower Corporation for a cellular tower located on our Tonopah land. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $53,717, compared to $44,945 for the respective period in 2014. The 2015 and 2014 amounts relate primarily to the interest due on our notes payable: (i) the $2,500,000 secured, convertible promissory note issued to Pure Path on October 10, 2013 in accordance with the settlement agreement of same date. All prior debt was subsumed under this note, the outstanding of which was $2,092,097 plus accrued interest at 8% per annum on March 31, 2015; (ii) the short-term note payable; and (iii) the convertible notes issued in 2011 and 2012. Loss on Settlement of Debt Loss on settlement of debt for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $0 compared to $926,096, for the respective period in 2014. We have been negotiating with several debt holders to convert their debt to our common stock to conserve capital for building and operating expenses. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is a measure of an entitys ability to secure enough cash to meet its contractual and operating needs as they arise. We have funded our operations and satisfied our capital requirements through the issuance of short-term debt, convertible debt and through equity capital we have received via certain shareholders exercising their warrants and loans from related parties during the three months periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. We do not anticipate generating sufficient net positive cash flows from our operations to fund the next twelve months. We had a working capital deficit of $5,541,561 at March 31, 2015. Cash and cash equivalents were $9,201 at March 31, 2015, representing a decrease of $95,098 from the cash and cash equivalents of $104,299 at March 31, 2014. Our cash reserves will not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and thus, we need to raise additional capital to pay for our operational expenses and provide for capital expenditures. Our basic operational expenses are estimated at approximately $500,000 per month. Above the basic operational expenses, we estimate that we need approximately $10,000,000 to begin limited toll milling operations. If we are not able to raise additional working capital, we may have to cease operations altogether. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, we had net cash used in operating activities of $247,625, as compared to $569,262 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 we had net cash used in investing activities of $169,269 and $177,255 respectively. The amount in 2015 and 2014 was due to the funds required to conduct site preparation on our Tonopah, Nevada property and purchase of machinery and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we had net cash provided by financing activities of $390,000 and $707,717, respectively. Summary Our existing sources of liquidity will not provide enough cash to fund our development and operations and make the required payments on our debt service for the next twelve months. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent entirely on raising funds through the sale of equity or debt. We will continue our attempt to raise additional capital. Some of the possibilities available to us are through private equity transactions, to develop a credit facility with a lender or the exercise of options and warrants. However, such additional capital may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, we would be forced to cease operations altogether. 25 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we did not engage in any off balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of the SECs Regulation S-K.