ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. See Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements Readers are cautioned that the following discussion contains certain forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing at the beginning of this Annual Report. The information contained in Item 7 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results may materially differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties set forth in this report. Although management believes that the assumptions made and expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that the underlying assumptions will, in fact, prove to be correct or that actual results will not be different from expectations expressed in this report. We desire to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This filing contains a number of forward-looking statements, which reflect managements current views and expectations with respect to our business, strategies, products, future results and events, and financial performance. All statements made in this filing other than statements of historical fact, including statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments which management expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including statements related to distributor channels, volume growth, revenues, profitability, new products, adequacy of funds from operations, statements expressing general optimism about future operating results, and non-historical information, are forward looking statements. In particular, the words believe, expect, intend, anticipate, estimate, may, variations of such words, and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements, and their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from historical results as well as those expressed in, anticipated, or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to revise these forward-looking statements to reflect any future events or circumstances. Readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on managements current expectations and projections about future events, are not guarantees of future performance, are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions (including those described below), and apply only as of the date of this filing. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Factors which could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks to be discussed in our Annual Report on form 10-K and in the press releases and other communications to shareholders issued by us from time to time which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors which may affect our business. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Water Pollution Control Permit Through the Companys subsidiaries, a Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) Application will need to be filed with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) Bureau of Mines and Mining Reclamation (BMMR) for the approval of the permits necessary for a small-scale mineral processing facility planned for the Tonopah Property. The plant will perform laboratory testing, pilot testing, and custom processing of precious metal ores and concentrates from mining industry clients. Processing of ore materials will employ standard mineral processing techniques including gravity concentration, froth flotation and chemical leaching and carbon stripping. The WPCP must be approved prior to commencing the planned construction of our processing plant in Tonopah, Nevada. In connection with the WPCP application, NDEP suggested that we take the following actions: (i) retain a Nevada Certified Environmental Manager (CEM), (ii) perform Meteoric Profile II water testing on ground water directly below the mill as well as surrounding wells located off site, and (iii) determine baseline values of water using the Meteoric Profile II results. NDEP regulations require that the Company delay any new construction planned for metal extraction until after the permits are in place. 11 Advanced Surveying & Professional Services, a Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), completed surveys and testing of the Tonopah property required for the application of our required permits. After completion of the survey, it was determined the property is 1,186 acres. The scope of work the PLS completed includes: (i) setting a total of 19 permanent monuments at angle points along lines, (ii) setting eight permanent monuments locating US Hwy 95, (iii) recording a professional map indicating longitude and latitude for all corners, and (iv) providing a digital map accessible in AutoCAD software. Site Preparation We have completed the initial grading of specific designated areas on the 40 undisturbed acres of land including clearing all vegetation, removing of all scrap metal, and the excavation of the building pad for the preparation of the new 21,875 square foot processing plant and have completed the removal of all the extra and unnecessary materials and old equipment that have accumulated on the land. We refurbished a trailer that will act as our construction office. Business Plan Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on the Tonopah property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. On March 27, 2020, the Company engaged NovaMetallix. Inc. (NMX), a member of the SMS Group, a GPR affiliate, to conduct a study of the quantity and quality of our historic mine tailings, and the economic feasibility of processing them to reclaim their residual content of gold, silver, and other valuable metals. NMX, a firm comprised of world class mining, geological and metallurgical engineering professionals, is dedicated to the rapidly developing field of sustainable metal recovery. NMX has agreed to conduct the study of the Companys tailings in exchange for GPRs agreement to underwrite its cost and expense, and the exclusive right to process the tailings should their economic assessment prove positive. The terms of such processing to be mutually agreed upon in the future based on the results of the assessment. On September 13, 2023, the Company executed an agreement to acquire a 100% interest in SWIS, L.L.C. (SWIS). The Company issued 1,500,000 shares of restricted common stock in exchange for a 100% interest in SWIS. The Company believes this acquisition will help strengthen our economics and further our goal to decrease our environmental impact and promote environmentally conscious operations. SWIS was incorporated in the state of Kentucky and is operating out of a company office in Louisville, Kentucky. SWIS has developed an algorithm and a smart device that provides essential information to improve water quality from Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO). Recently, we have assigned the patent to the University of Louisville (U of L) with the intent to commercialize the solution on behalf of the university, community, state and country. More importantly, SWIS along with other fellow entrepreneurs and environmental stewards have assembled a team to launch SWIS, with stakeholders from U of L, Municipal Sewer Districts (MSD), and several state governments. SWIS is actively ready to launch a pilot project to test its modernized approach to CSO Public Notification Programs. Currently, the patented algorithm is on standby for integration into smart plugs that will be used for non-invasive in-home notification. An implementation playbook has been designed for municipal use. SWIS has a management team well versed in the necessary strategies for market penetration and adoption and looks to test its behavior modification program abilities with the U of L. Combined Sewer Systems (CSS) were built over a century ago with the intention to divert wastewater away from households. CSS collect rainwater runoff, domestic sewage, and industrial wastewater into a single pipe system, which then transports the combined wastewater to a treatment plant. When the aged CSS is overwhelmed, the result is untreated wastewater being discharged directly into public waterways, such as creeks, streams, rivers, and other local bodies of water referred to as CSO. The resulting discharges of pollutants into public waterways increases the amount of suspended solids from point-source origins introduced to the ecosystem, creating a significant health hazard for wildlife and humans exposed to these waterways, historically tied to disease transmission. These violate the Clean Water Act and result in significant repercussions from the EPA. Currently, over forty million people in 700+ municipalities nationwide live in a municipality with a CSS. 12 Current solutions rely predominantly on inadequate Public Notification Programs to prevent water use at the source, the household, during high-risk CSO times. The current Public Notification Programs utilized by all municipalities in a CSS entails email signups, website banners, pamphlets, signs, etc., which remains arduous and ineffective. This antiquated, ineffective approach creates the immediate need to develop a modern, real-time notification system that gives individual households and facilities the immediately ability to positively modify their water use behavior resulting in a decrease in harmful point source pollutants unknowingly and unnecessarily being introduced to public waterways. This project would greatly contribute to the universities expanding sustainability program and would put U of L and SWIS in an advanced position to compete to be one of six universities in the US that the EPA will chose as stormwater research hubs. With the completion of a successful Research Project, these stated goals and deliverables would revolutionize a major component of the $1 trillion water infrastructure issue plaguing a growing population and prime U of L and SWIS for nationwide Public Notification Program adoption. The development of our platform will modernize Public Education and Notification Programs that will significantly reduce the monetary cost and health risk of CSO events for municipalities worldwide. The results to be discovered at U of L will give SWIS data and information capable of educating citizens of developed cities across the globe and seamlessly integrating newly developed nations. Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022 Revenues We had no revenues from any operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Furthermore, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue until we have sufficiently funded construction and begin operations. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $593,994 for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to $323,940 for the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to increased legal and advisory costs due to increased business activity. We anticipate that future administration and operating expenses will increase for fiscal 2024 as we work toward completion of the planned merger. Other Income and Expenses Each year we receive monthly payments of approximately $700 per month, totaling $8,395 per year, from American Tower Corporation for a cellular tower located on our Tonopah land. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company recognized gains due to the write off of numerous accrued claims that were no longer enforceable or settled for less than face amount aggregating $57,571. The Company also recognized an impairment related to assets acquired with the SWIS acquisition of $2,625,000. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $761,634 compared to $752,233 for the respective period in 2022. The $9,401 increase during 2023 compared to 2022 is primarily due to different amounts outstanding on the debt instruments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of an entitys ability to secure enough cash to meet its contractual and operating needs as they arise. We have funded our operations and satisfied our capital requirements principally through increases in our LOC with GPR. We do not anticipate generating sufficient positive cash flows from our operations to fund the next 12 months. We had a working capital deficit of $3,095,998, at December 31, 2023. Cash was $36,254, at December 31, 2023, as compared to cash of $1,251 at December 31, 2022. Our cash reserves will not be adequate to meet our operational needs and thus, we need to raise additional capital to pay for our operational expenses and provide for capital expenditures. Our basic operational expenses are currently approximately $49,000 per month, without regard to accrued interest of approximately $63,000 per month. Above our basic monthly expenses, we estimate that we need $50,000,000 to begin limited toll milling operations. If we are not able to raise additional working capital, we may have to cease operations altogether. 13 Recent Financings During the year ended December 31, 2022, GPR, a related party, advanced $314,433 pursuant to the LOC in direct payments on the Companys behalf to reduce certain accounts payable. The balance due GPR under this line of credit is comprised of principal of $1,199,527 and accrued interest of $184,928 at December 31, 2022. The Company entered into an Amendment and Forbearance Agreement with GPR on January 5, 2023 wherein GPR agreed to: (a) increase the existing LOC from $5,000,000 due March 16, 2025 to $35,000,000 due March 16, 2027, (b) roll two existing promissory notes purchased by GPR into the LOC resulting in the extinguishment of such notes as separate instruments, and (c) to forebear until January 12, 2024, on exercising its foreclosure rights under its defaulted Senior Secured Note. The Companys Board of Directors approved a revision in the conversion price at which the LOC may convert into the Companys common stock from $1.65 per share to $1.05 per share, based upon the market price of the Companys common stock over the 3 days preceding the agreement. GPR is the Companys majority shareholder and largest debtholder. GPR holds a senior secured interest in all of the assets of the Company, including the stock of its subsidiary entities. Effective June 12, 2023, the Company entered into a Third Amendment Agreement with GPR, wherein the LOC was increased to $52,500,000 and both the Senior Secured Promissory Note (previously held by Pure Path and acquired in 2019) and the Flechner Judgment (see the Companys 10-K for 2022) were rolled into the balance of the LOC and the Deed of Trust was increased to $250,000,000. During the year ended December 31, 2023, GPR, a related party, advanced $262,398 in direct payments on the Companys behalf, to reduce certain accounts payable and pay operating expenses. The balance due GPR under this LOC is comprised of principal of $191,231 and accrued interest of $17,384, at December 31, 2023. In furtherance of the preparation for the planned merger with the SMS Group, GPR converted a $5,250,000 portion of the LOC into 5 million shares of restricted common stock effective August 2, 2023. The remaining $5,506,441 balance of the LOC was converted into 5,244,230 shares of restricted common stock effective August 15, 2023. GPR now owns 10,542,989 shares of common stock, which is 73% of the Companys outstanding shares of common stock. Going Concern The consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company has accumulated losses from inception through the period ended December 31, 2023, of $107,939,395 and a working capital deficit of $3,095,998, as well as negative cash flows from operating activities. Presently, the Company does not have adequate cash resources to meet its debt obligations in the 12 months following the date of this filing. In addition, virtually all of the Companys assets are encumbered or are pledged under senior secured debt that is in default. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Management is in the process of evaluating various financing alternatives to finance its capital requirements, as well as for general and administrative expenses. These alternatives include raising funds through public or private equity markets and either through institutional or retail investors. Although there is no assurance that the Company will be successful with its fund-raising initiatives, management believes that the Company will be able to secure the necessary financing as a result of ongoing financing discussions with third party investors and existing shareholders. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The Companys continuation as a going concern is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing as may be required and ultimately to attain profitability. If the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity, the percentage ownership of current shareholders could be reduced, and such securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights, preferences and privileges of the Companys common stock. Additional financing may not be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to take advantage of prospective business endeavors or opportunities, which could significantly and materially restrict its future plans for developing its business and achieving commercial revenues. If the Company is unable to obtain the necessary capital, the Company may have to cease operations. 14 Working Capital Deficiency December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Current assets $ 36,394 $ 1,251 Current liabilities 3,132,392 12,351,299 Working capital deficiency $ (3,095,998 ) $ (12,350,048 ) Current assets remained stable between periods. The decrease in current liabilities is primarily due to a decrease in accrued interest relating to the Companys convertible debentures and notes payable, as well as the decrease of convertible debt balances as a result of increasing advances from GPR, a related party. Cash Flows Years Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 35,003 $ (1,112 ) Net cash provided by investing activities Net cash provided by financing activities Increase (decrease) in cash $ 35,003 $ (1,112 ) Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities was $1,112 for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net cash provided by operating activities was $35,003 for the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to the net loss for the year, net of expenses paid directly by related party and increases in accruals for settlement of lawsuit and interest Investing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022 the Company conducted no investing activities. Financing Activities The Companys financing during 2023 was from non-cash advances from a related party totaling $262,398, which were paid to certain vendors on the Companys behalf. The Companys financing during 2022 was from non-cash advances from a related party totaling $314,433, for expenses of the Company paid by such related party. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the year ended December 31, 2023, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of the SECs Regulation S-K. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our business, revenues or operating results during the periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 15 Impairment of Long-lived Assets We are reviewing the property and equipment, intangible assets subject to amortization and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset class may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 360-10-35, Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. Indicators of potential impairment include: an adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; an adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is used or is expected to be used, or in its physical condition; and current or forecasted operating or cash flow losses that demonstrate continuing losses associated with the use of the asset. If indicators of impairment are present, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. If the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, then the asset is considered to be impaired and its carrying value is written down to fair value, based on the related estimated discounted cash flows. There were no impairment charges in the year ended December 31, 2023, however, in 2019 we decided to combine the carrying value of our mining and mineral assets as they are inseparable and depend upon each other in value creation. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for based upon an asset and liability approach. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from the difference between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the financial statements. Deferred tax amounts are determined using the tax rates expected to be in effect when the taxes will actually be paid or refunds received, as provided under currently enacted tax law. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Income tax expense or benefit is the tax payable or refundable, respectively, for the period plus or minus the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period. Accounting guidance requires the recognition of a financial statement benefit of a tax position only after determining that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount recognized in the financial statements is the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority. The Company believes its income tax filing positions and deductions will be sustained upon examination and accordingly, no reserves, or related accruals for interest and penalties have been recorded at December 31, 2023 and 2022. The Company recognizes interest and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits as well as interest received from favorable tax settlements within income tax expense. Recent Accounting Standards During the year ended December 31, 2023 and through July 12, 2024, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.