ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in connection with the accompanying unaudited condensed financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, as filed with the SEC on April 2, 2020. Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward Looking Statements Readers are cautioned that the following discussion contains certain forward-looking statements and should be read in conjunction with the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing at the beginning of this Quarterly Report. The information contained in this Item 2 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results may materially differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risks and uncertainties set forth in this report. Although management believes that the assumptions made and expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that the underlying assumptions will, in fact, prove to be correct or that actual results will not be different from expectations expressed in this report. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and unless otherwise indicated, the terms Company, we, us, and our refer to Standard Metals Processing, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tonopah Milling and Metals Group, Inc. (TMMG), and TMMGs wholly-owned subsidiaries Tonopah Custom Processing, Inc. (TCP) and Tonopah Resources, Inc. (TR). Unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars. Corporate History We were incorporated in the State of Colorado on July 10, 1985 and re-domiciled in Nevada in March 2013. In 2011, we closed a series of transactions, whereby we acquired certain assets of Shea Mining & Milling, LLC, which assets include land, buildings, a dormant milling facility, abandoned milling equipment, water permits, mine tailings, mine dumps and the assignment of a note payable, a lease and a contract agreement with permits. We completed the Shea Exchange Agreement in order to offer toll milling services of precious minerals. Toll milling is a process whereby mined material is crushed and ground into fine particles to ease the extraction of any precious minerals contained therein, such as gold, silver, and platinum group metals. Custom milling and refining can include many different processes to extract precious metals from carbon or concentrates. These toll-processing services also distill, dry, mix, or mill chemicals and bulk materials on a contractual basis and provide a chemical production outsourcing option for industrial companies which lack the expertise, capacity, or regulatory permits for in-house production. Overview of the Company We have an office in Gadsden, Alabama and, through a subsidiary, a property in Tonopah, Nevada. Our business plan is to purchase equipment and build a facility on the Tonopah property to serve as a permitted custom processing toll milling facility which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical plant, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. We are required to obtain several permits before we can begin construction of a small-scale mineral processing facility and the required additional buildings to conduct permitted processing toll milling activities and commence operations. 11 Water Pollution Control Permit with Nevada Department of Environmental Protection Through the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries, a Water Pollution Control Permit (WPCP) Application was filed with the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection (NDEP) Bureau of Mines and Mining Reclamation (BMMR) for the approval of the permits necessary for a small-scale mineral processing facility planned for the Tonopah property. The plant will perform laboratory testing, pilot testing, and custom processing of precious metal ores and concentrates from mining industry clients. Processing of ore materials will employ standard mineral processing techniques including gravity concentration, froth flotation and chemical leaching and carbon stripping. The WPCP must be approved prior to commencing the planned construction of our processing plant in Tonopah, Nevada. In connection with our WPCP application, NDEP suggested that we take the following actions: (i) retain a Nevada Certified Environmental Manager (CEM), (ii) perform Meteoric Profile II water testing on ground water directly below the mill as well as surrounding wells located off site, and (iii) determine baseline values of water using the Meteoric Profile II results. NDEP regulations require that the Company delay any new construction planned for metal extraction until after the permits are in place. Advanced Surveying & Professional Services, a Professional Land Surveyor (PLS), completed surveys and testing of the Tonopah property required for the application of our required permits. After completion of the survey, it was determined the property is 1,186 acres. The scope of work the PLS completed includes: (i) setting a total of 19 permanent monuments at angle points along lines, (ii) setting eight permanent monuments locating US Hwy 95, (iii) recording a professional map indicating longitude and latitude for all corners, and (iv) providing a digital map accessible in Auto Cad software. Site Preparation We have completed the initial grading of specific designated areas on the 40 undisturbed acres of land including clearing all vegetation, removing of all scrap metal, and the excavation of the building pad for preparation of the our planned new 21,875 square foot processing plant and have completed the removal of all the extra and unnecessary materials and old equipment that has accumulated on the land. We have also refurbished a trailer that will act as our construction office. Business Plan The Company is reexamining its next steps for developing a processing facility. In an effort to move the Companys business plan forward, the Company may evaluate opportunities to acquire, license, or joint venture with other parties involved in toll milling, processing, or mining related activities, which may include Granite Peak Resources, LLC and its affiliated entities including, but not limited to, Sustainable Metal Solutions LLC, NovaMetallix, Inc, and Black Bear Natural Resources, LTD. On March 27, 2020 GPR engaged NovaMetallix, Inc. (NMX), a member of the Sustainable Metal Solutions LLC, and a GPR affiliate, to conduct a study of the quantity and quality of the Companys historic mine tailings which are subject to GPRs First Deed of Trust, and the economic feasibility of processing them to reclaim their residual content of gold, silver, and other valuable metals. NMX, a firm comprised of world class mining, geological and metallurgical engineering professionals, is the leading force in the rapidly developing field of sustainable metals. NMX has agreed to conduct the study of the Companys tailings in exchange for GPRs agreement to underwrite its cost and expense, and the exclusive right to process the tailings should their economic assessment prove positive. The terms of such processing to be mutually agreed upon between GPR, NMX and the Company in the future based on the results of the assessment. It was previously erroneously disclosed the Company had engaged NMX. On April 17, 2020, the Company and Sustainable Metal Solutions, LLC (SMS), an affiliate of GPR, agreed to form a joint venture styled Esmeralda Renewal Energy Zone, LLC (EREZ). The Company has agreed to contribute the solar energy rights attributable to its 1,083 acres to EREZ in exchange for SMSs agreement to develop, manage and underwrite the EREZ venture. 12 Products and Services We plan to establish ourselves as a custom processing and permitted toll milling service provider. Our business plan is to build a facility on our Tonopah property, which includes an analytical lab, pyrometallurgical, and hydrometallurgical recovery plant. The Companys intention is to become a full service permitted custom toll milling and processing company that facilitates the extraction of precious and strategic minerals from mined material. The Company is in the process of obtaining the permits needed for construction and operation of our permitted custom processing toll milling facility with state of the art equipment capable of processing gold, silver and platinum metal groups. Many junior miners do not have the capital or the ability to permit a processing facility, yet they have a large supply of mined material that requires milling be performed. It is often cost prohibitive or impractical for these mine operators to send their materials to processing mills owned by the large mining companies, or to other customers with badly needed milling and processing services. While Nevada has a historic role as a mining center with good proximate geology and ample mined product, very little custom processing toll milling capacity remains in the state. During the last several decades, other processing facilities have been shuttered due to high costs of regulations and the vertical integration of milling within large mining companies leaving junior miners with few options for local milling services. As a result, we are in a unique position among processing facilities because we are capable of true permitted custom processing. We have the only ball mill located within a custom toll milling facility within 300 miles allowing us to serve miners in the western United States, Canada, Mexico, and Central America. Many junior miners are undercapitalized, have limited access to capital markets and have a large supply of mined material that requires milling be performed. Many large mining companies reserve their milling capacity for their inventory, which does not make providing third party services worthwhile. This provides the Company with an opportunity to provide these potential customers with badly needed milling and processing services. Some of our mining customers will be able to take their tailings (the material left over after the desired minerals have been extracted) from the material they deposited with the Company and put it back in the exact same mines those particular tailings came from. This eliminates the need for the Company to dispose of those tailings. Results of Operation Comparison of Three Months and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 to Three Months and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Revenues We had no revenues from any operations for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. Furthermore, we do not anticipate any significant future revenue until we have sufficiently funded construction and begin operations. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $106,058 for the three months ended September 30, 2020, as compared to $862 for the same period in 2019. For the three months ended September 30, 2019, general and administrative expenses declined materially due to reduced office costs consistent with lack of funding. In the three months ended September 30, 2020, the $106,058 total related principally to resumption of normal accounting and legal costs plus the additional cost of the combined loss on modification of options and warrants. We anticipate that that operating expenses will increase during the remainder of 2020 as we continue to access more funding support. 13 Other Income and Expenses We receive monthly lease payments of from American Tower Corporation for a cellular tower located on our Tonopah land. As such Other Income for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $2,099 compared to $1,825 for the respective period in 2019. Periodically the Company reviews the outstanding claims that have not been satisfactorily resolved. In some instances, these claims remain outstanding beyond their statutory limit on collection in which case they are written off. The gain on derecognition of claims during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 amounted to $115,424 resulting in a $579,221 net loss for the period. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 was $362,357, compared to $475,825 for the same period in 2019. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020 the rate of interest being accrued on certain delinquent vendor claims was reexamined and reduced to a rate more likely to apply to the claims upon resolution. This interest accrual reduction of approximately 25% resulted in a cumulative savings of $143,312 in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity is a measure of an entitys ability to secure enough cash to meet its contractual and operating needs as they arise. We have funded our operations and satisfied our capital requirements through the issuance of convertible debt during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019. We do not anticipate generating sufficient net positive cash flows from our operations to fund the next twelve months. We had a working capital deficit of $10,260,900 at September 30, 2020. Cash was $2,316 at September 30, 2020, as compared to cash of $1,945 at December 31, 2019. Our cash reserves will not be sufficient to meet our operational needs and thus, we need to raise additional capital to pay for our operational expenses and provide for capital expenditures. Our basic operational expenses are currently estimated at approximately $20,000 per month. Above the basic operational expenses, we estimate that we need approximately $10,000,000 to begin limited toll milling operations. If we are not able to raise additional working capital, we may have to cease operations altogether. Recent Financings During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, a related party advanced $190,665 which it used to pay directly, on the Companys behalf, to reduce certain accounts payable and assist with operating expenses. The advance was made by Granite Peak Resources, LLC (GPR), a related party which intends to convert the advance into a convertible promissory note. Additionally, $106,558 was provided by the exercise of options and warrants in May and August, 2020 at a reduced price of $0.023 per share providing $106,558 for operations. As the options and warrants exercised in August 2020 were modified as to exercise date, their modification resulted in a combined loss of $115,722 . On March 16, 2020 the Company executed a Line of Credit (LOC) with GPR, a related party, evidenced by a convertible promissory note. The LOC is for up to $2,500,000, matures over three years, bears interest at 10% per annum, is convertible into shares of the Companys common stock at a per share price of $0.04, and will be secured by the real and personal property GPR already has under lien and pledge. The LOC is for funding operating expenses critical to the Companys redirection and all requests for funds may be approved or disapproved in GPRs sole discretion. 14 Going Concern The condensed consolidated financial statements contained in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company has accumulated losses from inception through the period ended September 30, 2020 of $104,441,348 and a working capital deficit of $10,260,900 as well as negative cash flows from operating activities. Presently, the Company does not have sufficient cash resources to meet its debt obligations in the twelve months following the date of this filing. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. Management is in the process of evaluating various financing alternatives to finance its capital requirements, as well as for general and administrative expenses. These alternatives include raising funds through public or private equity markets and either through institutional or retail investors. Although there is no assurance that the Company will be successful with its fund-raising initiatives, management believes that the Company will be able to secure the necessary financing as a result of ongoing financing discussions with third party investors and existing shareholders. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The Companys continuation as a going concern is dependent on its ability to obtain additional financing as may be required and ultimately to attain profitability. If the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity, the percentage ownership of current shareholders could be reduced, and such securities might have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights, preferences and privileges of the Companys common stock. Additional financing may not be available upon acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to take advantage of prospective business endeavors or opportunities, which could significantly and materially restrict its future plans for developing its business and achieving commercial revenues. If the Company is unable to obtain the necessary capital, the Company may have to cease operations. Working Capital Deficiency September 30, 2020 December 31, 2019 Current assets $ 37,764 $ 1,945 Current liabilities 10,298,664 9,905,904 Working capital deficiency $ (10,260,900 ) $ (9,903,959 ) The balance and components of current assets are fairly consistent between periods. The increase in current liabilities is primarily due to accrual of interest on settlement of lawsuits and notes due related parties. Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (106,187 ) $ 1,644 Net cash provided by financing activities 106,558 --- Increase (Decrease) in cash $ 371 $ 1,644 Operating Activities Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities was $(106,187) and $1,644, during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 cash was provided by operating activities primarily due to the significant reductions in legal and accounting services and normal office expenses as a result of lack of funding. Financing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities was $106,558, primarily due to the exercise of stock options and warrants. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by financing activities was $-0-. 15 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we did not engage in any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in item 303(a)(4) of the SECs Regulation S-K. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material impact on our business, revenues or operating results during the periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to our financial statements included herein for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and in the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. We believe that the accounting policies below are critical for one to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of Long-lived Assets We review our property and mining and mineral rights subject to amortization and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset class may not be recoverable. Indicators of potential impairment include: an adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; an adverse change in the extent or manner in which the asset is used or is expected to be used, or in its physical condition; and current or forecasted operating or cash flow losses that demonstrate continuing losses associated with the use of the asset. If indicators of impairment are present, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. If the expected cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, then the asset is considered to be impaired and its carrying value is written down to fair value, based on the related estimated discounted cash flows. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the company evaluated that the carrying value of our mining and mineral assets, while not impaired, should be combined as they are inseparable and depend upon each other in value creation. See Note 3. There were no impairment charges in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Recent Accounting Standards In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods for public business entities beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 January 1, 2018, and as there have been no revenues to date, the adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations, and no transition method was necessary upon adoption. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term. Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease. Costs of an operating lease will continue to be recognized as a single operating expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Costs for a financing lease will be disaggregated and recognized as both an operating expense (for the amortization of the right-of-use asset) and interest expense (for interest on the lease liability). This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019 and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted this standard during 2018, but as the Company does not have any significant leases, it does not expect it to have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations. During the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and through the date of this filing, there were several new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Each of these pronouncements, as applicable, has been or will be adopted by the Company. Management does not believe the adoption of any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 16