ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Wealthbridge Acquisition Limited. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the sponsor refer to Oriental Holdings Limited. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands on May 2, 2018 and formed for the purpose of entering into a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, recapitalization, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Units, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Proposed Business Combination On October 28, 2019, we entered into a share exchange agreement (as may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the Share Exchange Agreement) with Scienjoy, Lavacano Holdings Limited (Lavacano), WBY Entertainment Holdings Ltd. (WBY, together with Lavacano, the Sellers, and each Seller). Upon the closing of the transactions contemplated in the Share Exchange Agreement, we will acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding securities of Scienjoy, in exchange for approximately 16.4 million ordinary shares, of which 1.64 million ordinary shares are to be issued and held in escrow to satisfy any indemnification obligations of the Sellers. The Sellers are also entitled to receive an additional 3,000,000 ordinary shares of Wealthbridge at the closing because Scienjoys net income before tax for the year ended December 31, 2019 is RMB 156,540,470, which is greater than the Earnout 1 Target (as defined in the Share Exchange Agreement). Additionally, the Sellers may be entitled to receive additional earnout shares as follows: (1) if Scienjoys net income before tax for the year ended December 31, 2020 is greater than or equal to either US$28,300,000 or RMB 190,000,000, the Sellers will be entitled to receive 3,000,000 ordinary shares; and (2) if Scienjoys net income before tax for the year ended December 31, 2021 is greater than or equal to either US$35,000,000 or RMB 235,000,000, the Sellers will be entitled to receive 3,000,000 ordinary shares. Notwithstanding the net income before tax achieved by the post-transaction company for any period, the Sellers will receive (i) 3,000,000 earnout shares if the share price of the Company is higher than $20.00 for any sixty days in any period of ninety consecutive trading days between the 13th month and 24th month following the Closing, and (ii) 3,000,000 earnout shares if the share price of the Company is higher than $25.00 for any sixty days in any period of ninety consecutive trading between the 25th month and 36th month following the Closing. 16 On January 28, 2020, we issued a $575,000 Note to Scienjoy, pursuant to which such amount was deposited into our Trust Account in order to extend the amount of time we have available to complete a Business Combination from February 8, 2020 to May 8, 2020. The Note is non-interest bearing and is payable upon the closing of a Business Combination. In addition, the Note may be converted, at the lenders discretion, into additional Private Units at a price of $10.00 per unit. On May 5, 2020, the Company held its meeting of the shareholders, pursuant to which the shareholders voted to adopt the Share Exchange Agreement and thereby approve the Business Combination contemplated under the Share Exchange Agreement. The outbreak of the COVID-19 coronavirus has resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected the economies and financial markets worldwide. The extent to which COVID-19 impacts the Acquisition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19 and the actions to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, among others. We may be unable to complete the Acquisition or another business combination if continued concerns relating to COVID-19 restrict travel and limit the ability to have meetings with potential investors, or if the target companys personnel, vendors and services providers are unavailable to negotiate and consummate a transaction in a timely manner. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to March 31, 2020 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and activities in connection with the potential acquisition of Scienjoy. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We are incurring expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, we had a net loss of $103,166, which consisted of operating costs of $285,035, offset by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $177,418 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $4,451. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had net income of $31,047, which consisted of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $178,921 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $2,184, offset by operating costs of $150,058. Liquidity and Capital Resources On February 8, 2019, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 5,000,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $50,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 247,500 Private Units to our Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $2,475,000. On February 20, 2019, in connection with the underwriters exercise of their over-allotment option in full, we consummated the sale of an additional 750,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $7,500,000. In addition, we also consummated the sale of an additional 22,500 Private Units at $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $225,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Units, a total of $57,500,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $4,415,225 in Initial Public Offering related costs, including $1,725,000 of underwriting fees, $2,012,500 of deferred underwriting fees and $677,725 of other costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $252,001. Net loss of $103,166 included interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $177,418 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $4,451. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $33,034 of cash for operating activities. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities was $139,102. Net income of $31,047 was offset by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $178,921 and an unrealized gain on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $2,184. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $10,956 of cash for operating activities. At March 31, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $59,345,007 (including approximately $1,270,000 of interest income and unrealized gains). We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account to acquire a target business or businesses and to pay our expenses relating thereto. To the extent that our share capital is used in whole or in part as consideration to effect our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business. Such working capital funds could be used in a variety of ways including continuing or expanding the target business operations, for strategic acquisitions and for marketing, research and development of existing or new products. Such funds could also be used to repay any operating expenses or finders fees which we had incurred prior to the completion of our initial Business Combination if the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account were insufficient to cover such expenses. 17 At March 31, 2020, we had cash of $1,008 held outside the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an initial Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to loan us funds. If we complete our initial Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that our initial Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Such loans would be evidenced by promissory notes. Up to $500,000 of notes may be convertible into Private Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business prior to our initial Business Combination. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating an initial Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our initial Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. We have a promissory note with Kenn Nice Communications Limited, pursuant to which we can borrow up to an aggregate amount of $1,200,000. The promissory note is non-interest bearing, unsecured and due upon the consummation of a Business Combination. As of March 31, 2020, there was $707,040 outstanding under the promissory note. Off-balance sheet financing arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2020. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities other than an agreement to pay our Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for general and administrative services, including office space, utilities and administrative services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on February 5, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of 3.50% of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, or $2,012,500. On April 8, 2020, we amended our agreement with the underwriters such that, upon consummation of the Business Combination, in lieu of the deferred fee, the underwriter will receive shares equal to the total amount of the deferred underwriting commission of $2,012,500 divided by the effective conversion price. The effective conversion price is defined as the volume weighted average price of the right to receive one-tenth of one of our ordinary shares from the date of the mailing of the proxy to the final shareholder meeting date, multiplied by a factor of 10. The fee will only be paid if we consummate a Business Combination. In addition, we entered into a financial advisory agreement with Chardan on April 9, 2019, according to which Chardan is engaged to provide us financial advisory services in connection with the identification of and negotiation with potential targets, assistance with due diligence, marketing, financial analyses and investor relations. The advisory fee will be paid in the form of newly issued shares of the combined company at the closing of the Scienjoy Business Combination and is based on the aggregate value of the Business Transaction equal to two percent (2%) of the amount up to $175 million plus one percent (1.0%) of the aggregate value above $175 million. If such transaction occurs through multiple closings, then pro rata portion of such fees will be paid upon each closing. Therefore, in the event a Business Combination is consummated, we will be obligated to pay Chardan a fee of $3,690,000 at the closing in the form of 369,000 newly issued shares of the combined company. 18 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Ordinary shares subject to redemption We account for our ordinary shares subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net loss per ordinary share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption which are not currently redeemable and are not redeemable at fair value, have been excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per ordinary share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to ordinary shares subject to redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.