Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsQuantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for a discussion of DCP Midstreams exposure to changes in commodity prices. Competition In gathering, processing, transporting and storing natural gas, as well as producing, marketing and transporting NGLs, DCP Midstream competes with major integrated oil companies, major interstate and intrastate pipelines, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, NGL transporters and brokers, marketers and distributors of natural gas supplies. Competition for natural gas supplies is based mostly on the reputation, efficiency and reliability of operations, the availability of gathering and transportation to high-demand markets, pricing arrangements offered by the gatherer/processor and the ability of the gatherer/processor to obtain a satisfactory price for the producers residue natural gas and extracted NGLs. Competition for sales to customers is based mostly upon reliability, services offered and the prices of delivered natural gas and NGLs. Customers and Contracts DCP Midstream sells a portion of its NGLs to Phillips 66 and Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem). In addition, DCP Midstream purchases NGLs from CPChem. Approximately 40% of its NGL production is committed to Phillips 66 and CPChem under an existing 15-year contract, which expires in December 2014. Should the contract not be renegotiated or renewed, it provides for a wind-down period through January 2019. The NGL contract also grants Phillips 66 the right to purchase, at index-based prices, certain quantities of NGLs produced at processing plants that are acquired and/or constructed by DCP Midstream in the future in various counties in the Mid-Continent and Permian Basin regions, and the Austin Chalk area. DCP Midstream anticipates continuing to purchase and sell commodities with ConocoPhillips as a third-party and with Phillips 66 and CPChem as related parties, in the ordinary course of business. 22 Table of Contents The residual natural gas, primarily methane, that results from processing raw natural gas is sold at market-based prices to marketers and end-users, including large industrial companies, natural gas distribution companies and electric utilities. DCP Midstream purchases or takes custody of substantially all of its raw natural gas from producers, principally under the following types of contractual arrangements. More than 70% of the volumes of gas that are gathered and processed are under percentage-of-proceeds contracts. Percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements . In general, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from producers at the wellhead or other receipt points, gathers the wellhead natural gas through its gathering system, treats and processes it, and then sells the residue natural gas and NGLs based on index prices from published index market prices. DCP Midstream remits to the producers either an agreed-upon percentage of the actual proceeds received from the sale of the residue natural gas and NGLs, or an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on index-related prices for natural gas and NGLs regardless of the actual amount of sales proceeds which DCP Midstream receives. Certain of these arrangements may also result in the producer retaining title to all or a portion of the residue natural gas and/or the NGLs in lieu of DCP Midstream returning sales proceeds to the producer. Additionally, these arrangements may include fee-based components. DCP Midstreams revenues from percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements are directly related to the prices of natural gas, crude oil and/or NGLs. Fee-based arrangements. DCP Midstream receives a fee or fees for one or more of the following services: gathering, processing, compressing, treating, storing or transporting natural gas, and fractionating, storing and transporting NGLs. Fee-based arrangements include natural gas arrangements pursuant to which DCP Midstream obtains natural gas at the wellhead or other receipt points at an index-related price at the delivery point less a specified amount, generally the same as the fees it would otherwise charge for gathering the natural gas from the wellhead location to the delivery point. The revenue DCP Midstream earns from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas or NGLs that flow through its systems and is not dependent on commodity prices. However, to the extent that a sustained decline in commodity prices results in a decline in volumes, DCP Midstreams revenues from these arrangements could be reduced. Keep-whole and wellhead purchase arrangements. DCP Midstream gathers raw natural gas from producers for processing, the NGLs and condensate are sold and the residue natural gas is returned to the producer with a Btu content equivalent to the Btu content of the natural gas gathered. This arrangement keeps the producer whole to the thermal value of the natural gas received. Under the terms of a wellhead purchase contract, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from the producer at the wellhead or defined receipt point for processing and markets the resulting NGLs and residue natural gas at market prices. DCP Midstream is exposed to the difference between the value of the NGLs extracted from processing and the value of the Btu-equivalent of the residue natural gas, or frac spread. Under these types of contracts, DCP Midstream benefits in periods when NGL prices are higher relative to natural gas prices. As defined by the terms of the above arrangements, DCP Midstream also sells condensate, which is generally similar to crude oil and is produced in association with natural gas gathering and processing. The revenues that DCP Midstream earns from the sale of condensate correlate directly with crude oil prices. Supplies and Raw Materials We purchase a variety of manufactured equipment and materials for use in operations and expansion projects. The primary equipment and materials utilized in operations and project execution processes are steel pipe, compression engines, pumps, valves, fittings, polyethylene plastic pipe, gas meters and other consumables. We operate a North American supply chain management network with employees dedicated to this function in the United States and Canada. Our supply chain management group uses economies-of-scale to maximize the efficiency of supply networks where applicable. The price of equipment and materials may vary however, perhaps substantially, from year to year. DCP Midstream performs its own supply chain management function. 23 Table of Contents Regulations Most of our U.S. gas transmission, crude oil pipeline and storage operations are regulated by the FERC. The FERC regulates natural gas transmission in U.S. interstate commerce including the establishment of rates for services. The FERC also regulates the construction of U.S. interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, including the extension, enlargement and abandonment of facilities. In addition, certain operations are subject to oversight by state regulatory commissions. The FERC may propose and implement new rules and regulations affecting interstate natural gas transmission and storage companies, which remain subject to the FERCs jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect certain transmission of gas by intrastate pipelines. Our Spectra Energy Partners and DCP Midstream operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local environmental agencies. See Environmental Matters for a discussion of environmental regulation. Our U.S. interstate natural gas pipelines and certain of DCP Midstreams gathering and transmission pipelines are also subject to the regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) concerning pipeline safety. Express-Platte pipeline system rates and tariffs are subject to regulation by the NEB in Canada and the FERC in the United States. In addition, the Platte pipeline also operates as an intrastate pipeline in Wyoming and is subject to jurisdiction by the Wyoming Public Service Commission. The intrastate natural gas and NGL pipelines owned by us and DCP Midstream are subject to state regulation. To the extent that the natural gas intrastate pipelines that transport natural gas in interstate commerce provide services under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, they are subject to FERC regulation. DCP Midstreams interstate natural gas pipeline operations are also subject to regulation by the FERC. The natural gas gathering and processing activities of DCP Midstream are not subject to FERC regulation. Our Canadian operations are governed by various federal and provincial agencies with respect to pipeline safety, including the NEB and the Transportation Safety Board, the British Columbia Oil and Gas Commission, the Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board and the Ontario Technical Standards and Safety Authority. Our Canadian natural gas transmission and distribution operations and approximately two-thirds of the storage operations in Canada, are subject to regulation by the NEB or the provincial agencies in Canada, such as the OEB. These agencies have jurisdiction similar to the FERC for regulating rates, the terms and conditions of service, the construction of additional facilities and acquisitions. Our BC Field Services business in western Canada is regulated by the NEB pursuant to a framework for light-handed regulation under which the NEB acts on a complaints-basis for rates associated with that business. Similarly, the rates charged by our Canadian Midstream operations for gathering and processing services in western Canada are regulated on a complaints-basis by applicable provincial regulators. Our Empress NGL business is not under any form of rate regulation. Environmental Matters We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as Canadian federal and provincial regulations, regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S.-based operations include, but are not limited to: The Clean Air Act (CAA) and the 1990 amendments to the CAA, as well as state laws and regulations affecting air emissions (including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards), which may limit new sources of air emissions. Our natural gas processing, transmission and storage assets are considered sources of air emissions and are thereby subject to the CAA. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources, like us, are responsible for obtaining permits for existing and new sources of air emissions and for annual compliance and reporting. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act), which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment. The Oil Pollution Act (OPA) amended parts of the Clean Water Act and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills. The OPA imposes certain spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements. Although we are primarily a natural gas business, the OPA affects our business primarily because of the presence of liquid hydrocarbons (condensate) in our offshore pipelines. 24 Table of Contents The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), which imposes liability for remediation costs associated with environmentally contaminated sites. Under CERCLA, any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past owned or operated a disposal site can be held liable and required to share in remediation costs, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site. Because of the geographical extent of our operations, we have disposed of waste at many different sites and therefore have CERCLA liabilities. The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime. As part of our business, we generate solid waste within the scope of these regulations and therefore must comply with such regulations. The Toxic Substances Control Act, which requires that polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contaminated materials be managed in accordance with a comprehensive regulatory regime. Because of the historical use of lubricating oils containing PCBs, the internal surfaces of some of our pipeline systems are contaminated with PCBs, and liquids and other materials removed from these pipelines must be managed in compliance with such regulations. The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental effects in their decisions, including site approvals. Many of our capital projects require federal agency review, and therefore the environmental effects of proposed projects are a factor in determining whether we will be permitted to complete proposed projects. Environmental laws and regulations affecting our Canadian-based operations include, but are not limited to: The Fisheries Act (Canada), which regulates activities near any body of water in Canada. The Environmental Management Act (British Columbia), the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act (Alberta) and the Environmental Protection Act (Ontario) are provincial laws governing various aspects, including permitting and site remediation obligations, of our facilities and operations in those provinces. The Canadian Environmental Protection Act, which, among other things, requires the reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations in Canada. Additional regulations to be promulgated under this Act may require the reduction of GHGs, nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds and particulate matter. The Alberta Climate Change and Emissions Management Act which, as of 2007, required certain facilities to meet reductions in emission intensity. The Act was applicable to our Empress facility in Alberta beginning in 2008. The Alberta Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act which governing various aspects, including permitting and site remediation obligations. For more information on environmental matters, including possible liability and capital costs, see Part II.