Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsQuantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for a discussion of DCP Midstreams exposure to changes in commodity prices. Competition In gathering, processing and storing natural gas, as well as producing, marketing and transporting natural gas and NGLs, DCP Midstream competes with major integrated oil companies, major interstate and intrastate pipelines, national and local natural gas gatherers and processors, NGL transporters and brokers, marketers and distributors of natural gas supplies. Competition for natural gas supplies is based mostly on the reputation, efficiency and reliability of operations, the availability of gathering and transportation to high-demand markets, the pricing arrangement offered by the gatherer/processor and the ability of the gatherer/processor to obtain a satisfactory price for the producers residue gas and extracted NGLs. Competition for sales to customers is based mostly upon reliability, services offered and the prices of delivered natural gas and NGLs. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Customers and Contracts DCP Midstream sells NGLs to a variety of customers ranging from large, multi-national petrochemical and refining companies to small regional retail propane distributors. Substantially all of DCP Midstreams NGL sales are made at market-based prices, including approximately 40% of its NGL production that is committed to ConocoPhillips and its affiliate, Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC, under existing contracts that have primary terms that are effective until January 1, 2015. Should the contract not be renegotiated or renewed, it provides for a five year ratable wind-down period through 2020. In 2011, sales to ConocoPhillips and Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC, combined, represented approximately 22% of DCP Midstreams consolidated revenues. The residual natural gas, primarily methane, that results from processing raw natural gas is sold at market-based prices to marketers and end-users. End-users include large industrial companies, natural gas distribution companies and electric utilities. DCP Midstream purchases or takes custody of substantially all of its raw natural gas from producers, principally under the following types of contractual arrangements. More than 70% of volumes of gas that are gathered and processed are under percentage-of-proceeds contracts. Percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements . In general, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from producers at the wellhead or other receipt points, treats and processes it, and then sells the residue natural gas and NGLs based on index prices from published index market prices. DCP Midstream remits to the producers either an agreed-upon percentage of the actual proceeds received from the sale of the residue natural gas and NGLs, or an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on index related prices for the natural gas and the NGLs, regardless of the actual amount of proceeds which DCP Midstream receives. Certain of these arrangements may also result in DCP Midstream returning all or a portion of the residue natural gas and/or the NGLs to the producer in lieu of returning sales proceeds. DCP Midstreams revenues from these arrangements relate directly with the prices of natural gas, crude oil and NGLs. Fee-based arrangements. DCP Midstream receives a fee or fees for one or more of the following services: gathering, processing, compressing, treating or transporting natural gas. Fee-based arrangements include natural gas purchase arrangements pursuant to which DCP Midstream purchases natural gas at the wellhead or other receipt points at an index related price at the delivery point less a specified amount, generally the same as the fees it would otherwise charge for gathering of natural gas from the wellhead location to the delivery point. The revenue DCP Midstream earns from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas that flows through its systems and is not directly dependent on commodity prices. To the extent that a sustained decline in commodity prices results in a decline in volumes, however, DCP Midstreams revenues from these arrangements could be reduced. Keep-whole and wellhead purchase arrangement. DCP Midstream gathers raw natural gas from producers for processing, markets the NGLs and returns to the producer residual natural gas with a Btu content equivalent to the Btu content of the natural gas gathered. Under the terms of a wellhead purchase contract, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from the producer at the wellhead or defined receipt point for processing and markets the resulting NGLs and residue gas at market prices. DCP Midstream is exposed to the difference between the value of the NGLs extracted from processing and the value of the Btu-equivalent of the residue natural gas, or frac-spread. DCP Midstream benefits in periods when NGL prices are higher relative to natural gas prices when that frac spread exceeds its operating costs. As defined by the terms of the above arrangements, DCP Midstream also sells condensate, which is generally similar to crude oil and is produced in association with natural gas gathering and processing. The revenues that DCP Midstream earns from the sale of condensate correlate directly with crude oil prices. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Supplies and Raw Materials We purchase a variety of manufactured equipment and materials for use in operations and expansion projects. The primary equipment and materials utilized in operations and project execution processes are steel pipe, compression engines, valves, fittings, polyethylene plastic pipe, gas meters and other consumables. We operate a North American supply chain management network with employees dedicated to this function in the United States and Canada. Our supply chain management group uses economies-of-scale to maximize the efficiency of supply networks where applicable. DCP Midstream performs its own supply chain management function. There can be no assurance that the ability to obtain sufficient equipment and materials will not be adversely affected by unforeseen developments. In addition, the price of equipment and materials may vary, perhaps substantially, from year to year. Regulations Most of our U.S. gas transmission pipeline and storage operations are regulated by the FERC. The FERC regulates natural gas transportation in U.S. interstate commerce including the establishment of rates for services. The FERC also regulates the construction of U.S. interstate pipelines and storage facilities, including the extension, enlargement and abandonment of facilities. In addition, certain operations are subject to oversight by state regulatory commissions. The FERC may propose and implement new rules and regulations affecting interstate natural gas transmission and storage companies, which remain subject to the FERCs jurisdiction. These initiatives may also affect certain transportation of gas by intrastate pipelines. Our U.S. Transmission and DCP Midstream operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various other federal, state and local environmental agencies. See Environmental Matters for a discussion of environmental regulation. Our U.S. interstate natural gas pipelines and certain of DCP Midstreams gathering and transmission pipelines are also subject to the regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation concerning pipeline safety. Our Canadian operations are governed by various federal and provincial agencies with respect to pipeline safety, including the NEB and the Transportation Safety Board, the British Columbia Oil and Gas Commission, the Alberta Energy Resources Conservation Board and the Ontario Technical Standards and Safety Authority. The natural gas transmission and distribution, and approximately two-thirds of the storage operations in Canada are subject to regulation by the NEB or the provincial agencies in Canada, such as the OEB. These agencies have jurisdiction similar to the FERC for regulating rates, the terms and conditions of service, the construction of additional facilities and acquisitions. Our BC Field Services business in western Canada is regulated by the NEB pursuant to a framework for light-handed regulation under which the NEB acts on a complaints-basis for rates associated with that business. Similarly, the rates charged by our Canadian Midstream operations for gathering and processing services in western Canada are regulated on a complaints-basis by applicable provincial regulators. Our Empress NGL businesses are not under any form of rate regulation. The intrastate natural gas and NGL pipelines owned by DCP Midstream are subject to state regulation. To the extent that the natural gas intrastate pipelines that transport natural gas in interstate commerce provide services under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, they are subject to FERC regulation. DCP Midstreams interstate natural gas pipeline operations are also subject to regulation by the FERC. The natural gas gathering and processing activities of DCP Midstream are not subject to FERC regulation. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Environmental Matters We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as Canadian federal and provincial regulations, regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S.-based operations include, but are not limited to: The Clean Air Act (CAA) and the 1990 amendments to the CAA, as well as state laws and regulations affecting air emissions (including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards), which may limit new sources of air emissions. Our natural gas processing, transmission and storage assets are considered sources of air emissions and are thereby subject to the CAA. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources, like us, are responsible for obtaining permits for existing and new sources of air emissions and for annual compliance and reporting. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act), which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment. The Oil Pollution Act (OPA) was enacted in 1990 and amends parts of the Clean Water Act and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of and response to oil spills. The OPA imposes certain spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements. Although we are primarily a natural gas business, the OPA affects our business primarily because of the presence of liquid hydrocarbons (condensate) in our offshore pipelines. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), which imposes liability for remediation costs associated with environmentally contaminated sites. Under CERCLA, any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past owned or operated a disposal site can be held liable and required to share in remediation costs, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site. Because of the geographical extent of our operations, we have disposed of waste at many different sites and therefore have CERCLA liabilities. The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime. As part of our business, we generate solid waste within the scope of these regulations and therefore must comply with such regulations. The Toxic Substances Control Act, which requires that polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contaminated materials be managed in accordance with a comprehensive regulatory regime. Because of the historical use of lubricating oils containing PCBs, the internal surfaces of some of our pipeline systems are contaminated with PCBs, and liquids and other materials removed from these pipelines must be managed in compliance with such regulations. The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental effects in their decisions, including site approvals. Many of our capital projects require federal agency review, and therefore the environmental effects of proposed projects are a factor in determining whether we will be permitted to complete proposed projects. Environmental laws and regulations affecting our Canadian-based operations include, but are not limited to: The Fisheries Act (Canada), which regulates activities near any body of water in Canada. The Environmental Management Act (British Columbia), the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act (Alberta) and the Environmental Protection Act (Ontario) are provincial laws governing various aspects, including permitting and site remediation obligations, of our facilities and operations in those provinces. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Canadian Environmental Protection Act, pursuant to which, among other things, requires the reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations in Canada. Additional regulations to be promulgated under this Act may require the reduction of GHGs, nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds and particulate matter. The Alberta Climate Change and Emissions Management Act which required certain facilities to meet reductions in emission intensity starting in 2007. The Act was applicable to our Empress facility in Alberta beginning in 2008. For more information on environmental matters, including possible liability and capital costs, see Part II.