Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and are based on management's current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by such statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond our control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the uncertainty in global economic conditions as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news; the impact of the variable demand and adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans. Additional risks and uncertainties are set forth and are discussed in more detail in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of electronic data storage solutions. Our principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs. Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces. Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, high quality and cost effectiveness. In addition to HDDs, we produce a broad range of electronic data storage products including solid state hybrid drives ("SSHD") and solid state drives ("SSD"). Our products are designed for enterprise servers and storage systems in mission critical and nearline applications; client compute applications, where our products are designed primarily for desktop and mobile computing; and client non-compute applications, where our products are designed for a wide variety of end user devices such as digital video recorders ("DVRs"), personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and digital media systems. We continue to make strategic investments in order to expand our storage solutions, enter new market adjacencies, and expand our technical expertise. As a result of recent acquisitions, our product and solution portfolio for the enterprise data storage industry includes storage enclosures, integrated application platforms and high performance computing ("HPC") data storage solutions. Our storage subsystems support a range of high-speed interconnect technologies to meet demanding cost and performance specifications. Our modular subsystem architecture allows us to support many segments within the networked storage market by enabling different specifications of storage subsystem designs to be created from a standard set of interlocking technology modules. In addition to our data storage products and subsystems, we provide data storage services for small to medium-sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions. Industry Overview Electronic Data Storage Industry The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies that manufacture components or subcomponents designed for electronic data storage devices and companies that provide storage solutions, software and services for enterprise cloud, big data and computing platforms. Markets The principal markets served by the electronic data storage industry are: Enterprise Storage. We define enterprise storage as those solutions which are designed for mission critical and nearline applications. Mission critical applications are defined as those that are vital to the operation of large-scale enterprise work loads, requiring high performance and high reliability storage solutions. We expect the market for mission critical enterprise storage solutions to continue to be driven by enterprises utilizing dedicated storage area networks in an effort to reduce network complexity and increase energy savings. We believe that this will continue to drive demand for more energy efficient, smaller form factor solutions. These solutions are comprised principally of high performance enterprise class disk drives with sophisticated firmware and communications technologies. Nearline applications are defined as those which require high capacity and energy efficient storage solutions. We expect such applications, which include storage for cloud computing, content delivery and backup services, will continue to grow and drive demand for solutions designed with these attributes. With the increased requirements for storage driven by the creation and consumption of media-rich digital 4 Table of Contents content, we expect the increased petabyte demand will require further build-out of datacenters by cloud service providers and other enterprises which utilize high capacity nearline devices. Client Compute. We define client compute applications as solutions designed for desktop and mobile compute applications. We believe that the demand resulting from growing economies of certain countries and the continued proliferation of digital content will continue to drive demand for the client compute market. As the storage of digital content in the cloud becomes more prominent, some client compute applications require less built-in storage, and therefore alternative storage solutions are becoming more prevalent within the client compute market. Client Non-Compute. We define client non-compute applications as solutions designed for consumer electronic devices and disk drives used for external storage and network-attached storage ("NAS"). Disk drives designed for consumer electronic devices are primarily used in applications such as DVRs and surveillance systems that require a higher capacity, low cost-per-gigabyte storage solution. Disk drives for external and NAS devices are designed for purposes such as personal data backup and portable external storage, and to augment storage capacity in the consumer's current desktop, notebook, tablet or DVR disk drive capacities. Client non-compute applications also include devices designed to display digital media in the home theater. We believe the proliferation and personal creation of media-rich digital content will continue to create increasing consumer demand for higher capacity storage solutions. Participants in the electronic data storage industry include: Major subcomponent manufacturers. Companies that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic data storage devices or solutions include companies that supply spindle motors, heads and media, application specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") and glass substrates. Hardware storage solutions manufacturers. Companies that transform components into storage products include disk drive manufacturers and semiconductor storage manufacturers which include integrating flash memory into storage products such as SSDs. System integrators. Companies that bundle and package storage solutions into client compute, client non-compute or enterprise applications as well as enterprise storage solutions. Distributors that integrate storage hardware and software into end-user applications are also included in this category. Storage services. Companies that provide services and solutions related to the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic data. Demand for Electronic Data Storage The continued advancement of cloud, mobile and open source computing are driving the growth of digital content. Factors contributing to this growth are the increased: creation and sharing of all types of media-rich digital content, such as high-resolution photos, high definition video and movies, and music by consumers and large amounts of electronic data by enterprises; aggregation and distribution of digital content through services and other offerings such as Amazon, Facebook, GoPro, Instagram, iTunes, LinkedIn, Netflix, Pandora and YouTube; consumption of digital content through smart phones, tablets, DVRs, and gaming consoles; and protection of digital content through storage on backup devices and externally provided storage services. As a result of these factors, the nature and amount of content being created requires increasingly higher capacity storage in order to store, manage, distribute, utilize and backup such content. This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for electronic data storage solutions which we believe will continue to grow in developed countries as well as in emerging economies. 5 Table of Contents The amounts of data created as well as where and how data is stored continues to evolve with the proliferation of mobile devices, the growth of cloud computing, and the evolving Internet of Things. In addition, the economics of storage infrastructure is also evolving with the utilization of public and private hyper-scale storage and open-source solutions reducing the total cost of ownership of storage while increasing the speed and efficiency with which customers can leverage massive computing and storage power. Accordingly, we expect these trends will continue to create significant demand for electronic data storage solutions. Demand Trends for Disk Drives We believe that continued growth in digital content requires increasingly higher storage capacity in order to store, aggregate, host, distribute, manage, backup and use such content. We also believe that as architectures evolve to serve the growing commercial and consumer user base throughout the world, the manner which hard drives are delivered to market and utilized by our customers will evolve as well. We believe that in the foreseeable future the traditional enterprise and client compute markets that require high capacity storage solutions, as well as the data intensive client non-compute markets, will continue to be best served by hard disk drives due to the industry's ability to deliver cost effective, reliable and energy efficient mass storage devices. Furthermore, the increased use of client non-compute devices that consume media-rich digital content streamed from the cloud increases the demand for high capacity disk drives in nearline applications. Industry Supply Balance From time to time the industry has experienced periods of imbalance between supply and demand. To the extent that the disk drive industry builds capacity based on expectations of demand that do not materialize, price erosion may become more pronounced. Conversely, during periods where demand exceeds supply, price erosion is generally muted. In early October 2011, floodwaters north of Bangkok, Thailand inundated many manufacturing industrial parks that contained a number of the factories supporting the HDD industry's supply chain. The HDD industry had concentrated a large portion of its supply chain participants within these industrial parks in an effort to reduce cost and improve logistics. As a result, the inundation of floodwaters into these industrial parks had caused the closure or suspension of production by a number of participants within the HDD supply chain. During the supply chain disruption in fiscal year 2012, we believe demand exceeded supply due to the impact from the flooding in Thailand, resulting in an increase in the average selling price ("ASP"). The industry's ability to manufacture and ship drives had substantially recovered as of the end of fiscal year 2012. In fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we believe the HDD industry's capacity to manufacture HDDs exceeded demand. However, following the impact of the flooding in Thailand and further industry consolidation in fiscal year 2012, the HDD industry has maintained improved pricing discipline resulting in benign price erosion in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. Our Business Disk Drive Technology The design and manufacturing of disk drives depends on highly advanced technology and manufacturing techniques and therefore requires high levels of research and development spending and capital equipment investments. Manufacturing our disk drives is a complex process that begins with the production of individual components and ends with a fully assembled disk drive. We design, fabricate and assemble a number of the most important components found in our disk drives, including read/write heads and recording media. Our design and manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that are used to produce various disk drive products that serve multiple data storage applications and markets. 6 Table of Contents Our core technology platforms are focused around the areal density of media and read/write head technologies. Using an integrated platform design and manufacturing leverage approach allows us to deliver a portfolio of disk drive products to service a wide range of electronic data storage applications and a wide range of industries. Disk drives that we manufacture are commonly differentiated by the following key characteristics: storage capacity, commonly expressed in gigabytes (GB) or terabytes (TB), which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disk drive; spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data; interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disk drive and the computer controller; average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface; data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disk drive; input/output operations per second (IOPS), commonly expressed in megabytes per second, which is the maximum number of reads and writes to a storage location; product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in annualized return rates; and energy efficiency, commonly measured by the power output necessary to operate the disk drive. Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the recording surface of a disk. The storage capacity of a disk drive is determined by the number of disks it contains as well as the areal density capability of these disks. We have been pursuing, and will continue to pursue, a number of technologies to increase areal densities across the entire range of our products for expanding disk drive capacities and reducing the number of disks and heads per drive to further reduce product costs. Manufacturing Vertically integrated hard drive manufacturers design and produce their own read/write heads and recording media, which are critical technologies for disk drives. This integrated approach enables manufacturers to lower costs and to improve the functionality of components so that they work together efficiently. We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the close interdependence of components for disk drives. Our manufacturing efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve our manufacturing efficiency and cost by: employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency; improving product quality and reliability and reducing costs; integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital requirements; coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research and development organization to rapidly achieve volume manufacturing; and leveraging the facilities we operate and the personnel we employ. A vertically integrated model, however, tends to have less flexibility when demand moderates as it exposes us to higher unit costs as capacity utilization is not optimized. 7 Table of Contents Due to the significant challenges posed by the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing efficiency and the continued demands on capital and research and development investments required to do so, the disk drive industry has undergone significant consolidation as disk drive manufacturers and component manufacturers merged with other companies or exited the industry. Components and Raw Materials Disk drives incorporate certain components, including a head disk assembly and a printed circuit board mounted to the head disk assembly, which are sealed inside a rigid base and top cover containing the recording components in a contamination controlled environment. We maintain a highly integrated approach to our business by designing and manufacturing a significant portion of the components we view as critical to our products, such as recording heads and media. Read/Write Heads. The function of the read/write head is to scan across the disk as it spins, magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of recording heads are extremely demanding and require state-of-the-art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and topographical structures are unique to the disk drive industry. We perform all primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at our facilities. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced read/write heads, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. Media. Information is written to the media, or disk, as it rotates at very high speeds past the read/write head. The media is made from non-magnetic material, usually aluminum alloy or glass, and is coated with a thin layer of magnetic material. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced finished media and aluminum substrates, the mix of which varies based on product mix, technology and our internal capacity levels. We purchase all of our glass substrates from third parties, which we use in the disk drives we make for mobile products. Printed Circuit Board Assemblies. The printed circuit board assemblies (PCBAs) are comprised of standard and custom ASICs and ancillary electronic control chips. The ASICs control the movement of data to and from the read/write heads and through the internal controller and interface, which communicates with the host computer. The ASICs and control chips form electronic circuitry that delivers instructions to a head positioning mechanism called an actuator to guide the heads to the selected track of a disk where the data is recorded or retrieved. Disk drive manufacturers use one or more industry standard interfaces such as serial advanced technology architecture (SATA); small computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI (SAS); or Fibre Channel (FC) to communicate to the host systems. We outsource to third parties the manufacture and assembly of the PCBAs used in our disk drives. We do not manufacture any ASICs, but we participate in their proprietary design. Head Disk Assembly. The head disk assembly consists of one or more disks attached to a spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the disks at a high constant speed around a hub. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly, similar in concept to that of a record player, fly extremely close to each disk surface and record data on and retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating disks. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on an E-shaped assembly (E-block) that is actuated by a voice-coil motor to allow the heads to move from track to track. The E-block and the recording media are mounted inside the head disk assembly. We purchase spindle motors from outside vendors and from time to time participate in the design of the motors that go into our products. We use a combination of internally manufactured and externally sourced head disk assemblies. Disk Drive Assembly. Following the completion of the head disk assembly, it is mated to the PCBA, and the completed unit goes through extensive defect mapping and testing prior to packaging and shipment. Disk drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities located in China and Thailand. We perform subassembly and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in China, 8 Table of Contents Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand and in the United States in Minnesota. In addition, third parties manufacture and assemble components and disk drive assemblies for us in various countries worldwide. Suppliers of Components and Industry Constraints. There are a limited number of independent suppliers of components, such as recording heads and media, available to disk drive manufacturers. Vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers, who manufacture their own components, are less dependent on external component suppliers than less vertically integrated disk drive manufacturers. Commodity and Other Manufacturing Costs. The production of disk drives requires rare earth elements, precious metals, scarce alloys and industrial commodities, which are subject to fluctuations in prices and the supply of which has at times been constrained. In addition to increased costs of components and commodities, volatility in fuel costs may also increase our costs related to commodities, manufacturing and freight. As a result, we may increase our use of ocean shipments to help offset any increase in freight costs. Products We offer a broad range of storage solutions, for the enterprise, datacenter, client compute and client non-compute applications. We offer more than one product within each product category and differentiate products on the basis of price, performance, form factor, capacity, interface, power consumption efficiency, security features like full disk encryption and instant encryption key replacement through our Instant Erase technology, and other customer integration requirements. Our industry is characterized by continuous and significant advances in technology which contribute to rapid product life cycles. We list our main current product offerings below. Enterprise Storage Enterprise Performance Family. Our 10,000 and 15,000 RPM Enterprise Performance Family disk drives feature increased throughput and improved energy efficiency, targeted at high random performance server application needs. Performance 10,000 RPM HDDs ship in storage capacities ranging from 300GB to 900GB, and our 15,000 RPM HDDs ship in storage capacities ranging from 146GB to 600GB. Enterprise Capacity HDD Family. Our Enterprise Capacity disk drives ship in a 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factor and in storage capacities of up to 6TB that clock in at 7,200 RPM speeds. These products are designed for bulk data storage and server environments that require high capacity, enterprise reliability, energy efficiency and integrated security, SATA and SAS interfaces. Enterprise Value HDD Family. Providing up to 3TB of SATA-based high capacity, 3.5-inch energy-efficient enterprise storage, the Enterprise Value hard disk drive offers low-cost bulk storage designed for vast amounts of unstructured data in the cloud. It features low power for energy efficient operations and ensures reliable operations in 24x7 multi-drive replicated environments. Seagate Terascale HDD Family. Available in capacities up to 4TB in a 3.5-inch enterprise-class SATA hard drive, the Terascale HDD is designed to provide data centers with the storage scalability they need to meet demands in low workload, 24x7 replicated environments. Seagate 1200 SSD. Available in capacities up to 800GB, the 1200 SSD features 12GB per second SAS, and delivers the speed and consistency needed for demanding enterprise storage and server applications. Client Compute Laptop and Mobile HDDs and SSHDs. Our family of laptop drives ship in a variety of form factors (5mm to 9.5mm drive height), capacities (250GB to 2TB) and technologies (HDD and SSHD) to support 9 Table of Contents mobile needs. Used in applications ranging from traditional laptops to tablets, our drives are built to address a range of performance needs and sizes for affordable, high capacity storage. Spinpoint SATA Mobile Family. Our Spinpoint M8 2.5-inch 5,400 RPM mobile computing disk drives come in storage capacities of up to 2TB and are marketed and sold under the Samsung Spinpoint brand name. Desktop HDD and SSHDs. Our 3.5-inch family of desktop drives ship in both traditional HDD and SSHD configurations and offer up to 4TB of capacity. Desktop drives are designed for applications such as personal computers, workstations and personal external storage devices. Client Non-Compute Video 3.5 and Video 2.5 HDDs. We sell our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch Video HDDs for use in video applications like DVR's and media centers. These disk drives are optimized for video streaming in always-on applications with capacities up to 4TB to support leading-edge digital entertainment. SV35 and Surveillance HDDs. Our surveillance drives are built to support the high-write workload of an always-on, always-recording video surveillance system. These surveillance optimized drives are built to support the growing needs of the surveillance market with support for multiple HD streams and capacities up to 4TB. NAS HDDs. Our NAS drives are built to support the performance and reliability demanded by NAS systems, and include NASWorks with custom-built error recovery controls, power settings, and vibration tolerance. We ship external backup storage solutions under our Backup Plus and Expansion product lines, as well as under the Samsung and LaCie brand names. These product lines utilize our 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch disk drives, which are available in capacities up to 5TB and 2TB, respectively. In addition, we ship the Wireless Plus wireless drive for use with secondary mobile devices utilizing 2.5-inch 500GB, 1TB and 2TB drives as well as Samsung Wireless utilizing a 2.5-inch 1.5TB drive. We also ship network attached storage (NAS) solutions under our Central, NAS, NAS Pro and Rackmount NAS product lines. These product lines utilize our 3.5-inch disk drives; our Central products are available in capacities up to 4TB, and our NAS products are available in capacities up to 40TB. Customers We sell our products to major OEMs, distributors and retailers. The following table summarizes our revenue by channel and by geography: Revenues by Channel (%) OEM 68 % 68 % 72 % Distributors 20 % 21 % 21 % Retail 12 % 11 % 7 % Revenues by Geography (%) (1) Americas 27 % 27 % 26 % EMEA 19 % 19 % 19 % Asia Pacific 54 % 54 % 55 % (1) Revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location. 10 Table of Contents OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times, product support obligations and other terms and conditions including sales programs offered to promote selected products. Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead-time, customers may defer most purchase orders without significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business needs. Our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements for the resale of our products. They typically furnish us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled accordingly. The agreements and related sales programs typically provide the distributors with limited right of return and price protection rights. In addition, we offer sales programs to distributors on a quarterly and periodic basis to promote the sale of selected products in the sales channel. Our retail channel consists of our branded storage products sold to retailers either by us directly or by our distributors. Retail sales made by us or our distributors typically require greater marketing support, sales incentives and price protection periods. In fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, Dell Inc. accounted for approximately 13%, 13% and 15% of consolidated revenue, respectively, while Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for approximately 13%, 10% and 14% of consolidated revenue, respectively. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers." Competition We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives used in the enterprise, client compute and client non-compute applications, but have in the past few years also competed with manufacturers of solid-state drives. The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive. Disk drive manufacturers not only compete for a limited number of major disk drive customers but also compete with other companies in the electronic data storage industry that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to differentiate among electronic data storage solutions manufacturers are storage capacity, product performance, product quality and reliability, price per unit and price per gigabyte, time-to-market and time-to-volume leadership, storage/retrieval access times, data transfer rates, form factor, product warranty and support capabilities, supply continuity and flexibility, power consumption, total cost of ownership, and brand. While different markets and customers place varying levels of emphasis on these factors, we believe that our products are competitive with respect to each of these factors in the markets that we currently address. Principal Disk Drive Competitors. Following further industry consolidation during fiscal year 2012, three disk drive companies remain: Seagate, selling the Seagate and Samsung brands; Western Digital Corporation, operating the Western Digital and Hitachi Global Storage Technologies subsidiaries; and Toshiba Corporation Other Competitors. We also are experiencing competition from companies that provide alternative storage technologies such as flash memory and SSDs used in mobile applications such as tablets, notebooks and lower capacity hand held devices in addition to SSDs used in enterprise applications for rapid processing and high volume transactions. Additionally, we may in the future face indirect competition from customers who from time to time evaluate whether to offer electronic data storage products that may compete with our products. 11 Table of Contents Price Erosion. Historically, our industry has been characterized by price declines for disk drive products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets ("like-for-like products"). Price declines for like-for-like products ("price erosion") have been more pronounced during periods of: economic contraction in which competitors may use discounted pricing to attempt to maintain or gain market share; few new product introductions when competitors have comparable or alternative product offerings; and industry supply exceeding demand. In fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we believe the HDD industry's capacity to manufacture HDDs exceeded demand. However, following industry consolidation during fiscal year 2012, the HDD industry has maintained improved pricing discipline resulting in benign price erosion in fiscal years 2013 and 2014. Disk drive manufacturers typically attempt to offset price erosion with an improved mix of disk drive products characterized by higher capacity, better performance and additional feature sets and/or product cost reductions. Product Life Cycles and Changing Technology. Success in our industry has been dependent to a large extent on the ability to balance the introduction and transition of new products with time-to-volume, performance, capacity and quality metrics at a competitive price, level of service and support that our customers expect. Generally those disk drive manufacturers that are able to introduce new products first benefit from improved product mix, favorable profit margins and less pricing pressure until comparable products are introduced. Changing technology also necessitates on-going investments in research and development, which may be difficult to recover due to rapid product life cycles and economic declines. Further, there is a continued need to successfully execute product transitions and new product introductions, as factors such as quality, reliability and manufacturing yields become of increasing competitive importance. Seasonality The disk drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. Research and Development We are committed to developing new component technologies, products and alternative storage technologies. Our research and development focus is designed to bring new products to market in high volume, with quality attributes that our customers expect, before our competitors. Part of our product development strategy is to leverage a design platform and/or subsystem within product families to serve different market needs. This platform strategy allows for more efficient resource utilization, leverages best design practices, reduces exposure to changes in demand, and allows for achievement of lower costs through purchasing economies. Our advanced technology integration effort focuses disk drive and component research on recording subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media, market-specific product technology and technology focused towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely availability of mature component technologies to our product development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. During fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, we had product development expenses of approximately $1,226 million, $1,133 million and $1,006 million, respectively, which represented 9%, 8% and 7% of our consolidated revenue, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Patents and Licenses As of June 27, 2014, we had 4,962 U.S. patents and 1,204 patents issued in various foreign jurisdictions as well as 1,236 U.S. and 1,112 foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes the electronic data storage industry, we believe that, in addition to patent protection, the improvement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets, protection of unpatented proprietary know-how and development of new products are also important to our business in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Accordingly, we intend to continue our efforts to broadly protect our intellectual property, including obtaining patents, where available, in connection with our research and development program. We have patent licenses with a number of companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual property practices, we may be engaged in negotiations with other major electronic data storage companies and component manufacturers with respect to patent licenses. The electronic data storage industry is characterized by significant litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Because of rapid technological development in the electronic data storage industry, some of our products have been, and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other claims are pending, which if resolved unfavorably to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information on these claims, see "