Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our planned investments in our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, beliefs, and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses 2024 and 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2024 and 2023. Discussions of 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022 have been omitted from this Annual Report but can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on March 7, 2024. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Company Overview We are a leading online visibility management SaaS platform, enabling companies globally to identify and reach the right audience in the right context and through the right channels. Since our founding in 2008, we have achieved a number of significant milestones, including: 2010: Surpassed 1,000 customers. 2015: Surpassed 10,000 customers. 2016: Launched Semrush Brand and Content Marketing tools. 2017: Completed our first round of financing and introduced collaboration features, including the ability to add users and share projects and received U.S. and UK search awards for the Best SEO Software Suite. 2018: Completed another round of financing led by Greycroft and e.ventures; surpassed $70 million in ARR; and launched Semrush Local and Semrush Intelligence. 2019: Surpassed 50,000 customers and $100 million in ARR. 2020: Received multiple awards, including Best SEO Software Suite and Best Search Software Tool according to the European Search Awards, our headcount grew to more than 900 employees globally. 2021: Completed our IPO and the Follow-On Offering and surpassed $200 million in ARR. 2022: Launched our first AI product powered by ChatGPT 1.0. 2023: Surpassed $300 million in ARR, 100,000 paying customers, and 1,000,000 active free customers. 2024: Surpassed $400 million in ARR and launched the general availability of the Enterprise SEO solution. 51 Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We regularly review a number of factors that have impacted, and we believe will continue to impact, our results of operations and growth. These factors include: Acquiring New Paying Customers We expect increasing demand for third-party online visibility software to accelerate adoption of our platform and products. Our recurring subscription model provides significant visibility into our future results and we believe Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) is the best indicator of the scale of our platform and products, while mitigating fluctuations due to seasonality and contract term. We define ARR as the total subscription revenue as of a given date that we expect to contractually receive over the subsequent 12 months from customers on an annualized basis, assuming no increases, reductions or cancellations. This ARR definition has been updated to simplify the explanation of our calculation around the treatment of monthly and longer-term contracts, and to be more consistent with other SaaS businesses, which we believe improves the ability for investors to compare our metric against other businesses. ARR for prior periods have not been adjusted to reflect this change as there is no variance between the two definitions for the periods presented. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had approximately 117,000 paying customers and 108,000 paying customers, respectively, accounting for $411.6 million and $337.1 million in ARR, respectively. Retaining and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customers We serve a diverse customer base across a variety of sizes and industries that is focused on maximizing their online visibility. We believe there is significant opportunity to expand within our existing customer base as customers often initially purchase our entry-level subscription, which offers lower usage limits and limited user licenses, as well as fewer features and functionality. We have demonstrated the ability to expand contract values with our existing customers as they use our products and recognize the critical nature of our platform and often seek premium offerings through incremental usage, features, add-ons, and additional user licenses. Our sales team is largely focused on driving account expansion by encouraging our customers to fully recognize the potential benefit from our comprehensive platform and the additional features and functionalities available in our Enterprise SEO solution. As a result, we have become increasingly efficient at acquiring customers who increase their spend with us over time. The chart below illustrates the subscription revenue from each customer cohort based on the year in which they became customers during the year presented. As indicated in the chart, our customer cohorts typically experience their lowest dollar-based net revenue retention rate during their second full year after becoming a customer, after which the dollar-based net revenue retention rate typically improves and we are able to drive increased spending across the remaining customers within the cohort. 52 We calculate our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of the end of a period by using (a) the revenue from our customers during the twelve month period ending one year prior to such period as the denominator and (b) the revenue from those same customers during the twelve months ending as of the end of such period as the numerator. In 2024, macro-economic pressure in the lower end of our market was a contributing factor to a slight decrease of our dollar-based net revenue retention rate from 107% to 106% as of December 31, 2023 and 2024, respectively. This calculation excludes revenue from new customers and any non-recurring revenue. We have successfully increased ARR per paying customer over time and believe this metric is an indicator of our ability to grow the long-term value of our platform and products. We expect ARR per paying customer to continue to increase as customers adopt our premium offerings and we continue to introduce new products and functionality. Our ARR per paying customer as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $3,522 and $3,125, respectively, in absolute unrounded amounts. We define ARR per paying customer as of a given date as ARR from our paying customers as of that date divided by the number of paying customers as of that date. We define the number of paying customers as the number of unique business and individual customers as of a given date. We define a business customer as all accounts that contain a common non-individual business email domain (e.g., all subscriptions with an email domain of @XYZ.com will be considered to be one customer), and an individual customer as an account that uses an individual non-business email domain. Sustaining Product and Technology Innovation We have a strong track record of developing new products that have high adoption rates among our paying customers. Our product development organization plays a critical role in continuing to enhance the effectiveness and differentiation of our technology in an evolving landscape and maximizing retention of our existing customers. We intend to continue investing in product development to improve our data assets, expand our products and enhance our technological capabilities. 53 Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we believe that non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP income from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin, each a non-GAAP financial measure, are useful in evaluating the performance of our business. Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from operations margin We define non-GAAP income from operations as GAAP income from operations, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs and other one-time expenses outside the ordinary course of business. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP income from operations divided by GAAP revenue. We believe investors may want to consider our results with and without the effects of these items in order to compare our financial performance with that of other companies that exclude such items and to compare our results to prior periods. Stock-based compensation. Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense allows for financial results that are more indicative of our operational performance and provide for a useful comparison of our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies because stock-based compensation expense varies from period to period and company to company due to such things as differing valuation methodologies, timing of awards and changes in stock price. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. Excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets from non-GAAP expense and income measures allows management and investors to evaluate results as-if the acquired intangible assets had been developed internally rather than acquired and, therefore, provides a supplemental measure of performance in which our acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to our internally developed intellectual property. These amounts are inconsistent in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and size of acquisitions. Although we exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets from our non-GAAP expenses, we believe that it is important for investors to understand that such intangible assets contribute to revenue generation. Restructuring and other costs. Restructuring and other costs include restructuring expenses as well as other charges that are unusual in nature, are the result of unplanned events, and arise outside the ordinary course of our business. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs, charges for the closure of excess facilities and other contract termination costs. Other costs include litigation contingency reserves, asset impairment charges, relocation expenses associated with the migration of employees in 2022 that occurred throughout 2022 and early 2023, and gains or losses on the sale or disposition of certain non-strategic assets or product lines. Acquisition-related costs. In recent years, we have completed a number of acquisitions, which result in transition, integration and other acquisition-related expense which would not otherwise have been incurred, are unpredictable and dependent on a significant number of factors that are deal-specific or outside of our control, are not indicative of our operational performance (or that of the acquired businesses or assets) and are likely to fluctuate as our acquisition activity increases or decreases in future periods. By excluding acquisition-related costs and adjustments from our non-GAAP measures, management is better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value that acquired assets will generate for us. 54 Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Income (loss) from operations $ 8,308 $ (7,667) Stock-based compensation expense 27,999 15,337 Amortization of acquired intangibles $ 4,346 $ 2,307 Restructuring and other costs $ 2,230 $ 1,292 Acquisition-related costs $ 2,917 $ 372 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 45,800 $ 11,641 Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Income (loss) from operations (as a percentage of revenue) 2.2 % (2.5) % Stock-based compensation expense (as a percentage of revenue) 7.4 % 5.0 % Amortization of acquired intangibles (as a percentage of revenue) 1.2 % 0.8 % Restructuring and other costs (as a percentage of revenue) 0.6 % 0.4 % Acquisition-related costs (as a percentage of revenue) 0.8 % 0.1 % Non-GAAP income from operations margin 12.2 % 3.8 % Free cash flow and free cash flow margin We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. We define free cash flow margin as free cash flow divided by GAAP revenue. We monitor free cash flow and free cash flow margin as two measures of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our future performance without the effects of non-cash items and allows us to better understand the cash needs of our business. While we believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful in evaluating our business, free cash flow and free cash flow margin are each non-GAAP financial measures that have limitations as an analytical tool, and free cash flow and free cash flow margin should not be considered as an alternative to, or substitute for, net cash provided by operating activities in accordance with GAAP. The utility of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as each measure does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow and free cash flow margin differently or not at all, which reduces the usefulness of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a tool for comparison. A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities is provided below. We recommend that you review the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and the reconciliation of free cash flow margin to net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of 55 revenue), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and that you not rely on free cash flow, free cash flow margin or any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 46,996 $ 7,986 Net cash used in investing activities (58,222) (29,068) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,870 (19) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (432) 184 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (9,788) $ (20,917) Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 46,996 $ 7,986 Purchases of property and equipment (3,802) (2,486) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (7,862) (5,165) Free cash flow $ 35,332 $ 335 Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 12.5 % 2.6 % Purchases of property and equipment (as a percentage of revenue) (1.0) % (0.8) % Capitalization of internal-use software costs (as a percentage of revenue) (2.1) % (1.7) % Free cash flow margin 9.4 % 0.1 % Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate nearly all of our revenue from subscriptions to our online visibility management SaaS platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date on which we provide the customer access to our platform. Our customers do not have the right to take possession of our software. Our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable during the contractual subscription term, however some of our subscription contracts contain a right to a refund if requested within seven days of purchase. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our platform and products, acquiring data, merchant account fees, and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation expense related to the management of our data centers, our customer support team, and our customer success team. In addition to these expenses, we incur third-party service provider costs, 56 such as data center and networking expenses, data acquisition costs, allocated overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense associated with our property and equipment, and amortization of capitalized software development costs and intangible assets acquired through business combinations and asset acquisitions. We allocate overhead costs, such as rent and facility costs, certain information technology costs, and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each operating expense category. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars due to expenditures related to the purchase of hardware, data, expansion, and support of our data center operations and customer support/success teams. We have seen improvement in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, and expect it to remain near current levels. It may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of significant expenditures. To the extent that our customer base grows, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in expanding the delivery capability of our products and other services. The timing of these additional expenses could affect our cost of revenue, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in any particular quarterly or annual period. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing department, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, online advertising expenses, and marketing and promotional expenses, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense all costs as they are incurred, excluding sales commissions identified as incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period of benefit, which we estimate to be two years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of revenue based on the timing of related costs. New sales personnel require training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity; as such, the costs we incur in connection with the hiring of new sales personnel in a given period are not typically offset by increased revenue in that period and may not result in new revenue if these sales personnel fail to become productive. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs. Research and development expenses also include depreciation expense and other expenses associated with product development. Other than internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization, research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We plan to increase the dollar amount of our investment in research and development for the foreseeable future as we focus on developing new products, features, and enhancements to our platform. We believe that investing in the development of new products, features, and enhancements improves customer experience, makes our platform more attractive to new paying customers, and provides us with opportunities to expand sales to existing paying customers and convert free customers to paying customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and related expenses, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, associated with our finance, legal, human resources, IT, and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other consulting services, insurance, depreciation and amortization expense, as well as allocated overhead. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to 57 comply with rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a U.S. securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, increases in insurance premiums, investor relations, and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Exit Costs During the second quarter of 2022, we began relocating our Russia-based workforce to other jurisdictions. As of June 30, 2023, we had substantially completed our relocation efforts. All costs associated with our relocation efforts are included in the consolidated statements of operations in our operating expenses under the line item, Exit Costs. Exit costs in connection with our relocation efforts include employee severance and fringe benefit costs, the loss on the sales of our Russian subsidiaries, and other associated relocation costs. We do not expect to incur exit costs associated with our relocation efforts in future periods. Other Income, Net Included in other income, net are foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The functional currencies of our international locations are the local currencies for these regions. Any differences resulting from the re-measurement of assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded within other income, net. We expect our foreign currency exchange gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future as foreign currency exchange rates change. Other income, net also includes amounts for interest income and expense, other miscellaneous income and expense, and gains and losses unrelated to our core operations. We have elected the fair value option in respect to the accounting for our convertible debt security and investment receivable investments, allowing for increases and decreases in the fair value of such investments to be recorded to other income, net for each reporting period. Interest expense is related to interest associated with outstanding finance leases. Income Tax Provision We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. We account for income taxes in accordance with the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. In addition, this method requires a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To date, we have incurred cumulative net losses and maintain a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Our tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 primarily relates to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries, the non-deductibility of certain equity awards and the requirement to capitalize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. 58 Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 The following tables set forth information comparing our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. For the Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue $ 376,815 $ 307,675 Cost of revenue (1) 65,477 52,327 Gross profit 311,338 255,348 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 144,340 126,871 Research and development (1) 80,080 57,442 General and administrative (1) 78,610 77,410 Exit Costs 1,292 Total operating expenses 303,030 263,015 Income (loss) from operations 8,308 (7,667) Other income, net 12,094 12,313 Income before income taxes 20,402 4,646 Provision for income taxes 13,027 3,696 Net income 7,375 950 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries (861) Net income attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. $ 8,236 $ 950 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: For the Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 239 $ 130 Sales and marketing 4,742 3,077 Research and development 5,906 2,213 General and administrative 17,112 9,917 Total stock-based compensation $ 27,999 $ 15,337 59 The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated (amounts may not sum due to rounding): For the Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 17 % 17 % Gross profit 83 % 83 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing 38 % 41 % Research and development 21 % 19 % General and administrative 21 % 25 % Exit Costs % % Total operating expenses 80 % 85 % Income (loss) from operations 3 % (2) % Other income, net 3 % 4 % Income before income taxes 6 % 2 % Provision for income taxes 3 % 1 % Net income 3 % 1 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries % % Net income attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. 3 % 1 % Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023was as follows: For the Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 376,815 307,675 $ 69,140 22 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, revenue increased by $69.1 million. The majority of this increase was driven by an increase in average ARR per paying customer to $3,522 as of December 31, 2024 from $3,125 as of December 31, 2023, driven by strong upsell activity. This increase was also driven by an increase in the number of paying customers to approximately 117,000 as of December 31, 2024 from nearly 108,000 as of December 31, 2023. 60 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin For the Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 65,477 $ 52,327 $ 13,150 25 % Gross profit $ 311,338 $ 255,348 $ 55,990 22 % Gross margin 83 % 83 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, cost of revenue increased by $13.2 million. This increase was primarily driven by a $3.9 million increase to integration and data costs, primarily as a result of increasing costs incurred related to new products and customer growth, a $3.5 million increase to depreciation and amortization expense primarily related to increased intangible asset balances as of December 31, 2024, a $1.7 million increase to personnel costs, a $1.6 million increase to merchant fees commensurate with revenue growth, and an overall increase in allocable overhead costs. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 144,340 $ 126,871 $ 17,469 14 % Percentage of total revenue 38 % 41 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, sales and marketing expense increased by $17.5 million. This increase was primarily driven by an increase to personnel costs of $20.4 million primarily as a result of increased wage, contractor, and stock based compensation costs, which increased year over year, and an overall increase in allocable overhead costs. These increases were partially offset by a $3.5 million decrease to marketing and advertising expense as a result of decreased expenses for paid video and paid search marketing. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 80,080 $ 57,442 $ 22,638 39 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 19 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, research and development costs increased by $22.6 million, primarily due to a $12.8 million increase to personnel costs, which includes a $3.7 million increase to stock based compensation expense, primarily as a result of a 11% increase in headcount as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. This increase was also driven by a $1.5 million increase in rent and office expenses, a $1.5 million increase to professional services costs related to outsourcing, a $0.9 million increase to depreciation and amortization costs, primarily due to a higher intangible asset balance in the current year, and an overall increase in allocable overhead costs. 61 General and administrative Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 78,610 $ 77,410 $ 1,200 2 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 25 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, general and administrative expense increased by $1.2 million, primarily driven by a $1.4 million increase in professional services due to increased acquisition costs. Other Income, Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 12,094 $ 12,313 $ (219) (2) % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 4 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, other income, net decreased by $0.2 million. The change in other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to a decrease in fair value adjustments compared to the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by increases to foreign currency gains. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 13,027 $ 3,696 $ 9,331 252 % Percentage of total revenue 3.5 % 1.2 % For the year ended December 31, 2024, the provision for income taxes increased by $9.3 million. The increase in the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries, the non-deductibility of certain equity awards and the requirement to capitalize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $48.9 million, short-term investments of $186.7 million and accounts receivable of $9.0 million. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been to fund operations, invest in capital expenditures and short-term investments, and strategically acquire new businesses and assets. This cash is held in deposits and money market funds. 62 We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors. Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for online advertising, personnel costs across the sales and marketing, product and development, and general and administrative departments, and hosting costs. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2024 was $47.0 million, which resulted from net income of $7.4 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $51.1 million and a net cash outflow of $11.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $28.0 million of stock-based compensation expense, $12.5 million for amortization of deferred contract costs related to capitalized commissions, $10.1 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $4.6 million of non-cash lease expense; partially offset by $3.3 million for accretion of premiums and discounts on investments. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $12.9 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $4.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and a $4.4 million decrease in operating lease liabilities. These outflows were partially offset by an $8.5 million increase in deferred revenue due to the addition of new customers and expansion of the business and a $1.4 million increase in accrued expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2023 was $8.0 million, which resulted from net income of $1.0 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $28.3 million and a net cash outflow of $21.3 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $15.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, $10.4 million for amortization of deferred contract costs related to capitalized commissions, $6.8 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $3.9 million of non-cash lease expense; partially offset by $6.1 million for accretion of premiums and discounts on investments. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $14.0 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $7.4 million decrease in accounts payable, a $3.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $3.8 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $2.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. These outflows were partially offset by an $8.8 million increase in deferred revenue due to the addition of new customers and expansion of the business and a $1.6 million increase in accrued expenses. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $58.2 million, which resulted from $151.2 million used to purchase short-term investments, $25.9 million used in cash paid for acquisition of assets and businesses, net of cash acquired, $7.9 million in capitalization of internal-use software costs, $7.8 million used in funding of investment loan receivables, $5.4 million used for the purchasing of noncontrolling interest shares, and $3.8 million used in purchases of property and equipment. These cash outflows were partially offset by $147.5 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $29.1 million, which resulted from $257.5 million used to purchase short-term investments, $5.2 million in capitalization of internal-use software costs, $5.1 million used in cash paid for acquisition of assets and businesses, and $2.5 million used in purchases of property and equipment. These cash outflows were partially offset by $241.6 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. 63 Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $1.9 million and consisted of $4.1 million in proceeds related to the exercises of stock options; partially offset by $1.6 million in repayment of acquired debt and $0.6 million of cash outflows relating to payments on finance leases. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted of $2.5 million in cash outflows relating to payments on finance leases. These outflows were partially offset by $2.2 million in proceeds related to the exercises of stock options and $0.3 million in proceeds related to shares issued in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space and leases for data center facilities. For more information regarding our lease obligations, see Note 4 Leases to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to our leases, we also have multi-year commitments with certain data providers expiring at various dates through 2026. For more information regarding our commitments with data providers, see Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to sections titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our audited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these audited consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 Summary to Significant Accounting Policies to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our audited consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenue Recognition Policy We generate revenue primarily from subscriptions to our online visibility management SaaS platform, which is comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our SaaS services and related customer support. We offer subscriptions to our platform primarily on a monthly or annual basis, and we sell our products and services primarily through a self-service model and also directly through our sales force. Our subscription arrangements provide customers the right to access our hosted software 64 applications and customers do not have the right to take possession of our software during the hosting arrangement. We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the term of the contract, beginning on the date the customer is provided access to our service. These subscriptions are generally stand-ready obligations as the customer has access to the service throughout the term of the subscription, and our performance obligations are satisfied with the customer over time. We consider the SaaS subscription and related support services to have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. As such, they are accounted for as a single performance obligation. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We primarily invoice and collect payments from our customers on a monthly or annual basis. Deferred revenue represents amounts billed for which revenue has not yet been recognized. Deferred revenue that is expected to be recognized during the succeeding twelve-month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as non-current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Revenue is presented net of any taxes collected from customers. Costs to Obtain a Contract We capitalize incremental direct costs of obtaining revenue contracts, which primarily consist of sales commissions paid for new subscription contracts. We amortize these commissions over a period of approximately 24 months on a systematic basis, consistent with the pattern of transfer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. The 24-month period represents the estimated benefit period of the customer relationship and has been determined by taking into consideration the type of product sold, the commitment term of the customer contract, the nature of our technology development life-cycle, and an estimated customer relationship period based on historical experience and future expectations. Deferred contract costs that will be recorded as expense during the succeeding 12-month period are recorded as current deferred contract costs, and the remaining portion is recorded as deferred contract costs, net of current portion. Amortization of deferred contract costs is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock options and other stock-based awards granted to employees and members of our board of directors for their services as directors based on the fair value on the date of the grant and recognize the corresponding compensation expense of those awards over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. We have only issued stock options with service-based vesting conditions and record the expense for these awards using the straight-line method. See Note 14 Stock-Based Compensation to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on fair value measurement of stock-based awards.