Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, along with the information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 3, 2025. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our planned investments in our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, beliefs, and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Company Overview We are a leading online visibility management software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform. We enable companies globally to identify and reach the right audience for their content, in the right context, and through the right channels. Our platform utilizes data and intelligence at the core surrounded by AI-powered interconnected hubs focused on search engine optimization, paid advertising, social media management, local marketing, brand marketing, and content marketing. Each of these marketing channel hubs is uniquely designed to ensure our customers can analyze, enhance and measure website navigation and performance, content relevance and authority, and overall prospective customer interests and engagement, and most importantly show how each channel is connected to the others to provide a much needed means for our customers to optimize returns on their investments. We generate nearly all of our revenue from subscriptions to our online visibility management SaaS platform under a SaaS model and other products. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date on which we provide the customer access to our platform. Our revenue is primarily generated through sales of our products around the globe. The largest portion of our revenue continues to be driven by customers based in the United States and United Kingdom, generating combined revenues of $55.2 million and $49.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We have one reportable segment. See Note 16 Segment and Geographic Information to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. As of March 31, 2025, we operate subsidiaries in the United States, Spain, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Serbia, Poland, Germany, Armenia, Canada, France, and Vietnam. 26 Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We regularly review a number of factors that have impacted, and we believe will continue to impact, our results of operations and growth. These factors include: Acquiring New Paying Customers We expect increasing demand for third-party online visibility software to accelerate adoption of our platform and products. Our recurring subscription model provides significant visibility into our future results and we believe Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) is the best indicator of the scale of our platform and products, while mitigating fluctuations due to seasonality and contract term. We define ARR as the total subscription revenue as of a given date that we expect to contractually receive over the subsequent 12 months from customers on an annualized basis, assuming no increases, reductions or cancellations. This ARR definition was updated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 to simplify the explanation of our calculation around the treatment of monthly and longer-term contracts, and to be more consistent with other SaaS businesses, which we believe improves the ability for investors to compare our metric against other businesses. Additionally, our definition was updated to note that we do not assume there will be any increases, reductions, or cancellations. Given our efforts to retain and win back customers, and our belief that we will be successful in many of those retention efforts, we believe the updated definition is more accurate. We are not recasting ARR results to conform ARR under the prior definition to the updated definition as there is no variance between the two definitions for the periods presented. As of March 31, 2025, we had approximately 118,000 paying customers, accounting for $424.7 million in ARR, an increase from approximately 112,000 paying customers accounting for $354.2 million in ARR as of March 31, 2024. Retaining and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customers We serve a diverse customer base across a variety of sizes and industries that is focused on maximizing their online visibility. We believe there is significant opportunity to expand within our existing customer base as customers often initially purchase our entry-level subscription, which offers lower usage limits and limited user licenses, as well as fewer features and functionality. We have demonstrated the ability to expand contract values with our existing customers as they use our products and recognize the critical nature of our platform and often seek premium offerings through incremental usage, features, add-ons, and additional user licenses. Our sales team is largely focused on driving account expansion by encouraging our customers to fully recognize the potential benefit from our comprehensive platform and the additional features and functionalities available in our Enterprise SEO solution and other solutions. As a result, we have become increasingly efficient at acquiring customers who increase their spend with us over time. Our customer cohorts typically experience their lowest dollar-based net revenue retention rate during their second full year after becoming a customer, after which the dollar-based net revenue retention rate typically improves and we are able to drive increased spending across the remaining customers within the cohort. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate enables us to evaluate our ability to retain and expand subscription revenue generated from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024 was approximately 106%. We calculate our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of the end of a period by using (a) the revenue from our customers during the twelve month period ending one year prior to such period as the denominator and (b) the revenue from those same customers during the twelve months ending as of the 27 end of such period as the numerator. This calculation excludes revenue from new customers and any non-recurring revenue. We have successfully increased ARR per paying customer over time and believe this metric is an indicator of our ability to grow the long-term value of our platform and products. We expect ARR per paying customer to continue to increase as customers adopt our premium offerings and we continue to introduce new products and functionality. Our ARR per paying customer as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 was $3,608 and $3,163, respectively, in absolute unrounded amounts. We define ARR per paying customer as of a given date as ARR from our paying customers as of that date divided by the number of paying customers as of that date. We define the number of paying customers as the number of unique business and individual customers as of a given date. We define a business customer as all accounts that contain a common non-individual business email domain (e.g., all subscriptions with an email domain of @XYZ.com will be considered to be one customer), and an individual customer as an account that uses an individual non-business email domain. Sustaining Product and Technology Innovation We have a strong track record of developing new products that have high adoption rates among our paying customers. Our product development organization plays a critical role in continuing to enhance the effectiveness and differentiation of our technology in an evolving landscape and maximizing retention of our existing customers. We intend to continue investing in product development to improve our data assets, expand our products and enhance our technological capabilities. On March 10, 2025, Oleg Shchegolev, our former Chief Executive Officer (CEO), assumed the role of Chief Technology Officer (CTO), William Wagner, a member of our Board since September 2022, assumed the role of CEO, and Vitalii Obischenko transitioned from Chief Operating Officer to Chief Product Officer (CPO). We believe this transition will further bolster our leadership team and culture of continuous innovation and improvement as it will allow Mr. Wagner to focus on leading and running the business, and Mr. Shchegolev to focus on artificial intelligence and other product innovation matters in his new role as CTO, while also ensuring strong leadership in the CPO position from Mr. Obischenko. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we believe that non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP income from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin, each a non-GAAP financial measure, are useful in evaluating the performance of our business. Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from operations margin We define non-GAAP income from operations as GAAP income from operations, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs and other one-time expenses outside the ordinary course of business. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP income from operations divided by GAAP revenue. We believe investors may want to consider our results with and without the effects of these items in order to compare our financial performance with that of other companies that exclude such items and to compare our results to prior periods. Stock-based compensation. Stock-based compensation is a non-cash expense accounted for in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC Topic 718. We believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense allows for financial results that are more indicative of our operational performance and provide for a useful comparison of our operating results to prior periods and to our peer companies because stock-based compensation expense varies from period to period and company to company due to such things as differing valuation methodologies, timing of awards and changes in stock price. 28 Amortization of acquired intangible assets. Excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets from non-GAAP expense and income measures allows management and investors to evaluate results as-if the acquired intangible assets had been developed internally rather than acquired and, therefore, provides a supplemental measure of performance in which our acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to our internally developed intellectual property. These amounts are inconsistent in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and size of acquisitions. Although we exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets from our non-GAAP expenses, we believe that it is important for investors to understand that such intangible assets contribute to revenue generation. Restructuring and other costs. Restructuring and other costs include restructuring expenses as well as other charges that are unusual in nature, are the result of unplanned events, and arise outside the ordinary course of our business. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs, charges for the closure of excess facilities and other contract termination costs. Other costs include litigation contingency reserves, asset impairment charges, relocation expenses associated with the migration of employees in 2022 that occurred throughout 2022 and early 2023, and gains or losses on the sale or disposition of certain non-strategic assets or product lines. Acquisition-related costs. In recent years, we have completed a number of acquisitions, which result in transition, integration and other acquisition-related expense which would not otherwise have been incurred, are unpredictable, and dependent on a significant number of factors that are deal-specific or outside of our control, are not indicative of our operational performance (or that of the acquired businesses or assets), and are likely to fluctuate as our acquisition activity increases or decreases in future periods. By excluding acquisition-related costs and adjustments from our non-GAAP measures, management is better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value that acquired assets will generate for us. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 (Loss) income from operations $ (74) $ 1,468 Stock-based compensation expense 9,112 5,115 Amortization of acquired intangibles 1,379 692 Restructuring and other costs 1,312 2,124 Acquisition-related costs, net 484 338 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 12,213 $ 9,737 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of our (loss) income from operations (as a percentage of revenue) to non-GAAP income from operations margin (percentage amounts may not sum due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (Loss) income from operations (as a percentage of revenue) (0.1) % 1.7 % Stock-based compensation expense (as a percentage of revenue) 8.7 % 6.0 % Amortization of acquired intangibles (as a percentage of revenue) 1.3 % 0.8 % Restructuring and other costs (as a percentage of revenue) 1.2 % 2.4 % Acquisition-related costs, net (as a percentage of revenue) 0.5 % 0.4 % Non-GAAP income from operations margin 11.6 % 11.3 % 29 Free cash flow and free cash flow margin We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. We define free cash flow margin as free cash flow divided by GAAP revenue. We monitor free cash flow and free cash flow margin as two measures of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our future performance without the effects of non-cash items and allows us to better understand the cash needs of our business. While we believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful in evaluating our business, free cash flow and free cash flow margin are each non-GAAP financial measures that have limitations as an analytical tool, and free cash flow and free cash flow margin should not be considered as an alternative to, or substitute for, net cash provided by operating activities in accordance with GAAP. The utility of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as each measure does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow and free cash flow margin differently or not at all, which reduces the usefulness of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a tool for comparison. A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities is provided below. We recommend that you review the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and the reconciliation of free cash flow margin to net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and that you not rely on free cash flow, free cash flow margin or any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 22,109 $ 14,779 Net cash used in investing activities (5,686) (31,981) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (345) 434 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (288) (507) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 15,790 $ (17,275) Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 22,109 $ 14,779 Purchases of property and equipment (725) (759) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (2,879) (2,015) Free cash flow $ 18,505 $ 12,005 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) to free cash flow margin (percentage amounts may not sum due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 21.1 % 17.2 % Purchases of property and equipment (as a percentage of revenue) (0.7) % (0.9) % Capitalization of internal-use software costs (as a percentage of revenue) (2.7) % (2.3) % Free cash flow margin 17.6 % 14.0 % 30 Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate nearly all of our revenue from subscriptions to our online visibility management SaaS platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date on which we provide the customer access to our platform. Our customers do not have the right to take possession of our software. Our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable during the contractual subscription term, however some of our subscription contracts contain a right to a refund if requested within seven days of purchase. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our platform and products, acquiring data, merchant account fees, and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation expense related to the management of our data centers, our customer support team, and our customer success team. In addition to these expenses, we incur third-party service provider costs, such as data center and networking expenses, data acquisition costs, allocated overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense associated with our property and equipment, and amortization of capitalized software development costs and intangible assets acquired through business combinations and asset acquisitions. We allocate overhead costs, such as rent and facility costs, certain information technology costs, and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each operating expense category. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars due to expenditures related to the purchase of hardware, data, expansion, and support of our data center operations and customer support/success teams. We have seen improvement in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue as revenue has increased, and expect it to remain near current levels. It may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of significant expenditures. To the extent that our customer base grows, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in expanding the delivery capability of our products and other services. The timing of these additional expenses could affect our cost of revenue, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in any particular quarterly or annual period. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing department, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, online advertising expenses, and marketing and promotional expenses, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense all costs as they are incurred, excluding sales commissions identified as incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period of benefit, which we estimate to be two years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of revenue based on the timing of related costs. New sales personnel require training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity; as such, the costs we incur in connection with the hiring of new sales personnel in a given period are not typically offset by increased revenue in that period and may not result in new revenue if these sales personnel fail to become productive. 31 Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs. Research and development expenses also include depreciation expense and other expenses associated with product development. Other than internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization, research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We plan to increase the dollar amount of our investment in research and development for the foreseeable future as we focus on developing new products, features, and enhancements to our platform. We believe that investing in the development of new products, features, and enhancements improves customer experience, makes our platform more attractive to new paying customers, and provides us with opportunities to expand sales to existing paying customers and convert free customers to paying customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and related expenses, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, associated with our finance, legal, human resources, IT, and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other consulting services, insurance, depreciation and amortization expense, as well as allocated overhead. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a U.S. securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, increases in insurance premiums, investor relations and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Other Income, Net Included in other income, net are foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The functional currencies of our international locations are the local currencies for these regions. Any differences resulting from the re-measurement of assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded within other income, net. We expect our foreign currency exchange gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future as foreign currency exchange rates change. Other income, net also includes amounts for interest income and expense, other miscellaneous income and expense, and gains and losses unrelated to our core operations. We have elected the fair value option in respect to the accounting for our convertible debt securities and investment loan receivable investments, allowing for increases and decreases in the fair value of such investments to be recorded to other income, net for each reporting period. Interest expense is related to interest associated with outstanding finance leases. Income Tax Provision We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. We account for income taxes in accordance with the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. In addition, this method requires a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Based on our recent financial performance, and expected long-term future projections, we believe we may be able to record a reversal of all, or a portion of the valuation allowance associated with U.S. deferred tax assets in future periods. However, any such change is subject to actual performance and other considerations that may present positive or negative evidence at the time of the assessment. Our 32 tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 primarily relates to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries, the non-deductibility of certain equity awards and the requirement to capitalize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations The following tables set forth information comparing our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 105,018 $ 85,812 Cost of revenue (1) 19,871 14,645 Gross profit 85,147 71,167 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 41,307 33,921 Research and development (1) 21,912 17,304 General and administrative (1) 22,002 18,474 Total operating expenses 85,221 69,699 (Loss) income from operations (74) 1,468 Other income, net 4,172 3,639 Income before income taxes 4,098 5,107 Provision for income taxes 3,443 3,104 Net income 655 2,003 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries (194) (135) Net income attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. $ 849 $ 2,138 __________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 44 $ 39 Sales and marketing 1,627 770 Research and development 2,466 636 General and administrative 4,975 3,670 Total stock-based compensation $ 9,112 $ 5,115 33 The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated (amounts may not sum due to rounding): Three months ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 19 % 17 % Gross profit 81 % 83 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing 39 % 40 % Research and development 21 % 20 % General and administrative 21 % 22 % Total operating expenses 81 % 81 % (Loss) income from operations % 2 % Other income, net 4 % 4 % Income before income taxes 4 % 6 % Provision for income taxes 3 % 4 % Net income 1 % 2 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries % % Net income attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. 1 % 2 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Our revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024was as follows: Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 105,018 $ 85,812 $ 19,206 22 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025 revenue increased by $19.2 million. The majority of this increase was driven by strong upsell and cross sell activity as well as an increase in the number of paying customers to approximately 118,000 as of March 31, 2025 from approximately 112,000 as of March 31, 2024. 34 Revenue based upon the locations of our paying customers during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue: United States $ 45,937 $ 40,646 United Kingdom 9,245 8,324 Other 49,836 36,842 Total revenue $ 105,018 $ 85,812 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 105,018 $ 85,812 $ 19,206 22 % Cost of revenue $ 19,871 $ 14,645 $ 5,226 36 % Gross profit $ 85,147 $ 71,167 $ 13,980 20 % Gross margin 81 % 83 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, cost of revenue increased by $5.2 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This increase is primarily driven by a $2.0 million increase in integration and data costs, a $1.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization costs, a $0.8 million increase in personnel costs, a $0.4 million increase in merchant fees, and an increase in allocable overhead costs. 35 Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 41,307 $ 33,921 $ 7,386 22 % Percentage of total revenue 39 % 40 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, sales and marketing expense increased by $7.4 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by a $5.2 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher wage and stock-based compensation costs and a $0.7 million increase from other costs, primarily driven by increases to travel and consulting fees, and an increase in allocable overhead costs. Research and Development Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 21,912 $ 17,304 $ 4,608 27 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 20 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, research and development costs increased by $4.6 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily as a result of a $4.4 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher wage and stock-based compensation costs. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 22,002 $ 18,474 $ 3,528 19 % Percentage of total revenue 21 % 22 % For the three months ended March 31, 2025, general and administrative expense increased by $3.5 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by a $3.9 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher wage and stock-based compensation costs. Other Income, Net Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 4,172 $ 3,639 $ 533 15% Percentage of total revenue 4 % 4 % The increase in other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year was primarily due to an increase in fair value adjustments relating to convertible debt securities and investment loan receivables (See Note 5 Fair Value Measurement and Note 7 Other assets to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly 36 Report on Form 10-Q for more information). This increase was partially offset by decreases to interest income and other activity within other income, net. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 3,443 $ 3,104 $ 339 11 % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 4 % The increase in the provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year was primarily due to the effects of changes in the tax provision recorded on the earnings of our profitable foreign subsidiaries, restrictions on the deductibility of equity awards, and the impact of the requirement to capitalize and amortize certain research and development costs which results in a current provision for U.S. taxes but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $64.7 million, short-term investments of $197.1 million, and accounts receivable of $11.0 million. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been to fund operations, invest in capital expenditures and short-term investments, and strategically acquire new businesses and assets. This cash is held in deposits and money market funds. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for online advertising, personnel costs across the sales and marketing, product and development, and general and administrative departments, and hosting costs. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $22.1 million. The activity resulted from a net income of $0.7 million adjusted for non-cash add backs of $16.3 million and a net cash inflow of $5.2 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $9.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $3.5 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions, and $3.4 million for depreciation and amortization expense. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $7.9 million increase in deferred revenue, a $3.6 million increase in accounts payable, and a $1.6 million increase in accrued expenses. These inflows were partially offset by a $3.9 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $2.2 million increase in accounts receivable, a $1.3 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $0.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $14.8 million. The activity resulted from a net income of $2.0 million adjusted for non-cash add backs of $11.2 37 million and a net cash inflow of $1.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $5.1 million of stock-based compensation expense and $3.0 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $3.5 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $2.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, a $1.1 million decrease in operating lease liability, and a $0.4 million decrease in other current liabilities. These outflows were partially offset by a $5.7 million increase in deferred revenue, a $1.4 million increase in accrued expenses, a $1.0 million increase in accounts payable, and a $0.8 million increase to accounts receivable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $5.7 million and primarily consisted of $27.2 million in purchases of short-term investments, $2.9 million in capitalization of internal-use software costs, $0.7 million in purchases of property and equipment, and $0.5 million in cash paid for businesses, net of cash acquired. These outflows were partially offset by $18.0 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments and $7.7 million in proceeds from the repayment of the investment loan receivables. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $32.0 million and primarily consisted of $46.7 million in purchases of short-term investments and $7.0 in funding of the investment loan receivable. This activity was partially offset by $25.0 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.3 million and consisted of $0.6 million in repayment of acquired debt and $0.1 million of cash outflows related to the payment of finance leases, partially offset by $0.4 million in proceeds relating to the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $0.4 million and consisted of $0.8 million relating to the exercise of stock options partially offset by $0.4 million of cash outflows related to the payment of finance leases. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space and leases for data center facilities. For more information regarding our lease obligations, see Note 4 Leases to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to our leases, we also have multi-year commitments with certain data providers expiring at various dates through 2026. For more information regarding our commitments with data providers, see Note 14 Commitments and contingencies to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. 38 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statementsin conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under the heading Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.