Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our planned investments in our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, beliefs, and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the SEC on March 15, 2023. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Company Overview We are a leading online visibility management SaaS platform, enabling companies globally to identify and reach the right audience in the right context and through the right channels. Online visibility represents how effectively companies connect with consumers across a variety of digital channels, including search, social and digital media, digital public relations, and review websites. Our proprietary SaaS platform enables us to aggregate and enrich trillions of data points collected from hundreds of millions of unique domains, social media platforms, online ads, and web traffic. This allows our customers to understand trends, derive unique and actionable insights to improve their websites and social media pages, and distribute highly relevant content to their targeted customers across channels to drive high quality traffic. On March 29, 2021, we completed our IPO in which we issued and sold 10,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock at a public offering price of $14.00 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $140.0 million. We received approximately $126.6 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. On April 20, 2021, the underwriters of our IPO partially exercised their option to purchase additional shares of Class A common stock. In connection with the closing of the partial exercise on April 23, 2021, the underwriters purchased 719,266 shares of our Class A common stock for net proceeds to us of $9.2 million. In connection with the closing of the IPO, all of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock and common stock automatically converted into 124,902,093 shares of Class B common stock. On November 23, 2021, we closed our follow-on offering (the Follow-On Offering) in which we sold 4,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock at a price to the public of $20.50 per share. We received $77.9 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. Selling stockholders sold an aggregate of 1,000,000 shares of Class A common stock in the Follow-On Offering. Since our founding in 2008, we have achieved a number of significant milestones, including: 2010: Surpassed 1,000 customers; 2012: Started expansion into SEO software, launched Position Tracking, and opened our first U.S. office near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; 2014: Continued expansion of SEO capabilities with Site Audit tool; 49 2015: Surpassed 10,000 customers and launched Social Media tools; 2016: Launched Content Marketing and Digital PR tools; 2017: Completed our first round of financing led by entities affiliated with Siguler Guff & Company and introduced collaboration features, including the ability to add users and share projects and received U.S. and UK search awards for the Best SEO Software Suite; 2018: Completed another round of financing led by Greycroft and e.ventures, relocated headquarters to Boston, Massachusetts, and opened an office in Dallas, Texas, surpassed $70 million in ARR, and launched our first add-on offering, Local Listings; 2019: Surpassed 50,000 customers and $100 million in ARR, and launched our second add-on offering, our competitive intelligence tool; 2020: Received multiple awards, including Best SEO Software Suite and Best Search Software Tool according to the European Search Awards, our headcount grew to more than 900 employees globally, and acquired Prowly; 2021: Completed our IPO and the Follow-On Offering and surpassed $200 million in ARR; and 2022: Continued expansion of our App Center to 37 apps including 17 third-party apps, increased the number of customers that pay more than $10,000 annually by more than 50% year over year, and acquired Backlinko and Kompyte. 2023: Surpassed $300 million in ARR, 100,000 paying customers, 1,000,000 active free customers, and acquired Traffic Think Tank and a controlling interest in Datos. We generate substantially all of our revenue from monthly and annual subscriptions to our online visibility management platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date the product is made available to customers. We currently operate subsidiaries in the United States, Spain, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Serbia, Poland, Germany, Armenia, Canada, and France. Our revenue is primarily generated through sales of our products around the globe. The largest portion of our revenue continues to be driven by customers based in the U.S., generating revenues of $146 million and $120 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We have one reportable segment. See Note 19 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Our subscription model enables our paying customers to choose among tiered plans for a majority of our products to meet their specific needs. Our multi-price point pricing for our core product ranges between $130 and $500 per month or $1,300 to $5,000 per year, with each price point providing an incremental level of access to our products and usage limits. Within our subscription tiers, customers have the ability to purchase increased usage limits by adding the ability to create additional projects, keywords to track, and seat licenses without moving to a higher price point plan. We have a demonstrated track record of customers consistently upgrading to higher price point plans to get access to incremental functionality and usage limits. Additionally, we offer add-ons that are not included in our subscription plans and are sold on a one-time or monthly basis depending on the add-on. Since inception, we have managed our rapid growth with discipline and efficiency. We generated revenue of $307.7 million and $254.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, 50 respectively, representing growth of 21% year over year. Our revenue grew at a compound annual growth rate of 41% between the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2023. Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $1.0 million and our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $33.8 million, respectively. We believe that the growth of our business and our operating results will be dependent upon many factors, including our ability to acquire new and retain existing paying customers, increase revenue from existing paying customers, and sustain and adapt to product and technology innovation. While these areas present significant opportunities for us, they also pose challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. Our marketing is focused on building our brand reputation, increasing market awareness of our platform and products, and driving customer demand and a strong sales pipeline. We believe that these efforts will result in an increase in our paying customer base, revenues, and improved operating margins in the long term. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. Additionally, we face intense competition in our market, and to succeed, we need to innovate and offer products that are differentiated from point solutions that address aspects of online visibility management. We must also effectively hire, retain, train, and motivate qualified personnel and senior management. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges, our business, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We regularly review a number of factors that have impacted, and we believe will continue to impact, our results of operations and growth. These factors include: Acquiring New Paying Customers We expect increasing demand for third-party online visibility software to accelerate adoption of our platform. Our recurring subscription model provides significant visibility into our future results and we believe ARR is the best indicator of the scale of our platform, while mitigating fluctuations due to seasonality and contract term. We define Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) as of a given date as the monthly recurring revenue that we expect to contractually receive from all paid subscription agreements that are actively generating revenue as of that date multiplied by 12. We include both monthly recurring paid subscriptions, which renew automatically unless canceled, as well as annual recurring paid subscriptions so long as we do not have any indication that a customer has canceled or intends to cancel its subscription and we continue to generate revenue from them. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had nearly 108,000 paying customers and over 95,000 paying customers, respectively, accounting for $337.1 million and $275.1 million in ARR, respectively. Retaining and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customers We serve a diverse customer base across a variety of sizes and industries that is focused on maximizing their online visibility. We believe there is significant opportunity to expand within our existing customer base as customers often initially purchase our entry-level subscription, which offers lower usage limits and limited user licenses, as well as fewer features. We have demonstrated the ability to expand contract values with our existing customers as they use our products and recognize the critical nature of our platform and often seek premium offerings through incremental usage, features, add-ons, and additional user licenses. Our sales team is largely focused on driving account expansion by encouraging our customers to fully recognize the potential benefit from our comprehensive platform. As a result, we have become 51 increasingly efficient at acquiring customers who increase their spend with us over time. The chart below illustrates the subscription revenue from each customer cohort based on the year in which they became customers during the year presented. As indicated in the chart, our customer cohorts typically experience their lowest dollar-based net revenue retention rate during their second full year after becoming a customer, after which the dollar-based net revenue retention rate typically improves and we are able to drive increased spending across the remaining customers within the cohort. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate enables us to evaluate our ability to retain and expand subscription revenue generated from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 was approximately 107% and 118%, respectively. We calculate our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of the end of a period by using (a) the revenue from our customers during the twelve month period ending one year prior to such period as the denominator and (b) the revenue from those same customers during the twelve months ending as of the end of such period as the numerator. This calculation excludes revenue from new customers and any non-recurring revenue. We have successfully increased ARR per paying customer over time and believe this metric is an indicator of our ability to grow the long-term value of our platform. We expect ARR per paying customer to continue to increase as customers adopt our premium offerings, and we continue to introduce new products and functionality. Our ARR per paying customer as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $3,125 and $2,868, respectively, in absolute unrounded amounts. We define ARR per paying customer as of a given date as ARR from our paying customers as of that date divided by the number of paying customers as of that date. We define the number of paying customers as the number of unique business and individual customers as of a given date. We define a business customer as all accounts that contain a common non-individual business email domain (e.g., all subscriptions with an email domain of @XYZ.com will be considered to be one customer), and an individual customer as an account that uses an individual non-business email domain. Sustaining Product and Technology Innovation We have a strong track record of developing new products that have high adoption rates among our paying customers. Our product development organization plays a critical role in continuing to enhance the 52 effectiveness and differentiation of our technology in an evolving landscape and maximizing retention of our existing customers. We intend to continue investing in product development to improve our data assets, expand our products and enhance our technological capabilities. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we believe that non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin, each a non-GAAP financial measure, are useful in evaluating the performance of our business. Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations as GAAP income (loss) from operations, excluding stock-based compensation expense. We believe non-GAAP income (loss) from operations provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as it eliminates the effect of stock-based compensation, which is often unrelated to overall operating performance. We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin as non-GAAP income (loss) from operations divided by GAAP revenue. We believe non-GAAP income (loss) from operations provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as it eliminates the effect of stock-based compensation, which is often unrelated to overall operating performance. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Loss from operations $ (7,667) $ (36,373) Stock-based compensation expense 15,337 7,393 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 7,670 $ (28,980) Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Loss from operations (as a percentage of revenue) (2.0) % (14.0) % Stock-based compensation expense (as a percentage of revenue) 5.0 % 3.0 % Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations (as a percentage of revenue) 3.0 % (11.0) % Free cash flow and free cash flow margin We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. We define free cash flow margin as free cash flow divided by GAAP revenue. We monitor free cash flow and free cash flow margin as two measures of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our future performance without the effects of non-cash items and allows us to better understand the cash needs of our business. While we believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful in evaluating our business, free cash flow and free cash flow margin are each a non-GAAP financial measure that have limitations as an analytical tool, and free cash flow and free cash flow margin should 53 not be considered as an alternative to, or substitute for, net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in accordance with GAAP. The utility of each of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as each measure does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow and free cash flow margin differently or not at all, which reduces the usefulness of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as tool for comparison. A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities is provided below. We recommend that you review the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and the reconciliation of free cash flow margin to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (as a percentage of revenue), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, provided below, and that you not rely on free cash flow, free cash flow margin or any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,986 $ (9,624) Net cash used in investing activities (29,068) (179,832) Net cash used in financing activities (19) (345) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 184 (275) Decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (20,917) $ (190,076) Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 7,986 $ (9,624) Purchases of property and equipment (2,486) (4,234) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (5,165) (1,706) Free cash flow $ 335 $ (15,564) Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 2.6 % (3.8) % Purchases of property and equipment (as a percentage of revenue) (0.8) % (1.7) % Capitalization of internal-use software costs (as a percentage of revenue) (1.7) % (0.7) % Free cash flow margin 0.1 % (6.1) % Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate nearly all of our revenue from subscriptions to our online visibility management platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date on which we provide the customer access to our platform. Our customers do not have the right to 54 take possession of our software. Our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable during the contractual subscription term, however our subscription contracts contain a right to a refund if requested within seven days of purchase. We offer our paid products to customers via monthly or annual subscription plans, as well as one-time and ongoing add-ons. Our subscription-based model enables customers to select a plan based on their needs and license our platform on a per user per month basis. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we served nearly 108,000 and over 95,000 paying customers, respectively, in various industries. Our revenue is not concentrated with any single customer or industry. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our platform, acquiring data, merchant account fees, and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation expense related to the management of our data centers, our customer support team, and our customer success team. In addition to these expenses, we incur third-party service provider costs, such as data center and networking expenses, data acquisition costs, allocated overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense associated with our property and equipment, and amortization of capitalized software development costs and intangible assets acquired through business combinations and asset acquisitions. We allocate overhead costs, such as rent and facility costs, certain information technology costs, and employee benefit costs to all departments based on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each operating expense category. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars due to expenditures related to the purchase of hardware, data, expansion, and support of our data center operations and customer support/success teams. We have seen improvement in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, and expect it to remain near current levels. It may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of significant expenditures. To the extent that our customer base grows, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in expanding the delivery capability of our products and other services. The timing of these additional expenses could affect our cost of revenue, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in any particular quarterly or annual period. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing department, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, online advertising expenses, and marketing and promotional expenses, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense all costs as they are incurred, excluding sales commissions identified as incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period of benefit, which we estimate to be two years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of revenue based on the timing of related costs. New sales personnel require training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity; as such, the costs we incur in connection with the hiring of new sales personnel in a given period are not typically offset by increased revenue in that period and may not result in new revenue if these sales personnel fail to become productive. 55 Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs. Research and development expenses also include depreciation expense and other expenses associated with product development. Other than internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization, research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We plan to increase the dollar amount of our investment in research and development for the foreseeable future as we focus on developing new products, features, and enhancements to our platform. We believe that investing in the development of new products, features, and enhancements improves customer experience, makes our platform more attractive to new paying customers, and provides us with opportunities to expand sales to existing paying customers and convert free customers to paying customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and related expenses, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, associated with our finance, legal, human resources, IT, and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other consulting services, insurance, depreciation and amortization expense, as well as allocated overhead. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a U.S. securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, increases in insurance premiums, investor relations, and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Exit Costs During the second quarter of 2022, we began relocating our Russia-based workforce to other jurisdictions. As of June 30, 2023, we had substantially completed our relocation efforts. All costs associated with our relocation efforts are included in the consolidated statements of operations in our operating expenses under the line item, Exit Costs. Exit costs in connection with our relocation efforts include employee severance and fringe benefit costs, the loss on the sales of our Russian subsidiaries, and other associated relocation costs. We do not expect to incur exit costs associated with our relocation efforts in future periods. Other Income (Expense), Net Included in other income (expense), net are foreign currency transaction gains and losses. In accordance with ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters, we redetermined our functional currencies of our international locations as of January 1, 2022, when it was determined the local currencies for these regions were most appropriate, with the exception of Russia where the U.S. dollar was the functional currency. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the functional currencies of our international locations were the local currencies for these regions. Any differences resulting from the re-measurement of assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded within other income (expense), net. We expect our foreign currency exchange gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future as foreign currency exchange rates change. Other income (expense), net also includes amounts for interest income and expense, other miscellaneous income and expense, and gains and losses unrelated to our core operations. We have elected the fair value option in respect to the accounting for our convertible note investments, allowing for increases and decreases in the fair value of such investments to be recorded to other income (expense), 56 net for each reporting period. Interest expense is related to our revolving credit facility, which matured on January 12, 2024, as well as interest associated with outstanding finance leases. Income Tax Provision We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. We account for income taxes in accordance with the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. In addition, this method requires a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To date, we have incurred cumulative net losses and maintain a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. We expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Our tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 primarily relates to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries and the requirement to capitalize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. 57 Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 The following tables set forth information comparing our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue $ 307,675 $ 254,316 Cost of revenue (1) 52,327 48,553 Gross profit 255,348 205,763 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 126,871 126,889 Research and development (1) 57,442 41,204 General and administrative (1) 77,410 62,779 Exit Costs 1,292 11,264 Total operating expenses 263,015 242,136 Loss from operations (7,667) (36,373) Other income, net 12,313 3,456 Income (loss) before income taxes 4,646 (32,917) Provision for income taxes 3,696 931 Net income (loss) 950 (33,848) Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiary Net income (loss) attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. $ 950 $ (33,848) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 130 $ 74 Sales and marketing 3,077 2,235 Research and development 2,213 1,123 General and administrative 9,917 3,961 Total stock-based compensation $ 15,337 $ 7,393 58 The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated (amounts may not sum due to rounding): For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 17 % 19 % Gross profit 83 % 81 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing 41 % 50 % Research and development 19 % 16 % General and administrative 25 % 25 % Exit Costs % 4 % Total operating expenses 85 % 95 % Loss from operations (2) % (14) % Other income, net 4 % 1 % Income (loss) before income taxes 2 % (13) % Provision for income taxes 2 % % Net income (loss) % (13) % Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiary % % Net income (loss) attributable to Semrush Holdings, Inc. % (13) % Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022was as follows: For the Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 307,675 254,316 $ 53,359 21 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, revenue increased by $53.4 million. The majority of this increase was driven by an increase in the number of paying customers to nearly 108,000 as of December 31, 2023 from over 95,000 as of December 31, 2022. The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 was also driven by growth in user licenses per customer, add-ons, and attach rates. We define attach rates as the ratio of the number of paying customers who purchase specific add-ons to the number of total paying customers. 59 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin For the Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 52,327 $ 48,553 $ 3,774 8 % Gross profit $ 255,348 $ 205,763 $ 49,585 24 % Gross margin 83 % 81 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, cost of revenue increased by $3.8 million. This increase was primarily driven by a $1.8 million increase to integration and data costs, primarily as a result of increasing costs incurred related to new products and customer growth, a $1.1 million increase to merchant fees commensurate with revenue growth, and a $0.8 million increase to depreciation and amortization expense primarily related to increased capitalized software balances as of December 31, 2023. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 126,871 $ 126,889 $ (18) % Percentage of total revenue 41 % 50 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, sales and marketing expense remained relatively flat. Marketing and advertising expense decreased by $19.6 million, primarily as a result of decreased expenses for paid video and paid search marketing. This decrease was offset by an increase to personnel costs of $19.3 million primarily as a result of a 17% increase in headcount as we continue to expand our sales teams to grow our customer base as well as the costs associated with operating in higher cost locations. Personnel costs include the amortization of capitalized commission costs, which increased year over year, partially due to the amortization of commissions paid in prior periods, as well as expense associated with the amortization of commissions paid and capitalized during 2023, which increased due to the overall growth in sales. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 57,442 $ 41,204 $ 16,238 39 % Percentage of total revenue 19 % 16 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, research and development costs increased by $16.2 million, primarily as a result of a 12% increase in headcount as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, as well as increased compensation costs associated with the relocation of many research and development employees to higher cost countries. 60 General and administrative Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 77,410 $ 62,779 $ 14,631 23 % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 25 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, general and administrative expense increased by $14.6 million. Personnel costs increased by $16.6 million, which includes a $6.0 million increase in stock-based compensation compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 applicable to these teams. This increase to personnel costs was primarily driven by a 9% increase in headcount as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 as we continued to expand our accounting and reporting, legal and compliance, and internal support teams. The increases were off-set in part by a decrease in professional services of $0.9 million, which was primarily driven by a decrease in consulting fees. Other general and administrative expense also decreased by $1.0 million, primarily driven by a decrease to business insurance and office related expenses. Other Income, Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 12,313 $ 3,456 $ 8,857 256 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 1 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, other income, net increased by $8.9 million. The change in other income, net for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to an increase in interest income and an increase in the fair value of convertible notes during the year. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 2022 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 3,696 $ 931 $ 2,765 297 % Percentage of total revenue 1.2 % 0.4 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, the provision for income taxes increased by $2.8 million. The increase in the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to increased profits in our foreign subsidiaries and the requirement to capitalize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. 61 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds of our initial public offering in March 2021 and our follow-on offering in November 2021, which totaled $213.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses paid or payable by us, and the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities, as well as sales of premium subscriptions to our platform. As of December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $58.8 million, short-term investments of $179.7 million and accounts receivable of $7.9 million. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been to fund operations, invest in capital expenditures and short-term investments, and strategically acquire new businesses. This cash is held in deposits and money market funds. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, along with our available financial resources from our credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Credit Facility On January 12, 2021, we executed a credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in the form of a revolving credit facility that consists of a $45.0 million revolving credit facility and a letter of credit sub-facility with an aggregate limit equal to the lesser of $5.0 million and the aggregate unused amount of the revolving commitments then in effect. As of December 31, 2023, we had $45.0 million available under the revolving credit facility, with $5.0 million of such revolving commitments available under the letter of credit sub-facility. All of our obligations under our credit facility will be guaranteed by our future domestic subsidiaries and, subject to certain exceptions, secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at our option at (i) the Applicable Benchmark Rate, subject to a 0.50% floor, plus a credit spread adjustment margin, or (ii) the alternate base rate, subject to a 3.25% floor (or 1.50% prior to positive consolidated adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (adjusted EBITDA) for the twelve months most recently ended), plus a margin. For Applicable Benchmark Rate borrowings, the applicable rate margin is 2.75% (or 3.50% prior to positive consolidated adjusted EBITDA as of the twelve months most recently ended). For base rate borrowings, the applicable margin is 0.00% (or 2.50% prior to positive consolidated adjusted EBITDA as of the twelve months most recently ended). We are also required to pay a 0.25% per annum fee on undrawn amounts under our revolving credit facility, payable quarterly in arrears. As of December 31, 2023, we had not drawn on this revolving credit facility or the letter of credit. The credit facility matured on January 12, 2024. 62 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for online advertising, personnel costs across the sales and marketing and product and development departments, and hosting costs. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2023 was $8.0 million, which resulted from net income of $1.0 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $28.3 million and a net cash outflow of $21.3 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $15.3 million of stock-based compensation expense, $10.4 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions, $6.8 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $3.9 million of non-cash lease expense; partially offset by a cash outflow of $6.1 million for amortization (accretion) of premiums and discounts on investments. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $14.0 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $7.4 million decrease in accounts payable, a $3.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $3.8 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $2.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. These outflows were partially offset by an $8.8 million increase in deferred revenue due to the addition of new customers and expansion of the business and a $1.6 million increase in accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2022 was $9.6 million, which resulted from a net loss of $33.8 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $28.8 million and a net cash outflow of $4.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $9.0 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions, $7.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, $6.7 million of depreciation and amortization expense, and $4.5 million of non-cash lease expense. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $9.5 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $3.3 million increase in accounts receivable, a $4.1 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $2.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. These outflows were partially offset by a $9.1 million increase in deferred revenue due to the addition of new customers and expansion of the business and a $6.8 million increase in accounts payable. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $29.1 million, which resulted from $257.5 million used to purchase short-term investments, $5.2 million in capitalization of internal-use software costs, $5.1 million used in cash paid for acquisition of assets and businesses, and $2.5 million used in purchases of property and equipment. These cash outflows were partially offset by $241.6 million in proceed from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $179.8 million, which resulted from $157.9 million used to purchase short-term investments, $14.0 used in cash paid for acquisition of assets and businesses, $4.2 million used in purchases of property and equipment, and $2.0 million used to purchase convertible debt securities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted of $2.5 million in cash outflows relating to payments on finance leases. These outflows were partially offset by $2.2 million in proceeds related to the exercises of stock options and $0.3 million in proceeds related to shares issued in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $0.3 million and consisted of cash inflows related to the exercises of stock options of $1.0 million as well as shares issued 63 in connection with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $0.8 million and cash outflows relating to payments on finance leases of $2.1 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space and leases for data center facilities. For more information regarding our lease obligations, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to our leases, we also have multi-year commitments with certain data providers expiring at various dates through 2026. For more information regarding our commitments with data providers, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to sections titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our audited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these audited consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our audited consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenue Recognition Policy We generate revenue primarily from subscriptions to our online visibility management platform, which is comprised of subscription fees from customers accessing our SaaS services and related customer support. We offer subscriptions to our platform primarily on a monthly or annual basis, and we sell our products and services primarily through a self-service model and also directly through our sales force. Our subscription arrangements provide customers the right to access our hosted software applications and customers do not have the right to take possession of our software during the hosting arrangement. We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the term of the contract, beginning on the date the customer is provided access to our service. These subscriptions are generally stand-ready obligations as the customer has access to the service throughout the term of the subscription, and our 64 performance obligations are satisfied with the customer over time. We consider the SaaS subscription and related support services to have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. As such, they are accounted for as a single performance obligation. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We primarily invoice and collect payments from our customers for in advance on a monthly or annual basis. Deferred revenue represents amounts billed for which revenue has not yet been recognized. Deferred revenue that is expected to be recognized during the succeeding twelve-month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as non-current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Revenue is presented net of any taxes collected from customers. Costs to Obtain a Contract We capitalize incremental direct costs of obtaining revenue contracts, which primarily consist of sales commissions paid for new subscription contracts. We amortize these commissions over a period of approximately 24 months on a systematic basis, consistent with the pattern of transfer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. The 24-month period represents the estimated benefit period of the customer relationship and has been determined by taking into consideration the type of product sold, the commitment term of the customer contract, the nature of our technology development life-cycle, and an estimated customer relationship period based on historical experience and future expectations. Sales commissions for renewals and upgrade contracts are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated customer relationship period of the related customer. Deferred contract costs that will be recorded as expense during the succeeding 12-month period are recorded as current deferred contract costs, and the remaining portion is recorded as deferred contract costs, net of current portion. Amortization of deferred contract costs is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Stock-Based Compensation We measure stock options and other stock-based awards granted to employees and members of our board of directors for their services as directors based on the fair value on the date of the grant and recognize the corresponding compensation expense of those awards over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. We have only issued stock options with service-based vesting conditions and record the expense for these awards using the straight-line method. We estimate the fair value of each stock option grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which uses as inputs the estimated fair value of our common stock and assumptions we make for the volatility of our common stock, the expected term of our stock options, the risk-free interest rate for a period that approximates the expected term of our stock options and our expected dividend yield. We determined the assumptions for the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as discussed below. Each of these inputs is subjective and generally requires significant judgment to determine. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair valuePrior to the IPO, we estimated the fair value of our common stock. Our board of directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock as awards were approved, including utilizing thirdparty valuations to assist with the determination of the estimated fairmarket value and common stock price. Following the closing of the IPO, our Class A 65 common stock is publicly traded, and therefore we currently base the value of our Class A common stock on its market price. Expected dividend yieldThe annual rate of dividends is expressed as a dividend yield which is a constant percentage of the stock price. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not paid dividends and do not anticipate paying a cash dividend on common stock in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, use an expected dividend yield of zero. Expected termThe expected life of an option represents the period of time that an option is expected to be outstanding. The expected term of an award is determined using the simplified method for plain vanilla options, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. Risk-free rateThe riskfree interest rate is based on the rate of U.S. treasury securities with maturities consistent with the estimated expected term of the awards. Expected volatilityAs we do not have a trading history of our common stock, there is no historical basis of the stock volatility. Accordingly, the expected volatility is based primarily on the historical volatilities of similar entities common stock over the most recent period commensurate with the estimated expected term of the awards. The weighted-average fair values of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $5.58 and$6.36 per share, respectively. The weighted-average assumptions utilized to determine the fair value of options granted are presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Expected volatility 63.1 % 53.3 % Weighted-average risk-free interest rate 3.75 % 2.72 % Expected dividend yield Expected life in years 6 6 JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that have not made this election.