Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, along with the financial information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 7, 2024. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis, including information with respect to our planned investments in our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative functions, contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, beliefs, and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Company Overview We are a leading online visibility management SaaS platform, enabling companies globally to identify and reach the right audience in the right context and through the right channels. Online visibility represents how effectively companies connect with consumers across a variety of digital channels, including search, social and digital media, digital public relations, and review websites. Our proprietary SaaS platform enables us to aggregate and enrich trillions of data points collected from hundreds of millions of unique domains, social media platforms, online ads, and web traffic. This allows our customers to understand trends, derive unique and actionable insights to improve their websites and social media pages, and distribute highly relevant content to their targeted customers across channels to drive high quality traffic. We generate substantially all of our revenue from monthly and annual subscriptions to our online visibility management platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date the product is made available to customers. We currently operate subsidiaries in the United States, Spain, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Cyprus, Serbia, Poland, Germany, Armenia, Canada, and France. Our revenue is primarily generated through sales of our products around the globe. The largest portion of our revenue continues to be driven by customers based in the U.S. and UK, generating combined revenues of $49.0 million and $41.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We have one reportable segment. See Note 18 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We regularly review a number of factors that have impacted, and we believe will continue to impact, our results of operations and growth. These factors include: Acquiring New Paying Customers We expect increasing demand for third-party online visibility software to accelerate adoption of our platform. Our recurring subscription model provides significant visibility into our future results and we believe Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) is the best indicator of the scale of our platform, while 26 mitigating fluctuations due to seasonality and contract term. We define ARR as of a given date as the monthly recurring revenue that we expect to contractually receive from all paid subscription agreements that are actively generating revenue as of that date multiplied by 12. We include both monthly recurring paid subscriptions, which renew automatically unless canceled, as well as annual recurring paid subscriptions so long as we do not have any indication that a customer has canceled or intends to cancel its subscription and we continue to generate revenue from them. As of March 31, 2024, we had nearly 112,000 paying customers, accounting for $354.2 million in ARR, an increase from 100,000 paying customers accounting for $293.0 million in ARR as of March 31, 2023. Retaining and Expanding Sales to Our Existing Customers We serve a diverse customer base across a variety of sizes and industries that is focused on maximizing their online visibility. We believe there is significant opportunity to expand within our existing customer base as customers often initially purchase our entry-level subscription, which offers lower usage limits and limited user licenses, as well as fewer features. We have demonstrated the ability to expand contract values with our existing customers as they use our products and recognize the critical nature of our platform and often seek premium offerings through incremental usage, features, add-ons, and additional user licenses. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate enables us to evaluate our ability to retain and expand subscription revenue generated from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 was approximately 107%. We calculate our dollar-based net revenue retention rate as of the end of a period by using (a) the revenue from our customers during the twelve month period ending one year prior to such period as the denominator and (b) the revenue from those same customers during the twelve months ending as of the end of such period as the numerator. This calculation excludes revenue from new customers and any non-recurring revenue. We have successfully increased ARR per paying customer over time and believe this metric is an indicator of our ability to grow the long-term value of our platform. We expect ARR per paying customer to continue to increase as customers adopt our premium offerings and we continue to introduce new products and functionality. Our ARR per paying customer as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 was $3,163 and $2,881, respectively, in absolute unrounded amounts. We define ARR per paying customer as of a given date as ARR from our paying customers as of that date divided by the number of paying customers as of that date. We define the number of paying customers as the number of unique business and individual customers as of a given date. We define a business customer as all accounts that contain a common non-individual business email domain (e.g., all subscriptions with an email domain of @XYZ.com will be considered to be one customer), and an individual customer as an account that uses an individual non-business email domain. Sustaining Product and Technology Innovation We have a strong track record of developing new products that have high adoption rates among our paying customers. Our product development organization plays a critical role in continuing to enhance the effectiveness and differentiation of our technology in an evolving landscape and maximizing retention of our existing customers. We intend to continue investing in product development to improve our data assets, expand our products and enhance our technological capabilities. 27 Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we believe that non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin, each a non-GAAP financial measure, are useful in evaluating the performance of our business. Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations as GAAP income (loss) from operations, excluding stock based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs and other one-time expenses outside the ordinary course of business (for example, our Exit Costs incurred primarily in 2022). We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP income (loss) from operations divided by GAAP revenue. We believe investors may want to consider our results with and without the effects of these items in order to compare our financial performance with that of other companies that exclude such items and to compare our results to prior periods. We monitor non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin as two measures of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our future performance and allows us to better understand the operating results of our business. We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software development costs. We define free cash flow margin as free cash flow divided by GAAP revenue. We monitor free cash flow and free cash flow margin as two measures of our overall business performance, which enables us to analyze our future performance without the effects of non-cash items and allows us to better understand the cash needs of our business. While we believe that non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful in evaluating our business, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow and free cash flow margin are each non-GAAP financial measures that have limitations as an analytical tool, and non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin should not be considered as an alternative to, or substitute for, income (loss) from operations in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow and free cash flow margin should not be considered as an alternative to, or substitute for, net cash provided by (used in) operating activities in accordance with GAAP. The utility of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as each measure does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate free cash flow and free cash flow margin differently or not at all, which reduces the usefulness of free cash flow and free cash flow margin as a tool for comparison. A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities is provided below. We recommend that you review the reconciliation of GAAP income (loss) from operations to non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, the reconciliation of GAAP income (loss) from operations margin to non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, provided below, the reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and the reconciliation of free cash flow margin to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (as a percentage of revenue), the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and that you not rely on non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, 28 non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin, free cash flow, free cash flow margin or any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Income (loss) from operations $ 1,468 $ (10,768) Stock-based compensation expense 5,115 2,796 Amortization of acquired intangibles 692 522 Restructuring and other costs 2,124 983 Acquisition-related costs, net 338 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 9,737 $ (6,467) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Income (loss) from operations (as a percentage of revenue) 1.7 % (15.2) % Stock-based compensation expense (as a percentage of revenue) 6.0 % 3.9 % Amortization of acquired intangibles (as a percentage of revenue) 0.8 % 0.7 % Restructuring and other costs (as a percentage of revenue) 2.5 % 1.4 % Acquisition-related costs, net (as a percentage of revenue) 0.4 % % Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations margin 11.4 % (9.2) % Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 14,779 $ (3,609) Net cash used in investing activities (31,981) (18,889) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 434 (451) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (507) 73 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (17,275) $ (22,876) Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 14,779 $ (3,609) Purchases of property and equipment (759) (268) Capitalization of internal-use software costs (2,015) (1,056) Free cash flow $ 12,005 $ (4,933) Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 17.2 % (5.1) % Purchases of property and equipment (as a percentage of revenue) (0.9) % (0.4) % Capitalization of internal-use software costs (as a percentage of revenue) (2.3) % (1.5) % Free cash flow margin 14.0 % (7.0) % 29 Components of our Results of Operations Revenue We generate nearly all of our revenue from subscriptions to our online visibility management platform under a SaaS model. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date on which we provide the customer access to our platform. Our customers do not have the right to take possession of our software. Our subscriptions are generally non-cancellable during the contractual subscription term, however our subscription contracts contain a right to a refund if requested within seven days of purchase. We offer our paid products to customers via monthly or annual subscription plans, as well as one-time and ongoing add-ons. Our subscription-based model enables customers to select a plan based on their needs and license our platform on a per user per month basis. As of March 31, 2024, we served nearly 112,000 paying customers in various industries, and our revenue is not concentrated with any single customer or industry. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our platform, acquiring data, merchant account fees, and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation expenses related to the management of our data centers, our customer support team, and our customer success team. In addition to these expenses, we incur third-party service provider costs, such as data center and networking expenses, data acquisition costs, allocated overhead costs, depreciation and amortization expense associated with our property and equipment, and amortization of capitalized software development costs and intangible assets acquired through business combinations and asset acquisitions. We allocate overhead costs, such as rent and facility costs, certain information technology and data analytics costs, and employee benefit costs to all departments based primarily on headcount. As such, general overhead expenses are reflected in cost of revenue and each operating expense category. We expect our cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars due to expenditures related to the purchase of hardware, data, expansion, and support of our data center operations and customer support/success teams. We have seen improvement in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue, and expect it to remain near current levels. It may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing of significant expenditures. To the extent that our customer base grows, we intend to continue to invest additional resources in expanding the delivery capability of our products and other services. The timing of these additional expenses could affect our cost of revenue, both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in any particular quarterly or annual period. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing department, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, online advertising expenses, and marketing and promotional expenses, as well as allocated overhead costs. We expense all costs as they are incurred, excluding sales commissions identified as incremental costs to obtain a contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the average period of benefit, which we estimate to be two years. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate as a percentage of revenue based on the timing of related costs. 30 New sales personnel require training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity; as such, the costs we incur in connection with the hiring of new sales personnel in a given period are not typically offset by increased revenue in that period and may not result in new revenue if these sales personnel fail to become productive. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel and related costs, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead costs. Research and development expenses also include depreciation expense and other expenses associated with product development. Other than internal-use software costs that qualify for capitalization, research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We plan to increase the dollar amount of our investment in research and development for the foreseeable future as we focus on developing new products, features, and enhancements to our platform. We believe that investing in the development of new products, features, and enhancements improves customer experience, makes our platform more attractive to new paying customers, and provides us with opportunities to expand sales to existing paying customers and convert free customers to paying customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and related expenses, including salaries, benefits, incentive compensation, and stock-based compensation, associated with our finance, legal, human resources, IT, and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expenses also include professional fees for external legal, accounting, and other consulting services, insurance, depreciation and amortization expense, as well as allocated overhead. We expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a U.S. securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, increases in insurance premiums, investor relations and professional services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. Exit Costs All costs associated with our relocation efforts are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations in our income from continuing operations under the line item, Exit Costs. Exit costs in connection with our relocation efforts include employee severance and fringe benefit costs and other associated relocation costs. We do not expect to incur exit costs associated with our relocation efforts in future periods. Other Income, Net Included in other income, net are foreign currency transaction gains and losses. In accordance with ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters, we redetermined our functional currencies of our international locations as of January 1, 2022, when it was determined the local currencies for these regions were most appropriate. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, the functional currencies of our international locations were the local currencies for these regions. Any differences resulting from the re-measurement of assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded within other income, net. We expect our foreign currency exchange gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future as foreign currency exchange rates change. Other income, net also includes amounts for interest income and expense, other miscellaneous income and expense, and gains and losses unrelated to our core operations. We have elected the fair value option in respect to the accounting for our convertible note investments, allowing for increases and 31 decreases in the fair value of such investments to be recorded to other income, net for each reporting period. Interest expense is related to our finance leases. Income Tax Provision We operate in several tax jurisdictions and are subject to taxes in each country or jurisdiction in which we conduct business. We account for income taxes in accordance with the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using statutory rates. In addition, this method requires a valuation allowance against net deferred tax assets if, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To date, we have incurred cumulative net losses and maintain a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. Our tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 primarily relates to the tax provision recorded on the earnings of our profitable foreign subsidiaries and the requirement to capitalize and amortize certain research and development costs which results in a current U.S. tax provision but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. Our tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily relates to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions. 32 Results of Operations The following tables set forth information comparing our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 85,812 $ 70,870 Cost of revenue (1) 14,645 12,639 Gross profit 71,167 58,231 Operating expenses Sales and marketing (1) 33,921 35,496 Research and development (1) 17,304 13,880 General and administrative (1) 18,474 18,640 Exit costs 983 Total operating expenses 69,699 68,999 Income (loss) from operations 1,468 (10,768) Other income, net 3,639 1,705 Income (loss) before income taxes 5,107 (9,063) Provision for income taxes 3,104 797 Net income (loss) $ 2,003 $ (9,860) __________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 39 $ 17 Sales and marketing 770 528 Research and development 636 343 General and administrative 3,670 1,908 Total stock-based compensation $ 5,115 $ 2,796 33 The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated (amounts may not sum due to rounding): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 17 % 18 % Gross profit 83 % 82 % Operating expenses Sales and marketing 40 % 50 % Research and development 20 % 20 % General and administrative 22 % 26 % Exit costs % 1 % Total operating expenses 82 % 97 % Income (loss) from operations 2 % (15) % Other income, net 4 % 2 % Income (loss) before income taxes 6 % (13) % Provision for income taxes 4 % 1 % Net income (loss) 2 % (14) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Our revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 85,812 $ 70,870 $ 14,942 21 % Revenue increased in all regions. The majority of this increase was driven by an increase in the number of paying customers from over 100,000 as of March 31, 2023 to nearly 112,000 as of March 31, 2024. The increases in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were also driven by growth in user licenses per customer, attach rates, and increased revenue per customer related to larger customers. We define attach rates as the ratio of the number of paying customers who purchase specific add-ons to the number of total paying customers. 34 Revenue based upon the locations of our paying customers during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue: United States $ 40,646 $ 34,747 United Kingdom 8,324 7,007 Other 36,842 29,116 Total revenue $ 85,812 $ 70,870 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 85,812 $ 70,870 $ 14,942 21 % Cost of revenue $ 14,645 $ 12,639 $ 2,006 16 % Gross profit $ 71,167 $ 58,231 $ 12,936 22 % Gross margin 83 % 82 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, cost of revenue increased by $2.0 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This increase is primarily driven by a $0.9 million increase in integration and data costs commensurate with revenue growth and a $0.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization costs related to increased capitalized software amortization. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 33,921 $ 35,496 $ (1,575) (4) % Percentage of total revenue 40 % 50 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, sales and marketing expense decreased by $1.6 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by a $5.5 35 million decrease in marketing and advertising expense due to lower paid search costs. This decrease was partially offset by a $3.5 million increase in personnel costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 17,304 $ 13,880 $ 3,424 25 % Percentage of total revenue 20 % 20 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, research and development costs increased by $3.4 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily as a result of a $2.1 million increase to other costs, primarily driven by increases to outsourcing and IT related costs, and a $1.4 million increase in personnel costs driven by an 8% increase in headcount compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 18,474 $ 18,640 $ (166) (1) % Percentage of total revenue 22 % 26 % For the three months ended March 31, 2024, general and administrative expense decreased by $0.2 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by a $1.9 million decrease to other costs and $1.2 million decrease to professional services, primarily driven by a decrease in consulting fees. This decrease was offset by a $3.0 million increase in personnel costs, which includes a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation. Exit Costs All costs associated with our relocation efforts are included in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations in our income from continuing operations under the line item, Exit Costs. Exit costs in connection with our relocation efforts include employee severance and fringe benefit costs, and other associated relocation costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, exit costs were not incurred. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 exit costs totaled $1.0 million, related to our relocation efforts. 36 Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 3,639 $ 1,705 $ 1,934 113% Percentage of total revenue 4 % 2 % The increase in other income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year was primarily due to an increase in foreign currency exchange gain (loss). Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 3,104 $ 797 $ 2,307 289 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 1 % The increase in the provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the corresponding periods of the prior year was primarily due to the effects of changes in the tax provision recorded on the earnings of our profitable foreign subsidiaries and the impact of the requirement to capitalize and amortize certain research and development costs which results in a current provision for U.S. taxes but no deferred tax benefit as a result of the valuation allowance maintained against our net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds of our initial public offering in March 2021 and our follow-on offering in November 2021, which totaled $213.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses paid or payable by us, and the net proceeds we received through private sales of equity securities, as well as sales of premium subscriptions to our platform. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $41.4 million, short-term investments of $201.8 million, and accounts receivable of $7.1 million. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been to fund operations, invest in capital expenditures and short-term investments, and strategically acquire new businesses. This cash is held in deposits and money market funds. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows 37 necessary to expand our operations, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our customers for subscription services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for online advertising, personnel costs across the sales and marketing and product and development departments, and hosting costs. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $14.8 million. The activity resulted from a net income of $2.0 million adjusted for non-cash add backs of $11.2 million and a net cash inflow of $1.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $5.1 million of stock-based compensation expense and $3.0 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $3.5 million increase in deferred contract costs, a $2.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, a $1.1 million decrease in operating lease liability, and a $0.4 million decrease in other current liabilities. These outflows were partially offset by a $5.7 million increase in deferred revenue, a $1.4 million increase in accrued expenses, a $1.0 million increase in accounts payable, and a $0.8 million increase to accounts receivable. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $3.6 million. The activity resulted from a net loss of $9.9 million adjusted for non-cash add backs of $6.4 million and a net cash outflow of $0.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $2.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, $2.4 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs related to capitalized commissions, and $1.5 million of depreciation and amortization expense. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $4.2 million decrease in accounts payable and a $2.6 million increase in deferred contract costs. These outflows were partially offset by a $7.0 million increase in deferred revenue due to the addition of new customers and expansion of the business. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $32.0 million and primarily consisted of $46.7 million in purchases of short-term investments and $7.0 in funding of the investment loan receivable. This activity was partially offset by $25.0 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $18.9 million and primarily consisted of $103.8 million in purchases of short-term investments. This activity was partially offset by $87.7 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $0.4 million and consisted of $0.8 million relating to the exercise of stock options partially offset by $0.4 million of cash outflows related to the payment of finance leases. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.5 million and consisted of $0.8 million of cash outflows related to the payment of finance leases partially offset by inflows of $0.3 million related to proceeds from shares issued in connection with the employee stock purchase plan. 38 Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under leases for office space and leases for data center facilities. For more information regarding our lease obligations, see Note 4 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to our leases, we also have multi-year commitments with certain data providers expiring at various dates through 2026. For more information regarding our commitments with data providers, see Note 15 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We expect to fund these obligations with cash flows from operations and cash on our balance sheet. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Seethe section titled Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted in Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of unaudited condensed consolidated financial statementsin conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under the heading Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and in Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.