Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" and additional factors that accompany the related forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and in material incorporated herein and therein by reference. In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein that may cause actual performance and results to differ materially from those predicted, any such forward-looking information should not be regarded as representations or guarantees by the Company of future performance or results, or that its objectives or plans will be achieved, or that any of its operating expectations or financial forecasts will be realized. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information contained herein, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly release the results of any update or revision to any forward-looking statement that may be made to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated or future events, or otherwise. In addition to regarding forward-looking statements with caution, you should consider that the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to draw conclusions and make interpretations, judgments, assumptions and estimates with respect to certain factual, legal, and accounting matters. Our financial statements might have been materially impacted if we had reached different conclusions or made different interpretations, judgments, assumptions or estimates. 3 PART I Item 1. Business General We are a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products and were incorporated in Delaware in 1960. We design, develop and market a wide range of products for commercial applications, the majority of which are sold into the enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer and industrial end-markets. Enterprise Computing : datacenters, passive optical networks, desktops, notebooks, servers, graphic boards, monitors, printers and other computer peripherals. Communications : base stations, optical networks, carrier networks, switches and routers, cable modems, wireless LAN and other communication infrastructure equipment. High-End Consumer : handheld products, set-top boxes, digital televisions, tablet computers, digital video recorders and other consumer equipment. Industrial : broadcast studio equipment, automated meter reading, military and aerospace, medical, security systems, automotive, industrial and home automation, video security and surveillance and other industrial equipment. Our end-customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers, including Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., LG Electronics, Sharp Corporation, Nokia Solutions and Networks, Itron, Apple, Inc., Phonak International, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Google Inc., Amazon.com Inc., and ZTE Corporation. Overview of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is broadly divided into analog and digital semiconductor products. Analog semiconductors condition and regulate real world functions such as temperature, speed, sound and electrical current. Digital semiconductors process binary information, such as that used by computers. Mixed-signal devices incorporate both analog and digital functions into a single chip and provide the ability for digital electronics to interface with the outside world. The market for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors differs from the market for digital semiconductors. The analog and mixed-signal industry is typically characterized by longer product life cycles than the digital industry. In addition, analog semiconductor manufacturers tend to have lower capital investment requirements for manufacturing because their facilities tend to be less dependent than digital producers on state-of-the-art production equipment to manufacture leading edge process technologies. The end-product markets for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors are more varied and more specialized than the relatively standardized digital semiconductor product markets. Another difference between the analog and digital markets is the amount of available talented labor. The analog industry relies more heavily than the digital industry on design and applications talent to distinguish its products from one another. Digital expertise is extensively taught in universities due to its overall market size, while analog and mixed-signal expertise tends to be learned over time based on experience and hands-on training. Consequently, personnel with analog training are scarcer than digital trained engineers. This has historically made it more difficult for new suppliers to quickly develop products and gain significant market share. Advancements in digital signal processing technology typically drive the need for corresponding advancements in analog and mixed-signal solutions. We believe that the diversity of our applications allows us to take advantage of areas of relative market strength and reduces our vulnerability to competitive pressure in any one area. Business Strategy Our objective is to be a leading supplier of analog and mixed-signal semiconductor devices to the fastest growing segments of our target markets. We intend to leverage our pool of skilled technical personnel to develop new products, or, where appropriate, use acquisitions to either accelerate our position in the fastest growing areas or to gain entry into these areas. In order to capitalize on our strengths in analog and mixed-signal processing design, development and marketing, we intend to pursue the following strategies: Leverage our rare analog design expertise We have developed a strategy to invest heavily in human resources needed to define, design and market high-performance analog platform products. We have built a team of experienced engineers who combine industry expertise with advanced 4 semiconductor design expertise to meet customer requirements and enable our customers to get their products to market rapidly. We intend to leverage this strategy to achieve new levels of integration, power reduction and performance, enabling our customers to achieve differentiation in their end systems. Continue to release proprietary new products, achieve new design wins, and cross-sell products We are focused on developing unique, new, proprietary products that bring value to our target customers in our target markets. These products typically are differentiated in performance but are priced competitively. We also focus on achieving design wins for our products with current and future customers. Design wins are indications by the customer that they intend to incorporate our products into their new designs. Although we believe that a design win is an indicator of future potential growth, it does not inevitably result in us being awarded business or receiving a purchase commitment. Our technical talent works closely with our customers in securing design wins, defining new products and in implementing and integrating our products into their systems. We also focus on selling our complete portfolio of products to our existing customers, as we believe the technical expertise of our marketing and sales team allows us to identify and capitalize on cross-selling opportunities. Focus on fast-growing market segments and regions We have chosen to target the analog segments of some of the fastest growing end-markets. We participate in these markets by focusing on specific product areas within the analog and mixed-signal market, including products for handheld equipment, high-end consumer equipment, communications infrastructure and certain broad-based industrial markets. All of these markets are characterized by their need for leading-edge, high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductor technologies. The enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer and industrial end-markets we supply are characterized by several trends that we believe drive demand for our products. The key trends that we believe are significant for our future growth include: Increasing bandwidth over high-speed networks, fueling growth in high speed voice, video and data transmission Increasing electronic system requirements for smaller, lighter, more highly integrated and feature rich devices Increasing need for more efficient energy management in the home and in industrial environments and the proliferation of green standards Our products address these market trends by providing solutions that are ultra-low power thus extending battery life, small form factor enabling smaller devices, highly integrated enabling more functionality within devices and high performance enabling product differentiation within our customer base. Additionally, as communications functions are increasingly integrated into a range of systems and devices, these products require analog sensing, processing and control capabilities, which increases the number and size of our end-markets. Finally, industrial, medical, high-end consumer and other end-market applications have increasingly incorporated data processing and communications features into their end systems resulting in more complex power and protection requirements, which in turn, has broadened the opportunities for selling our power and protection devices. We believe that certain emerging geographies, such as China, represent opportunities for added sales and end-customer diversity. Accordingly, we have bolstered our efforts in these regions to enhance our ability to expand our customer base. Leverage outsourced semiconductor fabrication capacity We outsource most of our manufacturing in order to focus more of our resources on defining, developing and marketing our products. Our primary outside wafer foundries are based in China, Israel, the United States, Europe and Taiwan. Our largest wafer source is a foundry based in China. We believe that outsourcing provides us numerous benefits, including capital efficiency, the flexibility to adopt and leverage emerging process technologies without significant investment risk and a more variable cost of goods, which provides us with greater operating flexibility. Products and Technology We design, develop, manufacture and market high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductor products. We operate and account for results in one reportable segment through four product lines: Signal Integrity and Timing, Protection, Power Management and High-Reliability and Wireless and Sensing. We have determined that one reportable segment most properly reflects our operations and internal decision making. Our product and service portfolio is used in one business (the analog and mixed-signal sector of the semiconductor industry), and it operates and competes in one business activity and economic environment. Our four product lines share customers, intellectual property, manufacturing resources, sales channels, marketing support and research processes. 5 On March 20, 2012, we acquired, through our wholly-owned subsidiary Semtech Canada Inc., all outstanding equity interests of Gennum Corporation (Gennum) (TSX: GND), a leading supplier of high speed analog and mixed-signal semiconductors for the optical communications and video broadcast markets. Our primary reasons for the acquisition were to broaden our existing portfolio of high performance analog platforms and to acquire a portfolio of high-speed data communications and video platforms to create one of the industrys most complete and robust high-speed analog and mixed signal portfolios. In addition, Gennums strong position in the emerging high-definition ("HD") video surveillance market further diversifies our portfolio of high-performance analog semiconductors and provides cross-selling potential with the combined customer base. Since the time of the acquisition, we have reduced our level of investments in the 40 Gbps and 100 Gbps long-haul transport market as a result of increased competition from customers' internally developed solutions and pricing pressure which resulted in our recognizing numerous charges, including impairment of goodwill, finite-lived intangibles and long-lived assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 as discussed further in Item 7 of this report. On March 7, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Cycleo SAS (Cycleo), a privately held company based in France that develops intellectual property (IP) for wireless long-range semiconductor products used in smart metering and other industrial and consumer markets. This transaction, which was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, complements our current wireless offerings and will bring customers a set of high-end, digitally enhanced wireless solutions. Our product lines include: Signal Integrity and Timing Products . In December 2013 we combined our previous Advanced Communications and Gennum Product groups to create the Signal Integrity and Timing Product group. We design, develop and market a portfolio of optical communications, broadcast video, active cable transceiver and backplane products used in a wide variety of enterprise computing, industrial, communications and high-end consumer applications. Our broadcast video products offer advanced solutions for next generation video formats, ever increasing data rates and evolving I/O and distance requirements. Our security and surveillance products for high-definition closed circuit television ("HDcctv") enable upgrade of analog closed circuit television ("cctv") installations to full digital HD, leveraging the installed base of COAX cabling, and our fully integrated transmit and receive products enable the highest performance, longest reach HDcctv standards-compliant designs. Our comprehensive portfolio of integrated circuits ("ICs") for optical transceivers, backplane applications and consumer high-speed interfaces ranges from 100Mbps to 100Gbps and supports key industry standards such as Fibre Channel, Infiniband, Ethernet, PON, SONET and PCI Express. We also design, develop and market a portfolio of proprietary advanced wired communication, ultra-high speed Serializer/Deserializer (SerDes") products for long-haul optical transport communication. These ICs perform transmission functions used in high-speed networks at 40Gbps and 100Gbps. Our advanced communications products also feature a leading integrated timing sync solution for packet based communication networks and are used in a variety of communications and industrial applications. Protection Products . We design, develop and market high performance protection devices, which are often referred to as transient voltage suppressors (TVS). TVS devices provide protection for electronic systems where voltage spikes (called transients), such as electrostatic discharge ("ESD") or secondary lightning surge energy that can permanently damage sensitive complementary metaloxidesemiconductor (CMOS) ICs. Our portfolio includes filter and termination devices that are integrated with the TVS devices. Our protection products feature low capacitance, providing robust protection while preserving signal integrity in high-speed networking and video interfaces. These products also operate at very low voltage needed for todays low voltage ICs. Our protection products can be found in a broad range of applications including smart phones, LCD TVs, set-top boxes, tablet computers, notebooks, base stations, routers, and industrial instruments. Power Management and High-Reliability Products . Power management products control, alter, regulate and condition the power supplies within electronic systems. The highest volume product types within the power management product line are switching voltage regulators, combination switching and linear regulators, smart regulators and charge pumps. Our power management products feature highly integrated devices for the telecom industry and low-power, small form factor and high-efficiency products for mobile phones, notebook computers, computer peripherals and other portable devices. The primary application for these products is power regulation for computer, communications, high-end consumer and industrial systems. Our high-reliability discrete semiconductor products comprised of rectifiers, assemblies (packaged discrete rectifiers) and other products are typically used to convert alternating currents (AC) into direct currents (DC) and to protect circuits against very high voltage spikes or high current surges. Our high-reliability products can be found in a broad range of applications including industrial, military, medical, automotive, aerospace and defense systems, including satellite communications. Wireless and Sensing Products . We design, develop and market a portfolio of specialized radio frequency (RF) functions used in a wide variety of industrial, medical and networking applications, and specialized sensing functions used in industrial and 6 consumer applications. Our wireless and sensing products feature industry leading and longest range industrial, scientific and medical (ISM) radio, enabling a lower total cost of ownership ("TCO") and increased reliability in all environments. Our unique sensing interface platforms can interface to any sensor and output digital data in any form. Our wireless and sensing products can be found in a broad range of applications in the industrial, medical and consumer markets. Our sales by product line are as follows: Fiscal Years (in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Signal Integrity and Timing $ 288,374 $ 263,090 $ 139,695 Protection 198,514 198,866 209,726 Power Management and High-Reliability 58,295 66,427 74,056 Wireless and Sensing 49,794 50,444 57,124 Total $ 594,977 $ 578,827 $ 480,601 Semtech End-Markets Our products are sold to customers in the enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer, and industrial end-markets. Our estimate of sales by major end-markets are detailed below: Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2014 2013 2012 High-End Consumer 29 % 29 % 35 % Communications 27 % 31 % 39 % Industrial and Other 25 % 25 % 17 % Enterprise Computing 19 % 15 % 9 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % We believe that our diversity in end-markets provides stability to our business and opportunity for growth. 7 The following table depicts our main product lines and their end-market and product applications: Typical End-Product Applications Product Groups Enterprise Computing Communications High-End Consumer Industrial / Other Signal Integrity and Timing Optical Transceiver Module ICs for ranging from 100Mb/s to 100Gb/s for Ethernet, Fiberchannel and CPRI protocols in Datacenter and Fiber to the Home applications, Backplane CDRs and signal conditioners for use in Data centre, storage and cloud computing networks Optical Transceiver Module ICs for ranging from 100Mb/s to 100Gb/s for Telecom applications Signal Conditioners for Thunderbolt Cables Serial Digital Interconnect interface ICs for Broadcast Video and HD Surveillance Protection Desktop PC/Notebooks, Ultrabooks 3G/4G Base stations, 10/100/1000 Routers/Switches Smartphones, tablets, wearables, cameras, TVs, settop boxes Measurement & instrumentation devices, Automobile Power Management and High-Reliability Servers, workstations, notebook computers, add-on cards, computer gaming systems, printers, copiers Network cards, routers and hubs, telecom network boards Smartphones, tablets, cameras, TVs, settop boxes Power supplies, industrial systems, military, aerospace, medical, automotive display Wireless and Sensing Smartphones, media players, tablets, LCD TVs, digital/still video cameras Automated meter readers, industrial automation, Internet of Things, keyless entry hearing aids Seasonality Historically, our results have reflected some seasonality, with demand levels generally being slightly lower in the computer and high-end consumer products segments during the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year in comparison to the second and third quarters. Intellectual Capital and Product Development The development of intellectual property (IP) and the resulting proprietary products is a critical success factor for us. Recruiting and retaining key technical talent is the foundation for designing, developing and selling this IP, in the form of new proprietary products, in the global marketplace. One of our strategies to recruit this talent is the establishment of multiple design center locations. As a result, we have design centers throughout the world. Circuit design engineers, layout engineers, product and test engineers, application engineers and field application engineers are our most valuable employees. Together they perform the critical tasks of design and layout of integrated circuits, turning these circuits into silicon devices, and conferring with customers about designing these devices into their applications. The majority of our engineers fit into one of these categories. Most of these engineers have many years of experience in the design, development and layout of circuits targeted for use in protection, advanced communications, power management and high-reliability, multimedia and data communications, and wireless and sensing applications. We also employ a number of software engineers and systems engineers that specialize in the development of software and systems architecture, who enable us to develop systems oriented products in select markets. In fiscal year 2014 , we incurred $137.4 million of product development and engineering expense. This represents 23% of net sales. These expenses included $7.7 million of impairment charges relating to the reorganization of the Advanced Communications reporting unit, prior to the integration with the Gennum reporting unit, which resulted from the Company's decision to reduce investments in the optical long-haul market. Product development and engineering costs were $120.0 million or 21% of net sales and $80.6 million or 17% of net sales in fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We intend to make further 8 investments in research and development in the future, which may include increasing our employee headcount and investing in design and development equipment. We occasionally enter into agreements with customers that allow us to recover certain costs associated with product design and engineering services. Any recovery for these services is recognized during the period in which services are performed, which historically lags behind the period in which we recognize expense. This difference in recognition timing can create volatility in our reported development and engineering expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales made directly to customers during fiscal year 2014 were approximately 57% of net sales. The remaining 43% of net sales were made through independent distributors. We have direct sales personnel located throughout the United States, Europe and Asia who manage the sales activities of independent sales representative firms and independent distributors. We expense our advertising costs as they are incurred. We operate internationally through our wholly owned Swiss and Canadian subsidiaries, Semtech International AG and Semtech Canada Corporation. Semtech International AG serves the European markets from its headquarters in Wil, Switzerland and through its wholly owned subsidiaries based in France, Germany, Neuchatel Switzerland, the United Kingdom, China and Malaysia. Semtech International AG maintains branch offices, either directly or through one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, in Taiwan, Korea and Japan. Semtech International AG also maintains representative offices in China. Semtech Canada Corporation serves the North American market for Gennum products, which are now part of the Signal Integrity and Timing group, from its headquarters in Burlington, Ontario. Semtech Canada Corporation also serves the European and Japanese markets through its wholly owned subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Japan. Independent representatives and distributors are also used to serve customers throughout the world. Some of our distributors and sales representatives also offer products from our competitors, as is customary in the industry. Customers, Sales Data and Backlog As a result of the breadth of our products and markets, we have a broad and balanced range of customers. Representative Customers by End-Markets: Enterprise Computing Communications High-End Consumer Industrial Hewlett-Packard Cisco Systems, Inc. LG Electronics Inc. General Atomics Sumitomo Electric Alcatel-Lucent Sharp Corporation Honeywell Inc. Oclaro, Inc. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Quanta Computer Itron, Inc. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Nokia Solutions and Networks Apple, Inc. Phonak International LuxNet Ericsson Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Raytheon Company Apple, Inc. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Electric Nokia Solutions and Networks Google Inc. ZTE Corporation Rockwell Automation Amazon.com Inc. Our customers include major original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and their subcontractors in the enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer and industrial end-markets. Our products are typically purchased by these customers for our performance, price, or technical support, as compared to our competitors. During fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , U.S. sales contributed 16% , 17% and 20% , respectively to our net sales. Foreign sales constituted 84% , 83% and 80% of our net sales during fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. A majority of foreign sales were to customers located in the Asia-Pacific region, with sales to customers located in South Korea, Japan, and China (including Hong Kong) comprising 11% , 11% , and 34% of our net sales, respectively, in fiscal year 2014 . No other foreign country comprised more than 7% of net sales in fiscal year 2014 . See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for additional financial information by geographic region. 9 A summary of net sales by region follows. Sales by Region Fiscal Years (in thousands, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Asia-Pacific $ 432,097 73 % $ 405,179 70 % $ 298,477 62 % North America 94,574 16 % 98,401 17 % 114,552 24 % Europe 68,306 11 % 75,247 13 % 67,572 14 % Total Net Sales $ 594,977 100 % $ 578,827 100 % $ 480,601 100 % The following table sets forth the concentration of net sales and accounts receivable among the customers that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales or accounts receivable in at least one of the fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 : Concentration of Net Sales - Significant Customers Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2014 2013 2012 Samsung Electronics (and affiliates) 12 % 12 % 13 % Huawei Technologies (and affiliates) 9 % 10 % 7 % Frontek Technology Corp 5 % 6 % 10 % Concentration of Accounts Receivable - Significant Customers Fiscal Years (percentage of net accounts receivable as of fiscal year end) 2014 2013 Samsung Electronics (and affiliates) 13 % 12 % Huawei Technologies (and affiliates) 9 % 14 % For fiscal year 2014 , end-market concentration for our significant customers was as follows: (percentage of net sales) Samsung Electronics (and affiliates) High-End Consumer 11 % (1) Communications 1 % Enterprise Computing 1 % Industrial and Other % Total 13 % (1) For Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., approximately 61% of the sales into the High-end Consumer end-market relate to products focused on the handheld market, which includes cell phones. Our backlog of orders as of the end of fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was approximately $84.4 million , $113.8 million and $75.6 million , respectively. The majority of our backlog is typically requested for delivery within six months. In markets where the end system life cycles are relatively short, customers typically request delivery in four to eight weeks. A backlog analysis at any given time gives little indication of our future business except on a short-term basis, principally within the next 45 days. We do not have any significant contracts with our customers calling for shipments over a period of more than 18 months. Manufacturing Capabilities Our strategy is to outsource the majority of our manufacturing functions to third-party foundries and assembly and test contractors. The third-party foundries fabricate silicon wafers and the assembly and test contractors package and test our products. We believe this outsourcing permits us to take advantage of the best available technology, leverage the capital investment of others, and reduce our operating costs associated with manufacturing assets. 10 We perform a limited amount of internal probe and final test activities at our facilities in Camarillo, Irvine, Redondo Beach and San Diego, California; Neuchatel, Switzerland; and Reynosa, Mexico. These activities accommodate situations in which tight coupling with product design is desirable or where there are unique requirements. Our packaged discrete rectifier products are packaged and tested in-house in Reynosa, Mexico. Almost all of our other products are packaged and tested by outside subcontractors. In keeping with our mostly fabless business model, we have no wafer fabrication facilities except for our operation in Reynosa, Mexico. For fiscal year 2014 , the Reynosa facility provided almost all of the silicon for our packaged discrete rectifier products, which were approximately 3% of our end product sales. The remaining 97% of our end products were supported with finished silicon wafers purchased from outside wafer foundries in China, Taiwan, Germany, Israel and France. We anticipate that more than 90% of all silicon wafers we require will come from outside foundries in fiscal year 2015 . Despite our use of outside wafer foundries for sourcing a majority of our silicon needs, we do maintain internal process development capabilities. Our process engineers work closely with our outside foundries on the improvement and development of process capabilities. In fiscal year 2014 , we purchased the vast majority of our wafers from approximately six different third-party wafer foundries and used various manufacturing processes, including Bipolar, High-Speed Bipolar, Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS), RF-CMOS, Bi-CMOS and Silicon Germanium ("SiGe") processes. While we do have some redundancy of fabrication processes by using multiple outside foundries, any interruption of supply by one or more of these foundries could materially impact us. As a result, we maintain some amount of business interruption insurance to help reduce the financial risk associated with a wafer supply interruption, but we are not fully insured against this risk. Although our products are made from basic materials (principally silicon, metals and plastics), all of which are available from a number of suppliers, capacity at wafer foundries sometimes becomes constrained. The limited availability of certain materials, such as silicon wafer substrates, may impact our suppliers ability to meet our demand needs or impact the price we are charged. The prices of certain other basic materials, such as metals, gases and chemicals used in the production of circuits have all increased in recent years as demand has grown for these basic commodities. In most cases we do not procure these materials ourselves, but we are nevertheless reliant on these materials for producing our products because our outside foundry and package and test subcontractors must procure them. To help minimize risks associated with constrained capacity, we use multiple foundries and have taken other steps to prevent supply interruptions at certain foundries and subcontractors. Our largest wafer source is a foundry in China. In fiscal year 2014 , this Chinese foundry provided 38% of our total silicon requirements in terms of cost of wafers purchased. We have consigned certain equipment to this foundry to support our specialized processes run at the foundry and to ensure a specified level of capacity over the next few years. While the provision of these assets to the wafer foundry may be factored into certain pricing arrangements with the foundry, the impact of any pricing adjustments is insignificant and does not impact our margin trends. Most of our ultra-high speed 40Gbps and 100Gbps SerDes products are dependent on a single fabrication facility, located within the United States, for wafers. We use third-party subcontractors to perform almost all of our assembly and test operations. A majority of our assembly and test activity is conducted by third-party subcontractors based in China, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, Korea and the Philippines. We have operations offices located in the Philippines, Malaysia and China that support and coordinate some of the worldwide shipment of products. We have installed our own test equipment at some of our packaging and testing subcontractors in order to ensure a certain level of capacity, assuming the subcontractor has ample employees to operate the equipment. Our arrangements with both outside wafer foundries and package and test subcontractors are designed to provide some assurance of capacity but are not expected to assure access to all the manufacturing capacity we may need in the future. Competition The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit key engineering talent, our ability to execute on new product developments and our ability to persuade customers to design these new products into their applications. Our industry is characterized by decreasing unit selling prices over the life of a product as the volumes typically increase. However, price decreases can sometimes be quite rapid and faster than the rate of increase of the associated product volumes. We believe we compete effectively based upon our ability to capitalize on efficiencies and economies of scale in production and sales, and our ability to maintain or improve our productivity and product yields to reduce manufacturing costs. 11 We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with numerous manufacturers of varying size, technical capability and financial strength. A number of these competitors are dependent on semiconductor products as their principal source of income, and some are much larger than we are. The number of competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in which we participate. We consider our primary competitors with respect to our Protection Products to include STMicroelectronics, NXP Semiconductors N.V., ON Semiconductor Corporation and Infineon Technologies AG. Our primary competitors with respect to our Signal Integrity and Timing products are Texas Instruments Incorporated, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., M/A-COM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc., Inphi Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation and our customers own internal solutions. With respect to our Power Management and High Reliability products, we consider our primary competitors to include Texas Instruments Incorporated, Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microsemi Corporation and Monolithic Power Systems. Our primary competitors with respect to our Wireless and Sensing products include Silicon Laboratories, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Atmel Corporation, Analog Devices Inc. and Cypress Semiconductor Corp. Intellectual Property and Licenses We have been granted 154 U.S. patents and 48 foreign patents and have numerous patent applications pending with respect to our products and to technologies associated with our business. The expiration dates of issued patents range from 2014 to 2031. Although we consider patents to be helpful in maintaining a competitive advantage, we do not believe they create definitive competitive barriers to entry. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. We have no revenue from patents that expire in 2014 and no significant revenue associated with patents that expire in 2015 or 2016. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Registration generally provides rights in addition to basic trademark protections and is typically renewable upon proof of continued use. We have registered, or are in the process of registering, our SEMTECH trademark in many jurisdictions. In one location use of this trademark is prohibited, but we are permitted to use our Semtech International trade name. This restriction has not had a material impact on our business to date and we do not anticipate it will have a material impact in the future. We also have registered certain materials in which we have copyright ownership, which provides additional protection for this intellectual property. Employees As of January 26, 2014 , we had 1,455 full-time employees. There were 526 employees in research and development, 240 in sales, marketing and field services, and 291 in general, administrative and finance. The remaining employees support operational activities, including product and test engineering, assembly, manufacturing, distribution and quality functions. We have not had a work stoppage in at least the last decade and the only unionized employees are approximately 192 Mexican nationals who work at our manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Our employee relations during the last fiscal year have been, and remain, satisfactory. We adjust our workforce from time to time to meet the changing needs of our business. Competition for key design engineering talent globally is significant. Government Regulations and Environmental Matters We are required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with numerous government regulations that are normal and customary to businesses in our industry and that operate in our markets and operating locations. Our sales that serve the military and aerospace markets primarily consist of our Microwave and High-Reliability products that have been qualified to be sold in these markets by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD). In order to maintain these qualifications, we must comply with certain specifications promulgated by the DOD. As part of maintaining these qualifications, we are routinely audited by the DOD. Based on current specifications, we believe we can maintain our qualifications for the foreseeable future. However, these specifications could be modified by the DOD in the future or we could become subject to other government requirements, which could make the manufacturing of these products more difficult and thus could adversely impact our profitability in the Power Management and High Reliability and Signal Integrity and Timing product lines. In fiscal year 2014, our sales that serve military and aerospace markets made up 5% of net sales. The U.S. State Department has determined that a small number of special assemblies from the Power Management and High Reliability and Signal Integrity and Timing product lines are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). We have a Technical Assistance Agreement in place that permits us to assemble certain of these products in Mexico. Other products 12 subject to ITAR regulations are manufactured in our Redondo Beach, CA facilities. International shipments of these products require a State Department license. Our facilities throughout the world are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and we believe our operations are in substantial compliance with those laws and regulations. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, liabilities under various statutes for the cleanup of pollutants at locations we have operated and at third-party disposal and recycling sites we have used. During fiscal years 2014 and 2012 , the expense incurred with respect to these clean up matters was not material. In fiscal year 2013, we recorded a $2.5 million environmental reserve associated with the November 2012 draft clean up and abatement order discussed below. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations could subject our ongoing operations to different or additional environmental standards that could increase our cost of compliance in the future. In addition, our cost of doing business could increase if our suppliers increase prices to recoup the cost of their compliance with environmental laws or regulations. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. We have used an environmental firm, specializing in hydrogeology, to perform monitoring of the groundwater at our former facility in Newbury Park, California that was leased for approximately forty years. We vacated the building in May 2002. Certain contaminants have been found in the local groundwater and site soils. Groundwater monitoring results to date over a number of years suggest that a measurable amount of groundwater contaminants of concern are believed to come from, or be contributed by, in full or in material part, adjacent facilities and/or to come from environmental cleanup operations separately conducted on the adjacent facilities, never owned or occupied by us. Responsibility for soil contamination remains under investigation. The location of key soil contamination (and some related site groundwater impact associated with the soil contamination) is concentrated in and found to emanate from an area of an underground storage tank that we believe to have been installed and primarily used in the early 1960s by a former tenant at the site who preceded our tenancy. The applicable regulatory agency having authority over the site issued joint instructions in November 2008, ordering us and the current owner of the site to perform additional assessments and surveys, and to create ongoing groundwater monitoring plans before any final regulatory action for no further action may be approved. In September 2009, the regulatory agency issued supplemental instructions to us and the current site owner regarding previously ordered site assessments, surveys and groundwater monitoring. In November 2012, the regulatory agency listed two more potentially responsible parties to the matter, based on historical evidence of past occupancy or operations at the site dating to the 1960s. In addition, the regulatory agencys November 2012 action included a draft cleanup and abatement order to all the parties. Responses to the draft orders were submitted in a timely manner by all the parties in January 2013. In October 2013, the regulatory agency issued a final cleanup and abatement order. The October 2013 order removed the two additional potentially responsible parties from further participation or liability under the order. The October 2013 order was consistent and duplicative of the November 2012 draft order in all other material respects, including the scope of proposed additional site work, monitoring, and proposed remediation activities. We have filed an appeal of the October 2013 order seeking reconsideration of the removal of the two other potentially responsible parties, and seeking clarification of certain other factual findings by the regulatory agency. Other parties have filed their own responses to the October 2013 order. Further action and response from the regulatory agency is pending. The parties are expected to work cooperatively in responding to and determining the appropriate scope and extent of additional site investigative and categorization work, as well as in relation to any ultimate clean up and abatement work. We have accrued liabilities where it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost or amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Based upon, and in anticipation of the likely outcome associated with the November 2012 draft cleanup and abatement order and the October 2013 final cleanup and abatement order, we engaged an environmental firm to assist in an assessment of this site consistent with the direction and scope of the cleanup and abatement order. Based on our preliminary assessment following the November 2012 draft cleanup and abatement order, which has been reviewed now again under the October 2013 final cleanup and abatement order pending the current appeal by us and other impacted parties, we have determined a likely range of probable loss between $2.5 million and $5.7 million. Given the as yet unresolved status of the cleanup and abatement order and uncertainties associated with environmental assessment and the remediation activities, we are unable to determine a best estimate within the range of loss. Therefore, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, we recorded the minimum amount of $2.5 million under Accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets, and under Selling, general and administrative in the consolidated statements of operations. These estimates could change as a result of changes in planned remedial actions, further actions from the regulatory agency, remediation technology, and other factors. Available Information General information about us can be found on our website at www.semtech.com . The information on our website is for informational purposes only and should not be relied on for investment purposes. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. We make available free of charge, either by direct access on our website or a link to the SEC website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically 13 filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available directly at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not now known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As discussed earlier in Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of such risks and uncertainties and certain factors including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, information under the section "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and additional factors that accompany the related forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company's other filings with the SEC, and in material incorporated herein and therein by reference. In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein that may cause actual performance and results to differ materially from those predicted, any such forward-looking information should not be regarded as representations or guarantees by the Company of future performance or results, or that its objectives or plans will be achieved or that any of its operating expectations or financial forecasts will be realized. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information contained herein, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly release the results of any update or revision to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated or future events, or otherwise. Risks Relating to General Business Conditions Our future results may fluctuate, fail to match past performance or fail to meet expectations. Our results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to match our past performance or fail to meet our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. Our results and related ratios, such as gross margin, operating income percentage and effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of: general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products; seasonality and variability in the computer market and our other end-markets; the timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; product obsolescence; the scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers; the cyclical nature of demand for our customers products; our ability to predict and meet evolving industry standards and consumer preferences; our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production; our ability to integrate and realize synergies from recent acquisitions; changes in manufacturing yields; capacity utilization; product mix and pricing; movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside suppliers; the manufacturing and delivery capabilities of our subcontractors; and litigation and regulatory matters. As a result of these factors, our past financial results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. 14 Downturns in the business cycle could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, which are characterized by reduced product demand, production overcapacity, increased levels of inventory, industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors and the significant erosion of average selling prices. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations. The growth rate of the global economy is one of the factors affecting demand for semiconductor components. Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth including increased price inflation for goods, services or materials, rising interest rates in the United States and the rest of the world, or tight credit markets. In addition, economic slowdowns may also affect our customers ability to pay for our products. Accordingly, economic slowdowns may harm our business. Current global economic conditions could reduce demand for our products. Uncertainty about global economic conditions can pose a risk to the overall economy by causing fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending. Demand for our products could be different from our expectations due to many factors including changes in business and economic conditions, conditions in the credit market that affect consumer confidence, customer acceptance of our products, changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory held by vendors. Business interruptions could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and our business could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake. We generally do not maintain flood coverage, including for our Asian locations where certain of our operations support and sales offices are located. Such flood coverage has become very expensive; as a result we have elected not to purchase this coverage. If one of these locations were to experience a major flood, our business may be harmed. Our business could be harmed if natural disasters interfere with production of wafers by our suppliers, with assembly and testing of products by our subcontractors, or with our distribution network. We maintain some business interruption insurance to help reduce the effect of such business interruptions, but we are not fully insured against such risks. Likewise, our business could be adversely impacted if a natural disaster were to shut down or significantly curtail production by one or more of our end customers. Any such loss of revenue due to a slowdown or cessation of end customer demand is uninsured. When natural disasters such as an earthquake or other causes result in wide-spread destruction, the impact on our business may not be readily apparent. This is especially true when trying to assess the impact of the disaster on our end customers, who themselves may not fully understand the impact of the event on their businesses. The full extent and scope of natural disaster impacts, both in terms of direct impact on us and our supply chain, as well as on our end customers (to include their own supply chain issues as well as end-market issues), may not be known for a considerable period of time following the disaster. When any such natural disaster occurs, there can be no assurance that our results of operations may not be materially affected as a result of the impact of the disaster on us or on our end customers. We rely on third party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors to assembly and test sites, primarily in Asia, and for shipments of our final product to customers. This includes ground and air transportation. Any significant disruption of such freight business globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Business interruption insurance may not provide enough protection to compensate us for losses that may occur. Accordingly, any of these disruptions could significantly harm our business. Terrorist attacks, wars and other acts of violence, such as those that may result from the tension in the Middle East and the Korean peninsula, or any other national or international crisis, calamity or emergency, may result in interruption to the business activities of many entities, business losses and overall disruption of the economy at many levels. These events may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. Additionally, these events or armed conflicts may cause some of our customers or potential customers to reduce the level of expenditures on their services and products that ultimately may reduce our revenue. The consequences of these reductions are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, as a result of these events, insurance premiums for businesses may increase and the scope of coverage may be decreased. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our business and properties. To the extent that these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending, or our inability to effectively market our services and products, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 15 We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Historically, certain regions in Mexico have experienced high levels of violence. Any significant disruption of our operations at this facility could materially affect our ability to generate revenues for certain products within our High-Reliability product line. Some of the products that we produce at this facility require certification by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). Failure to secure or maintain the required certification, either directly through the DCAA or through a qualifying third party would materially affect our authorization to manufacture applicable products at this facility, and our revenue for certain products within our High-Reliability product line could materially decline. An audit was performed in May 2012 by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Land and Maritime office, which is the Department of Defense (DoD) agency having oversight responsibility for applicable products manufactured in this facility. We received a letter of certification allowing us to continue producing High-Reliability products in 2013. The applicable certification will maintain our listing on the DoD Qualified Parts List (QPL) as a MIL-PRF-19500 Semiconductor Manufacturer of JAN, JANTX, JANTXV and JANS quality level components. The DLA has indicated, barring any unforeseen circumstances, that our next surveillance audit may occur in early 2015. Semtech has been continuously certified to produce QPL components for over 20 years without lapse. A large percentage of our sales are to customers located in Asia and a large percentage of our products are manufactured in Asia. One of our largest customer bases in Asia is located in Taiwan. Our largest wafer source is located in China. An outbreak of SARS or other health related issues, such as an avian influenza (bird flu) pandemic, could have a negative impact on consumer demand, on travel needed to secure new business or manage our operations, on transportation of our products from our suppliers or to our customers, or on workers needed to sell or manufacture our products or our customers products. Risks Relating to Production Operations We obtain many essential components and materials and certain critical manufacturing services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, most of which are foreign-based entities. Our reliance on a limited number of subcontractors and suppliers for wafers, packaging, testing and certain other processes involves several risks, including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components. These risks are attributable to several factors, including limitations on resources, labor problems, equipment failures or the occurrence of natural disasters. The good working relationships we have established with our suppliers and subcontractors could be disrupted, and our supply chain could suffer, if a supplier or subcontractor were to experience a change in control. There can be no assurance that problems will not occur in the future with suppliers or subcontractors. Disruption or termination of our supply sources or subcontractors could significantly delay our shipments and harm our business. Delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain timely deliveries or quality manufacturing or any other circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture or package certain components internally could limit our growth and harm our business. We are subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, particularly gold, that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to process our end products. Increased commodity prices are passed on to us in the form of higher prices from our suppliers, either in the form of general price increases or commodity surcharges. Although we generally deal with our suppliers on a purchase order basis rather than on a long-term contract basis, we generally attempt to obtain firm pricing for volumes consistent with planned production. Our gross margins may decline if we are not able to increase selling prices of our products or obtain manufacturing efficiencies to offset the increased cost. We do not enter into formal hedging arrangements to mitigate against commodity risk. Most of our outside subcontractors and suppliers, including third-party foundries that supply silicon wafers, are located in foreign countries, including China, Taiwan, Europe and Israel. For fiscal year 2014 , approximately 38% of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers, was supplied by a third-party foundry in China, and this percentage could be even higher in future periods. For fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , approximately 38% and 59% , respectively, of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by this third-party foundry in China. While our utilization of multiple outside foundries does create some redundancy of fabrication processes, any interruption of supply by one or more of these foundries could materially impact us. We maintain some amount of business interruption insurance to help reduce the risk of wafer supply interruption, but we are not fully insured against such risk. A majority of our package and test operations are performed by third-party contractors based in Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, the Philippines and China. Our international business activities, in general, are subject to a variety of potential risks resulting from political and economic uncertainties. Any political turmoil or trade restrictions in these countries, particularly China, could limit our ability to obtain goods and services from these suppliers and subcontractors. The effect of an economic crisis or political turmoil on our suppliers located in these countries may impact our ability to meet the demands of our customers. If we find it necessary to transition the goods and services received from our existing suppliers or subcontractors to 16 other firms, we would likely experience an increase in production costs and a delay in production associated with such a transition, both of which could have a significant negative effect on our operating results, as these risks are substantially uninsured. Our ultra-high speed SerDes products and most of our microwave products are dependent on a single fabrication facility, located within the United States, for wafers. Any extended or continued interruption of supply by this supplier facility could materially impact our ability to ship these products to customers. An extended or protracted failure by us to deliver products to customers in accordance with contractual delivery commitments could result in lost business opportunities and may in certain circumstances trigger contractual penalties or other contractual liabilities to customers, including stipulated delay fees and/or the cost differential of substitute products. Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. Our general warranty policy provides for repair or replacement of defective parts. In some cases, a refund of the purchase price is offered. In certain instances, we have agreed to other warranty terms, including some indemnification provisions, which could prove to be significantly more costly than repair, replacement or refund. We attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions and negotiation of sale and other customer contracts, but there is no assurance that such limitations will be accepted or effective. While we maintain some insurance for such events, a successful warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Research and Development, Engineering, Intellectual Property and New Technologies We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products, which is central to our objective of maintaining and expanding our business. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing support for our own new products and technologies. A failure to achieve design wins, to introduce these new products in a timely manner, or to achieve market acceptance for these products on commercially reasonable terms could harm our business. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: timely and efficient completion of technology, product and process design and development; timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing, assembly, assembly, and test processes; the ability to secure and effectively utilize fabrication capacity in different geometries; product performance; product quality and reliability; and effective marketing, sales and service. 17 Even if we are able to develop products and achieve design wins, the design wins may never generate revenues if end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the marketplace or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Mergers and consolidations among customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue can be uncertain and could be significant. If we fail to develop products with required features or performance standards or experience even a short delay in bringing a new product to market, or if our customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and ensure compatibility or compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by our customers and potential customers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, but we rely primarily on trade secret protections through a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our know-how and processes. We intend to continue protecting our proprietary technology, including through trademark and copyright registrations and patents. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Our failure to adequately protect our material know-how and processes could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Due to the number of competitors, intellectual property infringement is an ongoing risk since other companies in our industry could have intellectual property rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and we may have to defend ourselves against infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our managements resources. If one of our products is found to infringe on a third partys rights, we may have liability for past infringement and may need to seek a license to use such intellectual property going forward. If a license is not available or if we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, we would either have to change our product so that it does not infringe or stop making the product. We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. Sales are made primarily on a current delivery basis, pursuant to purchase orders that may be revised or cancelled by our customers without penalty, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Some contracts require that we maintain inventories of certain products at levels above the anticipated needs of our customers. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without binding purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could harm our business. Risks Relating to International Operations We sell and trade with foreign customers, which subjects our business to increased risks. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 84% of net sales in the fiscal year ended January 26, 2014 . Sales to our customers located in China (including Hong Kong) and South Korea constituted 34% and 11% , respectively, of net sales for fiscal year 2014 . International sales are subject to certain risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors and representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may harm our business. Our use of the Semtech name may be prohibited or restricted 18 in some countries, which may negatively impact our sales efforts. In addition, substantially all of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business could harm us by resulting in pricing that is not competitive with prices denominated in local currencies. Our foreign currency exposures may change over time as the level of activity in foreign markets grows and could have an adverse impact upon financial results. As a global enterprise, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our assets, including certain bank accounts, exist in non-U.S. dollar-denominated currencies, which are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The non-U.S. dollar-denominated currencies are principally the Swiss Franc, Euro, Canadian dollars, Mexican Peso, Japanese Yen and British Pound Sterling. We also have a significant number of employees that are paid in foreign currency, the largest groups being United Kingdom-based employees who are paid in British Pound Sterling, Swiss-based employees who are paid in Swiss Francs, Canada-based employees who are paid in Canadian dollars, and Mexican nationals who are paid in Mexican Pesos. If the value of the U.S. dollar weakens relative to these specific currencies, as it has done in recent years, the cost of doing business in terms of U.S. dollars rises. With the growth of our international business, our foreign currency exposures may grow and under certain circumstances, could harm our business. As a means of managing our foreign exchange exposure, we routinely convert U.S. dollars into foreign currency in advance of the expected payment. We regularly assess whether or not to hedge foreign exchange exposure. Any future use of forward contracts to hedge foreign exchange exposure may be required to be marked-to-market each quarter and can create volatility in net income not directly tied to our operating results. We may be subject to increased tax liabilities and an increased effective tax rate if we need to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries. As of January 26, 2014 , our foreign subsidiaries held approximately $219.3 million of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $496.8 million of unremitted earnings for which no Federal or State taxes have been provided. If we needed these funds for investment in our domestic operations, any repatriation could result in increased tax liabilities. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments. As a global company headquartered in the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products. Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our operations or our sales in the recent past, but could significantly limit them in the future. We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. Although these restrictions and laws have not significantly restricted our operations in the recent past, there is a risk that they could do so in the future. Risks Relating to Sales, Marketing and Competition We compete against larger, more established entities and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We consider our primary competitors with respect to our Protection Products to include STMicroelectronics, NXP Semiconductors N.V., ON Semiconductor Corporation and Infineon Technologies AG. Our primary competitors with respect to our Signal Integrity and Timing products are Texas Instruments Incorporated, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., M/A-COM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc., Inphi Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, ClariPhy Communications, Inc. and our customers own internal solutions. With respect to our Power Management and High Reliability products, we consider our primary competitors to include Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microsemi Corporation and Monolithic Power Systems. Our primary competitors with respect to our Wireless and Sensing products include Silicon Laboratories, Texas Instruments Incorporated, Atmel Corporation, Analog Devices Inc. and Cypress Semiconductor Corp. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of integrated circuit technology depends on several factors, including: success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies; 19 protection of our processes, trade secrets and know-how; maintaining high product quality and reliability; pricing policies of our competitors; performance of competitors products; ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis; marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and financial strength. To the extent that our products achieve market success, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or lower prices; if they are successful, they could harm our business. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and the loss of any one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our business. Our largest customers have varied from year to year. Historically, we have had significant customers that individually accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in certain quarters or represented 10% or more of net accounts receivables at any given date. One of our authorized distributors regularly accounts for more than 10% of net sales on an annual basis. Depending on the authorized distributor and their strategic focus, they can support anywhere from a few end-customers to many end-customers. Concentration of Net Sales - Significant Customers Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2014 2013 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.(and affiliates) 12 % 12 % 13 % Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd (and affiliates) 9 % 10 % 7 % Frontek Technology Corp 5 % 6 % 10 % Concentration of Accounts Receivable - Significant Customers Fiscal Years (percentage of net accounts receivable as of fiscal year end) 2014 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.(and affiliates) 13 % 12 % Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd (and affiliates) 9 % 14 % In addition to those customers representing greater than 10% of net sales or accounts receivable listed above, we had several end-customers in fiscal year 2014 that, on an annual basis, accounted for more than 2% of net sales, but less than 10% of net sales. Sales to our customers are generally made on open account, subject to credit limits we may impose, and the receivables are subject to the risk of being uncollectible. The volatility of customer demand limits our ability to predict future levels of sales and profitability. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. The loss of any significant customer, any material reduction in orders by any of our significant customers, the cancellation of a significant customer order or the cancellation or delay of a customers significant program or product could harm our business. Semiconductor suppliers can rapidly increase production output in response to slight increases in demand, leading to a sudden oversupply situation and a subsequent reduction in order rates and revenues as customers adjust their inventories to account for shorter lead times. Conversely, when circumstances create longer lead times customers may orders in excess of what they need to ensure availability, then cancel orders if lead times are reduced. A rapid and sudden decline in customer demand for products or cancellation of orders can result in excess quantities of certain products relative to demand. Should this occur, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of charges to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to the estimated demand level or market price. Our quarterly revenues are highly dependent upon turns fill orders (orders booked and shipped in the same quarter). The short-term and volatile nature of customer demand makes it extremely difficult to accurately predict near term revenues and profits. 20 Most of our authorized distributors, which together represent approximately half of our net sales, can terminate their contract with us with little or no notice. The termination of a distributor could negatively impact our business, including net sales and accounts receivable. In fiscal year 2014 , authorized distributors accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our distributors and most can terminate their agreement with us with little or no notice. For fiscal year 2014 , our two largest distributors were based in Asia. The termination of any of our distributor relationships could impact our net sales and limit our access to certain end-customers. It could also result in the return of excess inventory of our product held by that distributor. Since many distributors simply resell finished products, they generally operate on very thin profit margins. If a distributor were to terminate an agreement with us or go out of business, our accounts receivable from the particular distributor would be subject to significant collection risk. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulations, including Taxes, Financial Reporting Rules and Regulations, and Environmental Regulations We are subject to government regulations and other standards that impose operational and reporting requirements. We, our suppliers, and our customers are subject to a variety of United States federal, foreign, state and local governmental laws, rules and regulations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals and the incorporation of such substances into products available for sale. If we or our suppliers were to incur substantial additional expenses to acquire equipment or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, product costs could significantly increase, thus harming our business. We are also subject to laws, rules, and regulations related to export licensing and customs requirements, including the International Traffic in Arms Controls, the North American Free Trade Agreement and State Department and Commerce Department rules. Additional laws, rules and regulations at the United States federal and relevant foreign levels governing data privacy protections for personal information, and corrupt practices/anti-bribery prohibitions, impact our business in terms of ongoing monitoring of compliance. Legislation and related regulations in the United Kingdom under that countrys Bribery Act could have extra-territorial application of compliance standards that may be inconsistent with comparable United States law, requiring us to re-evaluate and amend our compliance programs, policies and initiatives. The SEC and NASDAQ have revised, and continue to revise, their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased, and may continue to increase, our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. These developments also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. This, in turn, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, or qualified executive officers. Failure to comply with present or future laws, rules and regulations of any kind that govern our business could result in suspension of all or a portion of production, cessation of all or a portion of operations, or the imposition of significant regulatory, administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or sanctions, any of which could harm our business. Our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, liabilities under various statutes for the cleanup of pollutants at locations we have operated and at third-party disposal and recycling sites we have used. For example, during our fiscal year 2013, we recorded a $2.5 million environmental reserve associated with a cleanup and abatement order from a regulatory authority at our former facility in Newbury Park, California for groundwater contamination. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union and China are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. These regulations affect semiconductor packaging. There is a 21 risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. Future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These metals are commonly used in electronic components and devices, including our products. These regulations will require companies to investigate and disclose whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stockholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. The first report is due on May 31, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year. We could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Switzerland, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Switzerland. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States (IRS) and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Switzerland, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, due to the complexity associated with the calculation of our tax provision, we have hired independent tax advisors to assist us. Significant judgment is required in the calculation of our tax provision and the resulting tax liabilities as well as determination of our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Our estimates of future taxable income and the regional mix of this income can change as new information becomes available. Any such changes in our estimates or assumptions can significantly impact our tax provision in a given period by, for example, requiring us to impair existing deferred tax assets. Such required changes could result in us having to restate our financial statements. Restatements are generally costly and could adversely impact our results of operations or have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. We may be subject to taxation in other jurisdictions which could negatively affect our operations. As a global organization, we may be subject to a variety of transfer pricing or permanent establishment challenges by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. If certain of our non-U.S. activities were treated as carrying on business as a permanent establishment and therefore, subject to income tax in such jurisdiction, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure