Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" and additional factors that accompany the related forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and in material incorporated herein and therein by reference. In light of the significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking information included herein that may cause actual performance and results to differ materially from those predicted, any such forward-looking information should not be regarded as representations or guarantees by the Company of future performance or results, or that its objectives or plans will be achieved, or that any of its operating expectations or financial forecasts will be realized. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information contained herein, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly release the results of any update or revision to any forward-looking statement that may be made to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated or future events, or otherwise. In addition to regarding forward-looking statements with caution, you should consider that the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to draw conclusions and make interpretations, judgments, assumptions and estimates with respect to certain factual, legal, and accounting matters. Our consolidated financial statements might have been materially impacted if we had reached different conclusions or made different interpretations, judgments, assumptions or estimates. 3 PART I Item 1. Business General We are a leading global supplier of high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductors and advanced algorithms and were incorporated in Delaware in 1960. We design, develop, manufacture and market a wide range of products for commercial applications, the majority of which are sold into the enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer and industrial end markets. Enterprise Computing : data centers, passive optical networks, desktops, notebooks, servers, monitors, printers and other computer peripherals. Communications : base stations, optical networks, carrier networks, switches and routers, cable modems, wireless LAN and other communication infrastructure equipment. High-End Consumer : handheld products, smartphones, wireless charging, set-top boxes, digital televisions, monitors and displays, tablets, wearables, digital video recorders and other consumer equipment. Industrial : analog and digital video broadcast equipment, video-over-IP solutions, automated meter reading, Internet of Things ("IoT"), smart grid, wireless charging, military and aerospace, medical, security systems, automotive, industrial and home automation and other industrial equipment. Our end customers are primarily original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and their suppliers. Overview of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is broadly divided into analog and digital semiconductor products. Analog semiconductors condition and regulate "real world" functions such as temperature, speed, sound and electrical current. Digital semiconductors process binary information, such as that used by computers. Mixed-signal devices incorporate both analog and digital functions into a single chip and provide the ability for digital electronics to interface with the outside world. The market for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors differs from the market for digital semiconductors. The analog and mixed-signal industry is typically characterized by longer product life cycles than the digital industry. In addition, analog semiconductor manufacturers tend to have lower capital investment requirements for manufacturing because their facilities tend to be less dependent than digital producers on state-of-the-art production equipment to manufacture leading edge process technologies. The end-product markets for analog and mixed-signal semiconductors are more varied and more specialized than the relatively standardized digital semiconductor product markets. Another difference between the analog and digital markets is the amount of available talented labor. The analog industry relies more heavily than the digital industry on design and applications talent to distinguish its products from one another. Digital expertise is extensively taught in universities due to its overall market size, while analog and mixed-signal expertise tends to be learned over time based on experience and hands-on training. Consequently, personnel with analog training are scarcer than digital trained engineers. This has historically made it more difficult for new suppliers in the analog market to quickly develop products and gain significant market share. Advancements in digital signal processing technology typically drive the need for corresponding advancements in analog and mixed-signal solutions. We believe that the diversity of our applications allows us to take advantage of areas of relative market strength and reduces our vulnerability to competitive pressure in any one area. Business Strategy Our objective is to be a leading supplier of high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductors and advanced algorithms to the fastest growing segments of our target markets. We intend to leverage our pool of skilled technical personnel to develop new products or, where appropriate, use strategic acquisitions or small strategic investments to either accelerate our position in the fastest growing areas or to gain entry into these areas. In order to capitalize on our strengths in analog and mixed-signal processing design, development and marketing, we intend to pursue the following strategies: Leverage our rare analog and mixed-signal design expertise We have developed a strategy to invest heavily in human resources needed to define, design and market high-performance analog and mixed-signal platform products. We have built a team of experienced engineers who combine industry expertise with advanced semiconductor design expertise to meet customer requirements and enable our customers to get their products to market rapidly. We intend to leverage this strategy to achieve new levels of integration, power reduction and performance, enabling our customers to achieve differentiation in their end systems. 4 Continue to release proprietary new products, achieve new design wins and cross-sell products We are focused on developing unique, new, and proprietary products that bring value to our target customers in our target markets. These products are typically differentiated in performance but are priced competitively. We also focus on achieving design wins for our products with current and future customers. Design wins are indications by the customer that they intend to incorporate our products into their product designs. Although we believe that a design win is an indicator of future potential growth, it does not inevitably result in us being awarded business or receiving a purchase commitment. Our technical talent works closely with our customers in securing design wins, defining new products and in implementing and integrating our products into their systems. We also focus on selling our complete portfolio of products to our existing customers, as we believe the technical expertise of our marketing and sales teams allows us to identify and capitalize on cross-selling opportunities. Focus on fast-growing market segments and regions We have chosen to target the analog and mixed-signal sub-segments of some of the most exciting and fastest growing end markets. We participate in these markets by focusing on specific product areas within the analog and mixed-signal market, including products for enterprise computing equipment, communications infrastructure, high-end consumer equipment and certain broad-based industrial markets. All of these markets are characterized by their need for leading-edge, high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductor technologies. The enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer, and industrial end markets we supply are characterized by several trends that we believe drive demand for our products. The key trends that we believe are significant for our future growth include: Increasing bandwidth over high-speed networks, fueling growth in high speed multimedia transmission; Increasing electronic system requirements for smaller, lighter, more highly integrated and feature-rich mobile devices; Increasing need for more efficient energy management in the home and in industrial environments and the proliferation of "green" standards; and Increasing demands for Internet connectivity to low power sensors. Our products address these market trends by providing solutions that are ultra-low power thereby extending battery life, small form factor enabling smaller more mobile devices, highly integrated enabling more functionality within devices, and high-performance enabling product differentiation within our customer base. Additionally, as communications functions are increasingly integrated into a range of systems and devices, these products require analog sensing, processing and control capabilities, which increases the number and size of our targeted end markets. Leverage outsourced semiconductor fabrication capacity We outsource most of our manufacturing in order to focus more of our resources on designing, developing and marketing our products. Our primary outside wafer foundries are bas ed in China, Israel, South Korea and the United States ("U.S."). We believe that outsourcing provides us numerous benefits including, capital efficiency, the flexibility to adopt and leverage emerging process technologies without significant investment risk, and a more variable cost of goods, which provides us with greater operating flexibility. Products and Technology We design, develop, manufacture and market high-performance analog and mixed-signal semiconductors and advanced algorithms. We currently operate and account for results in one reportable segment through three product lines: Signal Integrity, Protection, and Wireless and Sensing. Signal Integrity. We design, develop and market a portfolio of optical data communications and video transport products used in a wide variety of enterprise computing, communications, and industrial applications. Our comprehensive portfolio of integrated circuits ("ICs") for data centers, enterprise networks, passive optical networks ("PON"), and wireless base station optical transceivers and high-speed interfaces ranges from 100Mbps to 400Gbps and supports key industry standards such as Fibre Channel, Infiniband, Ethernet, PON and synchronous optical networks. Our video products offer advanced solutions for next generation high-definition broadcast applications, as well as highly differentiated video-over-IP technology for professional audio video ("Pro AV") applications. Protection. We design, develop and market high-performance protection devices, which are often referred to as transient voltage suppressors ("TVS"). TVS devices provide protection for electronic systems where voltage spikes (called transients), such as electrostatic discharge, electrical over stress or secondary lightning surge energy, can permanently damage sensitive ICs. Our portfolio of protection solutions include filter and termination devices that are integrated with the TVS device. Our products provide robust protection while preserving signal integrity in high-speed communications, networking and video interfaces. These products also operate at very low voltage. Our protection products can be found in a broad range of 5 applications including smart phones, LCD and organic light-emitting diode TVs, set-top boxes, monitors and displays, tablets, computers, notebooks, base stations, routers, automobile and industrial instruments. Wireless and Sensing. We design, develop and market a portfolio of specialized radio frequency products used in a wide variety of industrial, medical and communications applications, and specialized sensing products used in industrial and consumer applications. Our wireless products, which include our LoRa devices and wireless radio frequency technology ("LoRa Technology"), feature industry leading and longest range industrial, scientific and medical radio, enabling a lower total cost of ownership and increased reliability in all environments. This makes these products particularly suitable for machine to machine and IoT applications. Our unique sensing technology enables smart proximity sensing and advanced user interface solutions for our mobile and consumer products. Our wireless and sensing products can be found in a broad range of applications in the industrial, medical, and consumer markets. We also design, develop, and market power product devices that control, alter, regulate, and condition the power within electronic systems focused on the LoRa and IoT infrastructure segment. The highest volume product types within this category are switching voltage regulators, combination switching and linear regulators, smart regulators, isolated switches, and wireless charging. Our sales by product line were as follows: Fiscal Years (in thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Signal Integrity $ 222,846 $ 276,040 $ 263,015 Wireless and Sensing 167,454 190,589 164,569 Protection 157,212 182,068 176,482 Other: Warrant Shares (1) (21,501 ) (16,219 ) Total $ 547,512 $ 627,196 $ 587,847 (1) On October 5, 2016, we issued a warrant (the "Warrant") to Comcast Cable Communications Management LLC ("Comcast") to purchase up to 1,086,957 shares of our common stock. The Warrant was issued in connection with an agreement between the parties regarding the intended trial deployment by Comcast of a low-power wide-area Network ("LPWAN") in the U.S., based on our LoRa Technology. As of January 27, 2019, the Warrant was fully vested and exercisable for a total of 869,565 shares, with no additional costs to be recognized in future periods. The Warrant was fully exercised and no longer outstanding as of March 15, 2019. Recent Acquisitions On December 11, 2018, the Company, through its subsidiary Semtech (International) AG, a Swiss corporation, completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of Trackio International AG, a Swiss corporation, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "TrackNet"), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8.5 million. TrackNet is a provider of LoRa-based end-to-end solutions for the IoT market and provides expertise and intellectual property that will be integrated into the Company's business to support its goal of enabling the growing ecosystem around the Company's LoRa Technology. On May 2, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of IC Interconnect, Inc. (ICI) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $7.4 million. The addition of ICI is intended to enhance the Companys U.S. research and development capabilities for its next-generation Z-Pak platform. On July 1, 2017, the Company acquired AptoVision Technologies Inc. ("AptoVision"), a privately-held provider of uncompressed, zero-frame latency, video-over-IP solutions addressing the Pro AV market. The unique combination of AptoVision's advanced algorithms for real-time, full bandwidth video transmission over IP networks, and Semtech's industry leading high-speed signal integrity and chip development expertise is expected to enable the adoption of Software Defined Video over Ethernet ("SDVoE") and accelerate this natural progression in the evolution of video transport. This transaction expanded the portfolio of our Signal Integrity Products Group. 6 S emtech End Markets Our products are sold primarily to customers in the enterprise computing, industrial, high-end consumer and communications end markets. Our net sales by major end market as a percentage of total net sales are detailed below: Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2020 2019 2018 Enterprise Computing 29 % 32 % 33 % Industrial 33 % 32 % 29 % High-End Consumer 28 % 27 % 29 % Communications 10 % 12 % 12 % Other: Warrant Shares % (3 )% (3 )% Total 100 % 100 % 100 % We believe that our diversity in end markets provides stability to our business and opportunity for growth. The following table depicts our main product lines and their end market and product applications: Typical End Product Applications Product Groups Enterprise Computing Communications High-End Consumer Industrial Signal Integrity Optical module ICs supporting up to 400Gb/s for Ethernet and Fibre Channel protocols in data center and access applications Optical module ICs for 4G/5G/LTE wireless applications, Optical module ICs for Telecom applications and Backplane CDRs and signal conditioners Serial Digital Interconnect interface ICs for Broadcast Video, Video over IP technology for Pro AV applications Protection Servers, workstations, desktop PC/ notebooks, ultrabooks, optical modules, printers, copiers 4G/5G/LTE base stations, 1/10 Gb/s Ethernet Smartphones, tablets, wearables, cameras, TVs, set top boxes Industrial automation, measurement & instrumentation, automotive, IoT Wireless and Sensing Smartphones, media players, tablets, digital/still video cameras, wearables Automated meter readers, industrial automation, IoT, keyless entry, hearing aids Seasonality Seasonality has not historically had a material impact on our business segments or results of operations. Intellectual Capital and Product Development The development of intellectual property ("IP") and the resulting proprietary products is a critical success factor for us. Recruiting and retaining key technical talent is the foundation for designing, developing, and marketing our IP in the form of new proprietary products in the global marketplace. Our ability to recruit and retain our engineering talent is one of the keys to maintaining our competitive advantage. Historically, we have been successful in retaining our key engineering staff and recruiting new talent. One of our strategies to recruit talent is the establishment of multiple design center locations. As a result, we have design centers throughout the world. Circuit design engineers, layout engineers, product and test engineers, application engineers, and field application engineers are our most valuable employees. Together they perform the critical tasks of design and layout of ICs, turning these circuits into silicon devices, and conferring with customers about designing these devices into their applications. The majority of our engineers fit into one of these categories. Most of these engineers have many years of experience in the design, development, and layout of circuits targeted for use in protection, advanced communications and power management, multimedia and data communications, and wireless and sensing applications. We also employ a number of software engineers and systems engineers that specialize in the development of software and systems architecture, who enable us to develop systems oriented products in select markets. 7 We occasionally enter into agreements with customers that allow us to recover certain costs associated with product design and engineering services. Recovery for these services could potentially lag behind the period in which we recognize the related expense, causing a difference in recognition timing that could potentially create volatility in our reported product development and engineering expenses. Sales and Marketing Net sales made directly to custome rs during fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , were approximately 28% , 32% and 34% of total net sales, respectively. The remaining 72% , 68% and 66% of net sales were made through independent distributors. The decline in direct sales is primarily related to growth in our industrial end-market sales, which includes our LoRa Technology products, as these products are predominantly sold through our distributors. We have direct sales personnel located throughout the U.S., Europe, and Asia who manage the sales activities of independent sales representative firms and independent distributors. We expense our advertising costs as they are incurred. We operate internationally through our foreign subsidiaries. Semtech (International) AG serves the European and Asian markets from its headquarters in Rapperswil, Switzerland, and through its wholly-owned subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and Japan. Semtech (International) AG also maintains branch offices, either directly or through one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, in multiple countries including China, Taiwan and South Korea. Semtech Canada Corporation serves the Canadian market for most of the products from our Signal Integrity Products Group from its headquarters in Burlington, Ontario. Independent representatives and distributors are also used to serve customers throughout the world. Some of our distributors and sales representatives also offer products from our competitors, as is customary in the industry. Customers, Sales Data and Backlog As a result of the breadth of our products and markets, we have a broad and balanced range of customers. Representative Customers by End Markets: Enterprise Computing Industrial High-End Consumer Communications Alphabet Inc. Honeywell Inc. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Cisco Systems, Inc. Hewlett-Packard Itron, Inc. LG Electronics Inc. Ericsson Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Panasonic Corp Quanta Computer Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. LuxNet Corp Raytheon Company Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Lumentum Holdings Inc. Rockwell Automation Sharp Corporation ZTE Corporation Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sharp Corporation Sumitomo Electric Sonova International ZTE Corporation Sony Corp Our customers include major OEMs and their subcontractors in the enterprise computing, communications, high-end consumer and industrial end markets. Our products are typically purchased by these customers for their performance, price and/or technical support, as compared to our competitors. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , sales in the U.S. represented 9% , 11% and 9% of our sales, r espectively, while foreign sales represented 91% , 89% and 91% of our sales, respectively . Sales to customers located in China (including Hong Kong), South Korea and Japan comprised 53% , 8% and 5% of our sales, respectively, in fiscal year 2020 . We are monitoring the impact of the coronavirus outbreak on our customers and cannot currently determine the extent of the impact it may have on our customers. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Relating to General Business Conditions - Current global economic conditions and the potential changes in global economic policy could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. No other foreign country comprised more than 5% of our sales in fiscal year 2020 . 8 Concentration of Net Sales - Significant Customers The following table sets forth the concentration of sales among the customers that accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in at least one of the fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 : Fiscal Years (percentage of net sales) 2020 2019 2018 Trend-tek Technology Ltd (and affiliates) 13 % 14 % 10 % Frontek Technology Corporation (and affiliates) 11 % 11 % 7 % Arrow Electronics (and affiliates) 9 % 10 % 11 % Samsung Electronics (and affiliates) 4 % 8 % 8 % Premier Technical Sales Korea, Inc. (and affiliates) (1) 7 % 4 % 6 % (1) Premier is a distributor with a concentration of sales to Samsung. The above percentages represent our estimate of the sales activity related to Samsung that is passing through this distributor. Concentration of Accounts Receivable - Significant Customers The following table shows customers that had an outstanding receivable balance that represented at least 10% of total net receivables as of one or more of the dates indicated: (percentage of net receivables) January 26, 2020 January 27, 2019 Trend-tek Technology Ltd. (and affiliates) 13 % 11 % Frontek Technology Corporation (and affiliates) 11 % 10 % CEAC International Limited 11 % 7 % Backlog Our backlog of orders as of the end of fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 was approximately $93.0 million , $72.6 million and $102.9 million , respectivel y. The majority of our backlog is typically requested for delivery within six months. In markets where the end system life cycles are relatively short, customers typically request delivery in four to eight weeks. A backlog analysis at any given time gives little indication of our future business except on a short-term basis, principally within the next 45 days. We do not have any significant backlog with deliveries beyond 18 months. Manufacturing Capabilities Our strategy is to outsource most of our manufacturing functions to third-party foundries and assembly and test contractors. The third-party foundries fabricate silicon wafers, while the assembly and test contractors package and test our products. We believe this outsourcing permits us to take advantage of the best available technology, leverage the capital investment of others and reduce our operating costs associated with manufacturing assets. We perform a limited amount of internal probe and final test activities at our facilities in Camarillo, Irvine and San Diego in California; Neuchtel in Switzerland; and Reynosa in Mexico. These activities accommodate situations in which tight coupling with product design is desirable or where there are unique requirements. A majority of our very small form factor protection devices are packaged at our facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Our packaged discrete rectifier products are packaged and tested in-house in Reynosa, Mexico. Almost all of our other products are packaged and tested by outside subcontractors. In keeping with our mostly "fabless" business model, we have no wafer fabrication facilities except for our operation in Reynosa, Mexico. For fiscal year 2020 , the Reynosa facility provided almost all of the silicon for our packaged discrete rectifier products, which were approxim ately 3% of our end product net sales. The remaining end products representing 97% of our net sales were supported with finished silicon wafers purchased from third-party wafer foundries in China, Israel, South Korea and the United States ("U.S."). We anticipate that substantially all of the silicon wafers we require will come from third-party foundries in fiscal year 2021 . Despite our use of third-party wafer foundries for sourcing a majority of our silicon needs, we do maintain internal process development capabilities. Our process engineers work closely with our third-party foundries on the improvement and development of process capabilities. In fiscal year 2020 , we purchased the majority of our wafers from approximately five different third-party wafer foundries and used various manufacturing processes, including Bipolar, CMOS, RF-CMOS and Silicon Germanium ("SiGe") BiCMOS processes. While we do have some redundancy of fabrication processes by using multiple third-party foundries, any interruption of supply by one or more of these foundries could materially impact us. As a result, we maintain some amount of business interruption 9 insurance in part to help reduce the financial risk associated with a wafer supply interruption, but we are not fully insured against this risk. Although our products are made from basic materials (principally silicon, metals and plastics), all of which are available from a number of suppliers, capacity at wafer foundries sometimes becomes constrained. The limited availability of certain materials, such as silicon wafer substrates, may impact our suppliers ability to meet our demand needs or impact the price we are charged. The prices of certain other basic materials, such as metals, gases and chemicals used in the production of ICs can exhibit price volatility depending on the changes in demand for these basic commodities. In most cases, we do not procure these materials ourselves, but we are nevertheless reliant on these materials for producing our products because our third-party foundry and package and test subcontractors must procure them. To help minimize risks associated with constrained capacity, we use multiple foundries and have taken other steps to prevent supply interruptions at certain foundries and subcontractors. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , 24% , 16% and 20% , respectively, of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by a third-party foundry in China, and 11% , 11% and 14% , respectively, of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by a third-party foundry in Israel. In addition to our development and production facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado, which provides assembly services for a majority of our very small form factor protection devices, we use third-party subcontractors to perform almost all of our other assembly and test operations. A majority of our offshore assembly and test activity is conducted by third-party subcontractors based in China, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, South Korea and the Philippines . We have operations offices located in the Philippines, Malaysia and China that support and coordinate some of the worldwide shipment of products. We have installed our own test equipment at some of our packaging and testing subcontractors in order to ensure a certain level of capacity, assuming the subcontractor has ample employees to operate the equipment. We are monitoring the impact of the coronavirus outbreak on our suppliers and third-party subcontractors and cannot currently determine the extent of the impact it may have on our operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Production Operations - We obtain many essential components and materials and certain critical manufacturing services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, most of which are foreign-based. Our arrangements with both third-party wafer foundries and package and test subcontractors are designed to provide some assurance of capacity but are not expected to assure access to all the manufacturing capacity we may need in the future. Competition The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor and advanced algorithms industries are highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit and retain key engineering talent, our ability to execute on new product developments, and our ability to persuade customers to design these new products into their applications. Our industry is characterized by decreasing average unit selling prices over the life of a product as the volumes typically increase. However, price decreases can sometimes be quite rapid and faster than the rate of increase of the associated product volumes. We believe we compete effectively based upon our ability to capitalize on efficiencies and economies of scale in production and sales, and our ability to maintain or improve our productivity and product yields to reduce manufacturing costs. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with numerous manufacturers of varying size, technical capability and financial strength. A number of these competitors are dependent on semiconductor products as their principal source of income, and some are much larger and better resourced than we are. The number of competitors has grown due to expansion of the market segments in which we participate. Additionally, there has been a trend toward consolidation in our industry as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. Such consolidations may make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, channel coverage, technology or product functionality. Intellectual Property and Licenses We have been granted 201 U.S. patents and 187 foreign patents and have numerous patent applications pending with respect to our products and to technologies associated with our business. The expiration dates of issued patents range from 2020 to 2038 . Although we consider patents to be helpful in maintaining a competitive advantage, we do not believe they create definitive competitive barriers to entry. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. We have no material revenue associated with patents that expire in calendar years 2020, 2021 or 2022. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Registration generally provides rights in addition to basic trademark protections and is typically renewable upon proof of continued use. We have registered, or are in the process of registering, our SEMTECH trademark in many jurisdictions. In one location use of this trademark is prohibited, but we are permitted to use our Semtech International trade name. This restriction has not had a material impact on our business to date and we do not anticipate it will have a material impact in the future. 10 We also have registered certain materials in which we have copyright ownership, which provides additional protection for this intellectual property. Employees As of January 26, 2020 , we had 1,388 full-time employees. There were 534 employees in research and development, 271 employees in sales, marketing and field services, and 190 employees in general, administrative and finance. The remaining employees support operational activities, including product and test engineering, assembly, manufacturing, distribution and quality functions. We have not had a work stoppage in the last decade and the only unionized employees are approximately 188 Mexican nationals who work at our manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Our employee relations during the last fiscal year have been, and remain, satisfactory. We adjust our workforce from time to time to meet the changing needs of our business. Competition for key design engineering talent globally is significant. Government Regulations and Environmental Matters We are required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with numerous government regulations that are normal and customary to businesses in our industry and that operate in our markets and operating locations. Our sales that serve the military and aerospace markets primarily consist of high-reliability products that are offered within our Wireless and Sensing product line that have been qualified to be sold in these markets by the U.S. Department of Defense ("DOD"). In order to maintain these qualifications, we must comply with certain specifications promulgated by the DOD. As part of maintaining these qualifications, we are routinely audited by the DOD. Based on current specifications, we believe we can maintain our qualifications for the foreseeable future. However, these specifications could be modified by the DOD in the future or we could become subject to other government requirements, which could make the manufacturing of these products more difficult and thus could adversely impact our profitability in the Wireless and Sensing Product Group. In fiscal year 2020 , our sales that serve military and aerospace markets comprised 2% of our sales. A small number of special assemblies from the Wireless and Sensing product line are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"). We have a Technical Assistance Agreement in place that permits us to assemble certain of these products in Mexico. International shipments of products subject to ITAR require a State Department license. For further discussion related to environmental matters, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information General information about us can be found on our website at www.semtech.com . The information on our website is for informational purposes only and should not be relied on for investment purposes. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. We make available free of charge, either by direct access on our website or a link to the SEC website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available directly at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risk factors listed below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed. If our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. See also Special Note Regarding Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to General Business Conditions Our future results may fluctuate, fail to match past performance or fail to meet expectations. Our results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to match our past performance or fail to meet our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. Our results and related ratios, such as gross margin, operating income percentage and effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of: general economic conditions in the countries where we sell our products; the availability of adequate supply commitments from our outside suppliers; the timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; seasonality and variability in the computer market and our other end markets; product obsolescence; the scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers; the cyclical nature of demand for our customers products; our ability to predict and meet evolving industry standards and consumer preferences; our ability to develop new process technologies and achieve volume production; changes in manufacturing yields; capacity utilization; product mix and pricing; movements in exchange rates, interest rates or tax rates; our ability to integrate and realize synergies from recent acquisitions; the manufacturing and delivery capabilities of our subcontractors; and litigation and regulatory matters. As a result of these factors, our past financial results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Current global economic conditions, including the impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak, and the potential changes in global economic policy could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty about global economic conditions can pose a risk to the overall economy by causing fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending. Demand for our products could be different from our expectations due to many factors including changes in business and economic conditions, conditions in the credit market that affect consumer confidence, customer acceptance of our products, changes in customer order patterns, including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory held by vendors. In fiscal year 2020 , sales to customers in China comprised 53% of our sales. The recent economic slowdown in China could adversely affect our sales to customers in China and consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, there are risks that the Chinese government may, among other things, require the use of local suppliers, compel companies that do business in China to partner with local companies to conduct business, or provide incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local suppliers rather than companies like ours, all of which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, changes in U.S. and global social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment could adversely affect our business. In addition, recent global economic conditions have been affected by the recent outbreak of the novel coronavirus first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. Any outbreak of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments, could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. These could include disruptions or restrictions on our ability to travel or to distribute our products, as well as temporary closures of the facilities and businesses of our customers and their contract manufacturers. Any disruption of the businesses of our customers and suppliers and their contract manufacturers would likely impact our sales and operating results. In addition, a significant outbreak of contagious diseases in the h 12 uman population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our end customers products and likely impact our operating results. Downturns in the business cycle could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, which are characterized by reduced product demand, production overcapacity, increased levels of inventory, industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors and the significant erosion of average selling prices. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. The growth rate of the global economy is one of the factors affecting demand for semiconductor components. Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth including increased price inflation for goods, services or materials, rising interest rates in the U.S. and the rest of the world, or tight credit markets. In addition, economic slowdowns may also affect our customers ability to pay for our products. Accordingly, economic slowdowns may harm our business. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross margins. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a particular product has historically declined significantly over the life of the product. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for older generations of products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins for a particular product. If not offset by sales of other products with higher gross margins, our overall gross margins may be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs and developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis, with higher selling prices or gross margins. Changes in government trade policies could have an adverse impact on our business or the business of our customers, which may materially adversely affect our business operations, sales or gross margins. The U.S. government has recently made statements and taken certain actions that have led to, and may lead to, further changes to U.S. and international trade policies, including recently imposed tariffs affecting certain products exported by a number of U.S. trading partners, including China. For example, in 2018 and 2019, the U.S. imposed tariffs ranging from 7.5% to 25% on four product lists totaling approximately $550 billion in Chinese imports. In response, many U.S. trading partners, including China, have imposed or proposed new or higher tariffs on U.S. products. The tariffs imposed by the U.S. on products imported from China include parts and materials used in semiconductor manufacturing and could have the effect of increasing the cost of materials we use to manufacture certain products, which could result in lower margins. In addition, the geopolitical headwinds driven by export restrictions and tariffs imposed by the U.S. government may weaken demand for our products. For example, during fiscal year 2020 , we experienced a 13% decrease in our net sales compared to the same period last year primarily due to a decline in China-based demand for our products. We cannot predict what further actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, what products may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by the other countries in retaliation. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict exactly how, and to what extent, such actions may impact our business, or the business of our customers, partners or vendors. Any unfavorable government policies on international trade, such as capital controls or tariffs, may further affect the demand for our products, increase the cost of components, delay production, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Any resulting trade wars could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and global economic conditions and could adversely impact our revenues, gross margins and business operations. Moreover, U.S. government actions targeting exports of certain technologies to China are becoming more pervasive. For example, in 2018, the U.S. adopted new laws designed to address concerns about the export of emerging and foundational technologies to China. In addition, on May 15, 2019, President Trump issued an executive order that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks. The order would restrict the acquisition or use in the U.S. of information and communications technology or services designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of foreign adversaries. These actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to China-based customers, thereby further impacting our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Business interruptions such as natural disasters could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our corporate headquarters, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and our business could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake. We generally do not maintain flood coverage, including for our Asian locations where certain of our operations support and sales offices are located. Such flood coverage has become very expensive; as a result we have elected not to purchase this coverage. If one of these locations were to experience a major flood, our business may be harmed. Our business could be harmed if natural disasters interfere with production of wafers by our suppliers, with assembly and testing of products by our subcontractors, or with our distribution network. We maintain some business interruption insurance to help reduce the effect of such business interruptions, but we are not fully insured against such risks. Likewise, our business could be adversely impacted if a natural disaster were to shut down or significantly curtail production by one or more of our end customers. Any such loss of revenue due to a slowdown or cessation of end customer demand is uninsured. When natural disasters such as an earthquake or other causes result in wide-spread destruction, the impact on our business may not be readily apparent. This is especially true when trying to assess the impact of the disaster on our end customers, who themselves may not fully understand the impact of the event on their businesses. The full extent and scope of natural disaster impacts, both in terms of direct impact on us and our supply chain, as well as on our end customers (to include their own supply chain issues as well as end-market issues), may not be known for a considerable period of time following the disaster. When any such natural disaster occurs, there can be no assurance that our operating results may not be materially affected as a result of the impact of the disaster on us or on our end customers. We may experience other causes of business interruptions, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the novel coronavirus, that may affect our operations and we may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. We rely on third-party freight firms for nearly all of our shipments from vendors to assembly and test sites, primarily in Asia, and for shipments of our final product to customers. This includes ground and air transportation. Any significant disruption of such freight business globally or in certain parts of the world, particularly where our operations are concentrated, could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Business interruption insurance may not provide enough protection to compensate us for losses that may occur. Accordingly, any of these disruptions could significantly harm our business. Terrorist attacks, wars and other acts of violence, or any other national or international crisis, calamity or emergency, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease, such as the novel coronavirus, may result in interruption to the business activities of many entities, business losses and overall disruption of the economy at many levels. These events may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our customers and suppliers. Additionally, these events or armed conflicts may cause some of our customers or potential customers to reduce the level of expenditures on their services and products that ultimately may reduce our revenue. The consequences of these reductions are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. For example, as a result of these events, insurance premiums for businesses may increase and the scope of coverage may be decreased. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our business and properties. To the extent that these disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, a general decrease in corporate spending, or our inability to effectively market our services and products, our business and operating results could be harmed. We operate a manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. Historically, certain regions in Mexico have experienced high levels of violence. Any significant disruption of our operations at this facility could materially affect our ability to generate revenues for certain products within our Wireless and Sensing products line. Some of the products that we produce at this facility require certification by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). Failure to secure or maintain the required certification, either directly through the DCAA or through a qualifying third party would materially affect our authorization to manufacture applicable products at this facility, and our revenue for certain products within our Wireless and Sensing products line could materially decline. Risks Relating to Production Operations We obtain many essential components and materials and certain critical manufacturing services from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, most of which are foreign-based entities. Our reliance on a limited number of subcontractors and suppliers for wafers, packaging, testing and certain other processes involves several risks, including potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over the price, timely delivery, reliability and quality of components. These risks are attributable to several factors, including limitations on resources, labor problems, equipment failures or the occurrence of natural disasters. The good working 14 relationships we have established with our suppliers and subcontractors could be disrupted, and our supply chain could suffer, if a supplier or subcontractor were to experience a change in control. There can be no assurance that problems will not occur in the future with suppliers or subcontractors. Disruption or termination of our supply sources or subcontractors could significantly delay our shipments and harm our business. Delays could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain timely deliveries or quality manufacturing or any other circumstances that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or to manufacture or package certain components internally could limit our growth and harm our business. We are subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, particularly gold, that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to process our end products. Increased commodity prices are passed on to us in the form of higher prices from our suppliers, either in the form of general price increases or commodity surcharges. Although we generally deal with our suppliers on a purchase order basis rather than on a long-term contract basis, we generally attempt to obtain firm pricing for volumes consistent with planned production. Our gross margins may decline if we are not able to increase selling prices of our products or obtain manufacturing efficiencies to offset the increased cost. We do not enter into formal hedging arrangements to mitigate against commodity risk. Most of our third-party subcontractors and suppliers, including foundries that supply silicon wafers, are located in foreign countries, including China, Israel and South Korea. In fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , 24% , 16% and 20% , respectively, of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by a third-party foundry in China, and 11% , 11% and 14% , respectively, of our silicon in terms of cost of wafers was supplied by a third-party foundry in Israel. These percentages could be higher in future periods. While our utilization of multiple third-party foundries does create some redundancy of fabrication processes, any interruption of supply by one or more of these foundries could materially impact us. We maintain some amount of business interruption insurance to help reduce the risk of wafer supply interruption, but we are not fully insured against such risk. In addition, the U.S. government has recently announced import tariffs on goods manufactured in China. See the risk factor captioned "Changes in government trade policies could have an adverse impact on our business or the business of our customers, which may materially adversely affect our business operations, sales or gross margins" above. These tariffs, depending upon their ultimate scope, duration and how they are implemented, could negatively impact our business by continuing to increase our costs and by making our products less competitive. We may not be able to pass such increased costs to our customers. In addition, any relocation of manufacturing facilities or to using suppliers outside of China may increase our costs and could impact the global competitiveness of our products. A majority of our package and test operations are performed by third-party contractors based in China, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand, South Korea and the Philippines . Our international business activities, in general, are subject to a variety of potential risks resulting from political and economic uncertainties. Any political turmoil or trade restrictions in these countries, particularly China, could limit our ability to obtain goods and services from these suppliers and subcontractors. The effect of an economic crisis or political turmoil on our suppliers located in these countries may impact our ability to meet the demands of our customers. For example, the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in extended shutdown of certain businesses in the region. This public health crisis or any further political developments or health concerns in markets in which our third-party contractors and suppliers are based could result in social, economic and labor instability, adversely affecting the supply of our products and, in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we find it necessary to transition the goods and services received from our existing suppliers or subcontractors to other firms, we would likely experience an increase in production costs and a delay in production associated with such a transition, both of which could have a significant negative effect on our operating results, as these risks are substantially uninsured. Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. Manufacturing semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities in our manufacturing materials, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, manufacturing equipment failures, and other defects can cause our products to be non-compliant with customer requirements or otherwise nonfunctional. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). Since a defect or failure in our product could give rise to failures in the goods that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers), we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved. Our general warranty policy provides for repair or replacement of defective parts. In some cases, a refund of the purchase price is offered. In certain instances, we have agreed to other warranty terms, including some indemnification provisions, which could prove to be significantly more costly than repair, replacement or refund. We attempt to limit our liability through our standard terms and conditions and negotiation of sale and other customer contracts, but there is no assurance that such limitations will be accepted or effective. While we maintain some insurance for such events, a successful warranty or product 15 liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage, if any, and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a product recall, would have adverse effects (that could be material) on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, in the event that our products fail to perform as expected, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Obsolete inventories as a result of changes in demand for our products and change in life cycles of our products could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end-products into which our products are designed. End-market products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. We may in the future be adversely affected by obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end-products into which our products are designed. In addition, some customers restrict how far back the date of manufacture for our products can be and certain customers may stop ordering products from us and go out of business due to adverse economic conditions; therefore, some of our product inventory may become obsolete and, thus, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating to Research and Development, Engineering, Intellectual Property and New Technologies We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products, which is central to our objective of maintaining and expanding our business. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing support for our own new products and technologies. A failure to achieve design wins, to introduce these new products in a timely manner, or to achieve market acceptance for these products on commercially reasonable terms could harm our business. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: timely and efficient completion of technology, product and process design and development; timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing, assembly, and test processes; the ability to secure and effectively utilize fabrication capacity in different geometries; product performance; product quality and reliability; and effective marketing, sales and service The efforts to achieve design wins typically are lengthy and can require us to both incur design and development costs and dedicate scarce engineering resources in pursuit of a single customer opportunity. We may not prevail in the competitive selection process, and even if we are able to develop products and achieve design wins, the design wins may never generate revenues if end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the marketplace or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Mergers and consolidations among customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue can be uncertain and could be significant. If we fail to develop products with required features or performance standards or experience even a short delay in bringing a new product to market, or if our customers fail to achieve market acceptance of their products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our customers require our products to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process without any assurance of product sales. Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that our products undergo an extensive qualification process, which involves testing of the products in the customer's system as well as rigorous reliability testing. This qualification process may continue for six months or longer. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not ensure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the product or software, changes in the manufacturing process or the selection of a new supplier by us may require a new qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take 16 an additional six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, toward qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, such failure or delay would preclude or delay sales of such product to the customer, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer. Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly . Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and ensure compatibility or compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by our customers and potential customers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial conditions. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, but we rely primarily on trade secret protections through a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our know-how and processes. We intend to continue protecting our proprietary technology, including through trademark and copyright registrations and patents. Despite this intention, we may not be successful in achieving adequate protection. Our failure to adequately protect our material know-how and processes could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the U.S. We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Due to the number of competitors, intellectual property infringement is an ongoing risk since other companies in our industry could have intellectual property rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and we may have to defend ourselves against infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our managements resources. If one of our products is found to infringe on a third partys rights, we may have liability for past infringement and may need to seek a license to use such intellectual property going forward. If a license is not available or if we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, we would either have to change our product so that it does not infringe or stop making the product. We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. Sales are made primarily on a current delivery basis, pursuant to purchase orders that may be revised or cancelled by our customers without penalty, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Some contracts require that we maintain inventories of certain products at levels above the anticipated needs of our customers. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without binding purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could harm our business. While we intend to continue to invest in research and development, we may be unable to make the substantial investments that are required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to bring to market new and enhanced solutions. Our research and development expense was $107.4 million , $109.0 million and $105.1 million , which represent 20% , 17% and 18% of net sales, respectively, in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We expect to strategically increase our research and development expenditures as compared to prior periods. We are unable to predict whether we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive. The added costs could prevent us from being able to maintain a technology advantage over larger competitors that have significantly more resources to invest in research and development. In addition, we cannot assure you that the technologies which are the focus of our research and development expenditures will become commercially successful or generate any revenue. 17 Certain software we use is from open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We use open source software in connection with certain of our products and services, and we intend to continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products or services or alleging that these companies have violated the terms of an open source license. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or alleging that we have violated the terms of an open source license. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solutions. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software solutions with open source software in certain manners, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to publicly release the source code of our proprietary software solutions. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our solutions, discontinue the sale of our solutions, release the source code of our proprietary software to the public at no cost or take other remedial actions. There is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to transition to smaller geometry process technologies and achieve higher levels of design integration to remain competitive and may experience delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, to design new products to more stringent standards and to redesign some existing products. In some instances, we depend on our relationship with our third-party foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. Our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis or at all. Risks Relating to International Operations We sell and trade with foreign customers, which subjects our business to increased risks. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 91% of net sales in the fiscal year ended January 26, 2020 . Sales to our customers located in China (including Hong Kong), South Korea and Japan constituted 53% , 8% and 5% , respectively, of net sales for fiscal year 2020 . International sales are subject to certain risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors and representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. Other risks include local business and cultural factors that may differ from our domestic standards and practices, including business practices from which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, laws of certain foreign countries that may not protect our products, assets or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws, and difficulties enforcing contracts in such foreign countries generally. These factors may harm our business. Our use of the Semtech name may be prohibited or restricted in some countries, which may negatively impact our sales efforts. In addition, substantially all of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars and currency exchange fluctuations in countries where we do business could harm us by resulting in pricing that is not competitive with prices denominated in local currencies. Our foreign currency exposures may change over time as the level of activity in foreign markets grows and could have an adverse impact upon financial results. As a global enterprise, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our assets, including certain bank accounts, exist in non-U.S. Dollar-denominated currencies, which are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The non-U.S. Dollar-denominated currencies are principally the Swiss Franc, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Japanese Yen and Great British Pound. We also have a significant number of employees that are paid in foreign currency, the largest groups being United Kingdom-based employees who are paid in Great British Pound, Switzerland-based employees who are paid in Swiss Francs, Canada-based employees who are paid in Canadian Dollars, China-based employees who are paid in Chinese Renminbi and Mexican nationals who are paid in Mexican Pesos. If the value of the U.S. Dollar weakens relative to these specific currencies, as it has done in recent years, the cost of doing business in terms of U.S. Dollars rises. Whereas if the value of the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to these specific currencies, it could make the pricing of our products less competitive and affect demand for our products. With the growth of our international business, our foreign currency exposures may grow and under certain circumstances, could harm our business. 18 As a means of managing our foreign exchange exposure, we routinely convert U.S. Dollars into foreign currency in advance of the expected payment. We regularly assess whether or not to hedge foreign exchange exposure. Any future use of forward contracts to hedge foreign exchange exposure may be required to be marked-to-market each quarter and can create volatility in net income not directly tied to our operating results. We may be subject to increased tax liabilities and an increased effective tax rate if we need to remit funds held by our foreign subsidiaries. As of January 26, 2020 , our foreign subsidiaries held $787.9 million of unremitted foreign earnings. With the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), all post-1986 previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued were subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we have determined that $547.9 million of foreign earnings (Reinvested Funds) will continue to be reinvested indefinitely outside of the U.S. As a result, we have not recorded a provisional income tax expense for these amounts because we believe that we currently have the ability to keep those earnings indefinitely invested and we have specific plans for reinvestment of these undistributed foreign earnings. In connection with the enactment of the Tax Act, we have determined that we will remit approximately $240.0 million of foreign earnings in the foreseeable future, of which $76.1 million and $80.0 million was remitted during fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a result, we have established a deferred income tax liability for the withholding tax that will be due upon distribution of these earnings. If we needed to remit all or a portion of our Reinvested Funds to the U.S. for investment in our domestic operations, any such remittance could result in increased tax liabilities and a higher effective tax rate. For more information, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments, which may limit our ability to sell to certain customers. As a global company headquartered in the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including, in certain cases, dealings with or between our U.S. employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license or other authorization before entering into a transaction or transferring a controlled item. We maintain an economics sanction and export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities. We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments. These restrictions and laws have significantly restricted our operations in the recent past and may continue to do so in the future. For example, on March 8, 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce published a final rule in the Federal Register that amended the Export Administration Regulations by adding ZTE Corporation ("ZTE") and three of its affiliates to the Entity List for actions contrary to the national security and foreign policy interests of the U.S. This rule imposed new export licensing requirements on exports, re-exports, and in-country transfers of all U.S.-regulated products, software and technology to the designated ZTE entities, which prevented sales of our U.S. regulated products to ZTE since license requests were subject to a general policy of denial. On March 24, 2016, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a temporary general license authorizing most exports to ZTE and one of its designated affiliates through June 30, 2016, thereby enabling us to resume sales to ZTE. The temporary license was repeatedly extended until the Bureau of Industry and Security removed ZTE from the Entity List on March 29, 2017, after ZTE entered a guilty plea and agreed to pay a combined penalty of up to $1.19 billion to settle civil and criminal allegations against it. However, part of this plea deal included the imposition of a Denial Order against ZTE and one of its affiliates, which was initially suspended, but later imposed on April 15, 2018, leading to restrictions on export, re-export or transfer of any items subject to U.S. regulations to ZTE and the listed affiliate. This again impacted our ability to sell certain items to ZTE until the Denial Order was terminated on July 13, 2018. ZTE is still subject to the terms of its settlement agreement that includes the potential for re-imposition of the Denial Order. In addition, on May 16, 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce amended the Export Administration Regulations by adding Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. ("Huawei"), which was recently indicted by the U.S. government for violating U.S. sanctions and bank and wire fraud, among other charges, and 68 of its affiliates to the "Entity List" for actions contrary to the national security and foreign policy interests of the United States. On August 19, 2019, another 46 of Huaweis non-U.S. affiliates were added to the Entity List. As with ZTE, this rule imposes new export licensing requirements on exports, re-exports, and in-country transfers of all U.S.- regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities. As noted above, license requests are subject to a general policy of denial and, therefore, we will not be able to sell most of our U.S. regulated products to Huawei. Sales of our products to Huawei accounted for less than 10% of our net sales during fiscal year 2020 . Although the U.S. Department of Commerce granted certain temporary exemptions to Huawei on May 20, 2019 in the form of a temporary 90 day general license for specific activities, which was further extended for another 90 days on August 19, 2019 and again on November 18, 2019, and for another 45 days on February 13, 2020 and again on March 10, 2020, these exemptions are limited in scope and generally do not apply to the sale of our U.S. regulated products to Huawei. As of the date 19 of this report, we are unable to predict the duration of the export restrictions imposed on Huawei and the corresponding future effects on our business. These actions by the U.S. Department of Commerce or future regulatory activity may materially interfere with our ability to make sales to ZTE, Huawei or other foreign customers. ZTE, Huawei and other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government export control measures or sanctions or threats of export control measures or sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors solutions. In addition, our association with customers that are or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public. Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. Risks Relating to Sales, Marketing and Competition We compete against larger, more established entities and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change, and design and other technological obsolescence. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants in the semiconductor market. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving area of integrated circuit technology depends on several factors, including: success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies; protection of our processes, trade secrets and know-how; maintaining high product quality and reliability; pricing policies of our competitors; performance of competitors products; ability to deliver in large volume on a timely basis; marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and financial strength. To the extent that our products achieve market success, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or lower prices; if they are successful, they could harm our business. We also expect that the trend among large OEMs to seek to develop their own semiconductor solutions will continue and expand and as we move into new markets, we will face competition from larger competitors with longer histories in these markets. Certain of our customers and suppliers also have divisions that produce products competitive with ours and other customers may seek to vertically integrate competitive solutions in the future. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our industry as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually had offered. Such consolidations or strategic partnerships may continue in the future. The companies or alliances resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling bundled products as well as being able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, channel coverage, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers' perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized semiconductor companies such as ourselves and, consequently, customers' willingness to purchase from us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors, with more efficient cost structures that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for our end-customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and the loss of any one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our business. Our largest customers have varied from year to year. Historically, we have had significant customers that individually accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in certain quarters or years or represented 10% or more of net accounts 20 receivables at any given date. Sales to our customers are generally made on open account, subject to credit limits we may impose, and the receivables are subject to the risk of being uncollectible. We believe that our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers and end customers. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to some of our top customers for a variety of reasons, including that our agreements with our customers do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; some of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; and many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers decisions to purchase our products. The loss of a major customer, a reduction in sales to any major customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The volatility of customer demand limits our ability to predict future levels of sales and profitability. We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. The loss of any significant customer, any material reduction in orders by any of our significant customers, the cancellation of a significant customer order or the cancellation or delay of a customers significant program or product could harm our business. Semiconductor suppliers can rapidly increase production output in response to slight increases in demand, leading to a sudden oversupply situation and a subsequent reduction in order rates and revenues as customers adjust their inventories to account for shorter lead times. Conversely, when circumstances create longer lead times customers may order in excess of what they need to ensure availability, then cancel orders if lead times are reduced. A rapid and sudden decline in customer demand for products or cancellation of orders can result in excess quantities of certain products relative to demand. Should this occur, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of charges to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to the estimated demand level or market price. Our quarterly revenues are highly dependent upon turns fill orders (orders booked and shipped in the same quarter). The short-term and volatile nature of customer demand makes it extremely difficult to accurately predict near term revenues and profits. Most of our authorized distributors, which collectively represent more than half of our net sales, can terminate their contract with us with little or no notice. The termination of a distributor could negatively impact our business, including net sales and accounts receivable. In fiscal year 2020 , authorized distributors accounted for approximately 72% of our net sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our distributors and most can terminate their agreement with us with little or no notice. For fiscal year 2020 , our largest distributors were based in Asia. The termination of any of our distributor relationships could impact our net sales and limit our access to certain end-customers. It could also result in the return of excess inventory of our product held by that distributor. Since many distributors simply resell finished products, they generally operate on very thin profit margins. If a distributor were to terminate an agreement with us or go out of business, our accounts receivable from the particular distributor would be subject to significant collection risk. Our reliance on distributors also subjects us to a number of additional risks, including: write-downs in inventories associated with stock rotation rights and increases in provisions for price adjustments granted to certain distributors; potential reduction or discontinuation of sales of our products by distributors; failure to devote resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; dependence upon the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital and all of which depend on general economic conditions and conditions within the semiconductor industry; dependence on the timeliness and accuracy of shipment forecasts and resale reports from our distributors; and management of relationships with distributors, which can deteriorate as a result of conflicts with efforts to sell directly to our end customers. If any significant distributor becomes unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, or if we are not able to renew our contracts with the distributors on acceptable terms, we may not be able to find a replacement distributor on reasonable terms or at all and our business could be harmed. 21 Our inability to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors. From time to time, it's possible our products could be diverted from our authorized distribution channels and customers may purchase products from the unauthorized "gray market." Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast demand accurately. Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our distribution channels compete with these discounted gray market products, which adversely affects demand for our products and negatively impacts our margins. In addition, our inability to control gray market activities could result in customer satisfaction issues because when products are purchased outside of our authorized distribution channels there is a risk that our customers are buying products that may have been altered, mishandled or damaged, or are used products represented as new. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulations, including Taxes, Financial Reporting Rules and Regulations, and Environmental Regulations Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure