Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) under Item 7 herein. In addition, the information set forth in the first paragraph and under the headings Introduction and Seasonality in the MD&A and the segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Note 17 are incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. 6 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge on or through our Internet website ( www.dstsystems.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, and Compensation Committee of the DST Board of Directors are available at investors.dstsystems.com/govdocs . These guidelines and charters are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. Written requests may be made to the DST Corporate Secretary, 333 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, and oral requests may be made by calling the DST Corporate Secretarys Office at (816) 435-8655. An individual may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or share price in the future. Risks Related to Our Business Trends or events affecting our clients or their industries could decrease the demand for our products and services and the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers could materially harm our business and results of operations. We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the mutual fund, brokerage, investment management, healthcare, and other financial service (e.g., insurance, banking and financial planning) industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products decreases or any of the industries we serve decline or fail or consolidate, reducing the number of potential clients, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. On a consolidated basis, for the year ended December 31, 2016 , our five largest customers (excluding BFDS and IFDS, our 50%-owned joint ventures with State Street) accounted for approximately 22.0% of our consolidated operating revenues. For the same period, the Healthcare Services segments five largest customers accounted for approximately 51.4% of our revenue in that segment, including 17.8% from its largest customer. Because of our significant customer concentration, particularly in the Healthcare Services segment, our revenue could fluctuate significantly due to changes in economic conditions, the use of competitive products, or the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers, and a delay or default in payment by any significant customer could materially harm our business and results of operations. Events that adversely affect our clients businesses, rates of growth or numbers of customers they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients businesses include decreased demand for our customers products and services, adverse conditions in our customers markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential customers will accept our products or services. We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific customers and not realize additional revenue from such investments. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. 7 Table of Contents We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. We have developed and maintained, and our businesses depend on, information technology, including elements both internal and external, to record and process a large volume of complex transactions and other data, including personally identifiable information regarding financial and health matters. In certain circumstances, vendors have access to such data in order to assist us with responsibilities, such as producing benefit plan identification cards, maintaining software we license on our own behalf or resell to others, or helping clients comply with anti-money laundering regulations. Any interruptions, delays, breakdowns, or breach, including as a result of cybersecurity breaches or breaches of our environments and procedures or those of our vendors, could result in significant data losses or theft of our or our customers intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. In recent years, several health care and financial services firms were victims of computer systems hacking attacks, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data, and reputational harm. Rapid advances in technology, and the limits and costs of technology, skills and manpower, may prevent us from anticipating, identifying, preventing or addressing all potential security threats and breaches. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the markets perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues, regulatory penalties, and litigation. The demand for our products and services could decrease if we do not continually address our clients technology and capacity requirements. Our clients use technology-based products and services in the complex and rapidly changing markets in which they operate. We may not have effective and efficient processes to support the design, set-up, quality assurance, and maintenance activities for the timely implementation of new client services, migration of existing clients onto new or different platforms, and ongoing servicing that meets the needs of the business and clients. We must substantially invest in technology and systems to meet customer requirements for technology and capacity. If we do not meet clients technology and capacity requirements in advance of our competitors or if the investments we make are not cost-effective or do not result in successful products or services, our business could be adversely affected. The success of the information technology transformation initiative will depend on the timing, extent and cost of implementation; performance of third-parties; upgrade requirements; and availability and reliability of the various technologies required to provide such transformation. We must continually invest in our information technology in order to continually meet our clients needs. We are implementing a multi-year information technology transformation initiative intended to reduce operating costs, increase information security, upgrade infrastructure, implement automation, provide access to emerging technologies and position us to take advantage of market opportunities. If we fail to provide an enhanced client experience, our ability to retain and attract clients and to maintain and grow revenues could be adversely affected. Using new and sophisticated technology on a very large scale entails risks. For example, deployment of new software may adversely affect the performance of existing services on our existing platforms and decrease the customer experience. If implementation of our information technology transformation initiative were delayed or costs exceed expected amounts, our margins could be adversely affected and such effects could be material. If the delivery of services expected to be deployed on modernized architecture were delayed due to technological constraints, performance of third-party suppliers, or other reasons, the cost of providing such services could become higher than expected, which could result in higher costs to clients, potentially resulting in decisions to purchase services from our competitors, which would adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow from operations. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our business strategy anticipates that we will supplement internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable businesses to acquire. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other complementary businesses. Information we obtain about an acquisition target may be limited and there can be no assurance that an acquisition will perform as expected or positively impact our financial performance. Potential acquisitions involve risk, including the risk we would be unable to effectively integrate the acquired technologies, operations and personnel into our business, and the risk that managements attention and our capital would be diverted from other areas of our business. The anticipated benefits of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the issuance of capital stock, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents In addition, we have divested, and may in the future divest, businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in continued responsibility for the divested business, including through indemnification, for a period of time following the transaction, which could adversely affect our financial results. If our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, our financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We are investing heavily in our technology to improve existing products and services and add new products and services to address the needs of existing or new clients. Our investments may not lead to successful deployment or increases in the number of accounts or transactions. If we are not successful in creating value from our investments by increasing sales or reducing expenses, our financial condition and prospects could be harmed. An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues. We service open-end and closed-end funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, interval funds and exchange-listed closed-end funds, as well as private funds, collective investment trusts and other accounts under shareowner recordkeeping arrangements which we refer to as registered accounts. These arrangements are distinguished from broker subaccounts, which are serviced under contract with a broker/dealer. Our clients may adopt the broker subaccount structure. We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform shareowner subaccounting. As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis. Brokerage firms that obtain agreements from our clients to use a broker subaccount structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which generally results in lower revenues. While subaccounting conversions have generally been limited to our non tax-advantaged mutual fund accounts, such conversions have begun to extend to the tax-advantaged accounts (such as retirement and Section 529 accounts) we service, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Consolidation in or among our customers and potential customers could result in a reduction of customers or reduction in use of our services. Mergers or acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers or between our customers and other entities could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers and result in the discontinuation or reduction in use of our services. This could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the activities of the consolidated entities. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our businesses are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to intense competition from other established service providers in all industries we serve. Some of our competitors are able to bundle service offerings and offer more appealing pricing structures. Some of our clients, or the clients they serve, may develop, have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the transaction processing and recordkeeping services they have paid us to perform. Additionally, some of our competitors and clients have greater financial and human resources and access to capital than we do. In the financial and healthcare markets we serve, we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and other intermediary relationships, quality of service, and level of fees charged for services. We continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products and services offered. Our failure to successfully compete in any of our material operating businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition could also affect the revenue mix of services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to sustain critical operations and provide essential products and services during system failures or catastrophic events. Damage to our facilities could impact our operations or financial condition. The performance of our services also depends upon facilities that house central computer operations or operating centers. Significant damage to any of our operating facilities could interrupt the operations at those facilities and interfere with our ability to serve customers. Moreover, in the event of a catastropic event we may not be able to execute our business resumption strategies for data processing and capabilities, and we may not have the ability to recover critical data, programs, applications, and data processing capabilities in a timely manner; any of these could impact our ability to serve our clients. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to currency fluctuations and foreign political, economic and other conditions that could adversely affect our revenues from or support by foreign operations. Inherent risks in our international business activities could decrease our international sales and also could adversely affect our ability to receive important support from our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. These risks include potentially unfavorable foreign economic conditions, political conditions or national priorities, foreign government regulation, potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, the failure to bridge cultural differences, and limited or prohibited access to our foreign operations and the support they provide. We may also have difficulty repatriating any profits or be adversely affected by currency fluctuations in our international business. Various events may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. The nature of these events might inhibit our ability to anticipate and act in advance to counter them. We may be unsuccessful in determining or controlling when and whether events occur that could cause varying financial results. Unfavorable results may occur that we did not anticipate or take advance action to address. We incur significant costs to develop products used to service our existing and potential client operations. The timing of these expenses may fluctuate as new client contracts are signed or existing client contracts are renewed, causing our results to vary accordingly. Factors contributing to the variability of our results include increased costs of supplies, increased costs relating to existing and potential client operations, and hiring staff to develop new and existing products. The timing of our fees associated with new and existing client contracts, including changes in recognition as a result of changes in accounting principles, may also cause results to vary from period to period. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. We generate significant revenues from the transaction processing fees we earn for our services. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. The number of unique securities positions held by investors through our clients and our clients customer trading volumes reflect the levels of participation and activity in the markets, which are impacted by market prices and the liquidity of the securities markets, among other factors. We could continue to be negatively impacted by the volatile markets as certain of our fees are tied to the asset bases of our clients. The occurrence of significant market volatility or decreased levels of participation would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our business operations. Additionally, we may be exposed to operational or other risks in connection with any systematic failures in the markets, or the default due to market-related failures of one or more counterparties with whom we transact. We also derive significant revenues from asset management, administration and distribution contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management (AUM), assets under administration (AUA) and number of transactions processed. AUM, AUA or the number of transactions processed may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary. Factors that could decrease AUM and AUA (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally. Our revenues may decrease due to changes in asset management, administration and distribution fees and industry trends The asset management, administration and distribution business is highly competitive and we compete for investors and clients on the basis of factors such as performance, reputation, service, and cost. Underperformance of any of our proprietary and client products, damage to our reputation, or service-related issues could lead to redemptions or terminations. Additionally, the asset management industry has generally been subject to fee compression and asset flows to lower cost products. Such a trend may result in fee compression in asset management, administration and distribution related contracts. The asset management, administration and distribution contracts may be terminated by the parties thereto, and the board of directors or trustees of 10 Table of Contents certain funds may terminate investment management, administration and distribution agreements for any reason and without penalty. The factors and trends described above could have a material adverse effect on revenues. Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any substantial loss would have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. Operational errors in the performance of our services or contractual obligations, as well as unknown or undetected defects, could lead to liability for claims, client loss and result in reputational damage. The failure to properly perform our services or contractual obligations could result in our clients and/or certain of our subsidiaries being subjected to losses including censures, fines, or other sanctions by applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. Despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could cause us to compromise customer data, lose revenues, lose clients, divert development resources, or damage our reputation, any of which could harm our business. Our revenues could decrease if client contracts are terminated or fail to renew or if clients renegotiate contracts or utilize our services at lower than anticipated levels. We derive most of our revenue by selling products and services under long-term contracts, many of which contain terms and conditions based on anticipated levels of utilization of our services. We cannot unilaterally extend the terms of our client contracts when they expire. Contracts can terminate during the term of agreement for various reasons, including through termination for convenience clauses in some contracts that enable clients to cancel by written notice. Our revenues could decrease as a result of terminations or non-renewals of client contracts; extensions of client contracts under, or contract re-negotiations resulting in, less favorable terms; or utilization of services at less than anticipated levels. We are substantially dependent on our intellectual property rights, and a claim for infringement or a requirement to indemnify a client for infringement could adversely affect us. We have made substantial investments in software and other intellectual property on which our business is highly dependent. Businesses we acquire also often depend on intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges we face in protecting our strategic advantage. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position and, ultimately, our business. Our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad may not be adequate and others, including our competitors, may use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent available, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws; however, significant portions of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by patents. We also utilize nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and security measures to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee these measures will be effective. Our products and services rely on technology developed by others, including open source software, and we have no control over possible infringement of someone elses intellectual property rights by the provider of this technology. The owner of the rights could seek damages from us rather than or in addition to the persons who provide the technology to us. We could be subject at any time to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to evaluate and defend. Our clients may also face infringement claims, allege that such claims relate to our products and services, and seek indemnification from us. Any loss of our intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights of others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Our investments in funds and other companies could decline in value. We hold significant investments in available-for-sale equity securities of other companies, primarily State Street Corporation, and other financial interests that are subject to fluctuations in market prices. A significant decline in the value of our equity investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them or than the value of the consideration used to acquire them. From time to time we add new investment strategies to our investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as seed capital. The seed capital investments may decline in value. A significant decline in their value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them. We also participate in joint ventures with other companies. These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions. We have restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. If we do not comply with these restrictive covenants, our failure could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary investments, and asset dispositions, and require us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in reduced liquidity for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under one of our debt agreements could result in a cross default under one or more of our other debt agreements, including our financing agreements. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position and results of operation. Regulatory and Litigation Risks We and our unconsolidated affiliates are subject to regulation. Any regulatory violations, changes or uncertainties could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to U.S. or foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, retirement, reporting and related regulations. New products and services we plan to offer may also be subject to regulation, either directly or as a downstream provider to customers or clients. Such regulations cover all aspects of our businesses including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker/dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, net capital, anti-money laundering efforts, healthcare, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Any violation of applicable regulations could expose us or those businesses to civil or criminal liability, significant fines or sanctions, damage our reputation, the revocation of licenses, censures, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, which could adversely affect our business or our financial results. Governmental changes, changing interpretation of regulations, and uncertainties surrounding services we provide could increase our costs of business, result in penalties, or diminish business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The SEC or other regulatory agencies may issue regulations impacting mutual fund service providers, which could adversely affect our business. The Department of Labor (DOL) recently issued fiduciary regulations that, if not delayed, repealed or substantially altered in the near future, are likely to impact our business. The SEC or other regulatory agencies may issue regulations impacting third-party service providers of mutual funds and other fund-types products, such as distributors, administrators, or custodians, (collectively referred to as mutual funds), which could adversely affect our business. The SEC may issue additional regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) or other legislative authority that would require brokers and financial intermediaries that distribute mutual funds to make more detailed fee disclosures at the point-of-sale. Additionally, brokers and financial intermediaries may become, in some instances, subject to a new DOL-imposed fiduciary standard-of-care that, if applicable, could cause them to alter their methods of distribution, share class structure, and/or wholesaling activities. It is not yet clear what impact they may have on such activities. It is also unclear whether the regulations will be delayed, repealed or substantially altered in the near future. We cannot predict all of the requirements the SEC or FINRA may impose. Regulations that would cause current distribution channels or interest in mutual fund investing to change could decrease the number of 12 Table of Contents accounts on our systems as a result of changes in client offerings or the attractiveness of offerings to customers of our clients. The biggest impact of the fiduciary regulations is expected to fall on brokers and registered investment advisers who give individualized non-discretionary advice in the retail marketplace, but discretionary investment managers in the institutional space are also expected to be affected, primarily in connection with sales of investment products and services. To the extent that our business units, clients, unaffiliated intermediary partners and retirement plan service providers fit into these categories, this could adversely affect our business and operating results. Additionally, to the extent the Dodd- Frank Act and/or DOL regulations impact the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. Our clients are subject to regulation that could affect our business. Our clients are subject to extensive regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to services we provide to the financial services industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry. Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. For example, our accounts in our Healthcare Services segment are impacted by the Affordable Care Act, including the Health Insurance Marketplace. Changes to the Affordable Care Act may be enacted by Congress in response to the new administrations stated agenda, and we cannot predict the impact that will have on our customers and their demand for our services. Our businesses expose us to risks of claims and losses that could be significant and damage our reputation and business prospects. Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a clients instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based upon, among other theories, various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our services, or cause us to make costly operating changes. Risks Related to Corporate Governance or our Equity Securities We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership. We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which could, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. We own interests in unconsolidated entities, including Boston Financial Data Services, International Financial Data Services Limited Partnership, International Financial Data Services Limited, and various real estate joint ventures. Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which could restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. These arrangements could also allow us to purchase the other owners interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so. The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time. Various plans, agreements, laws and organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain plans and agreements, and applicable laws could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover that is not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions include: super-majority stockholder approval required for certain actions; specific procedures for stockholders to nominate new directors; the Boards authority to issue and set the terms of preferred stock; various rights of joint venture co-owners, lenders and certain customers and executives in the event of a change in control; public reporting of ownership and of changes in ownership by stockholders with at least a 5% interest in us; and legal restrictions on business combinations with certain stockholders. Because of contractual commitments, a change in control could affect our operating results and weaken our management retention and incentive tools. A change in control of the Company could trigger various rights and obligations in service agreements with certain customers and in agreements governing our joint ventures. A change in control could also allow some clients to terminate their agreements with us or to obtain rights to use our processing software. We are parties to joint venture agreements that allow other co-owners to buy our equity interests if we undergo a change in control. Under certain executive equity-based and other incentive compensation awards, benefit programs and employment agreements with our management, a change in control by itself, or an individuals termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason (each as defined in applicable agreements) after a change in control could accelerate funding, payment or vesting of equity grants, as applicable, under such agreements and programs. This accelerated funding, vesting or payment may decrease an employees incentive to continue employment with us. We have adopted an executive severance plan which, among other things, provides benefits to participating senior officers and executives who are terminated in connection with a change of control. Certain other executive officers have agreements with us that require us to continue to employ them for three years after a change in control or to pay certain amounts if we terminate their employment without cause or they resign for good reason following a change in control. The executives might not be incented to achieve desired results for the new owners of our business, and the cost of keeping the executives on the payroll might deter potential new owners from acquiring us or hinder new owners from hiring replacement management. We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Future cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our main operating facilities, including our corporate headquarters, are located in Kansas City, Missouri and consist of 1.1 million square feet of office space, of which 54% is owned and 46% is leased, and 162,000 square feet of owned data center space. Additionally, we own an aggregate 222,000 square feet of space consisting primarily of a back-up data center in St. Louis, Missouri and office space in California and the United Kingdom. We lease an aggregate of 697,000 square feet of other office space and production space in North America, India, Thailand, Australia and Canada. Of the 2.2 million square feet of space identified above, the Company leases and subleases approximately 153,000 square feet to third-parties. Approximately 81%, 16% and 3% of the remaining square footage is utilized by the Financial Services, Healthcare Services and Investments and Other segments, respectively. In addition, we also lease approximately 556,000 square feet of other office space and 14 Table of Contents production space in the United Kingdom for operations that are included within our discontinued operations. We also own undeveloped land in Kansas City, Missouri and California and an underground facility with approximately 538,000 square feet in Kansas City, Missouri, of which 497,000 square feet is leased to third parties. Our real estate joint ventures own 2.7 million square feet of real estate, of which 2.2 million square feet is occupied by third parties or is vacant. We believe our facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. The following table summarizes the square footage of U.S. real estate facilities wholly-owned by DST or owned through unconsolidated affiliates of DST as of December 31, 2016 (in millions): DST wholly-owned (1) Joint venture-owned (2) Occupied by DST or unconsolidated affiliates 0.5 0.5 Occupied by third parties or vacant 0.2 2.2 Total 0.7 2.7 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Amounts exclude square footage of wholly-owned data centers and an underground facility located below our Kansas City, Missouri data center (2) Amounts exclude a joint venture-owned 1,000 room convention hotel and facilities owned and occupied by BFDS and IFDS Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses. While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 15 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following list presents certain information with respect to each of our executive officers as of February 28, 2017 . Jonathan J. Boehm , age 56, is our Executive Vice President and Head of our Healthcare businesses. He rejoined the Company in 1997 after prior service in the early 1980s. Prior to becoming an Executive Vice President managing our Healthcare businesses in 2009, he served as Group Vice President - Mutual Funds Full Service. He is responsible for our Healthcare Services segment, including DST HealthCare Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries DST Health Solutions and Argus Health Systems. Edmund J. Burke , age 56, is our Executive Vice President and President of ALPS. ALPS includes the Corporations investment management and asset servicing businesses. ALPS Holdings, Inc. became a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company during 2011. Mr. Burke joined ALPS in 1991 and has served as President since 2000. As part of his responsibilities for the ALPS group of companies, Mr. Burke is President and Trustee of Clough Global Long/Short Fund, Clough Global Allocation Fund, Clough Global Equity Fund and Clough Global Opportunities Fund; Trustee of Liberty AllStar Equity Fund; Director of Liberty AllStar Growth Fund, Inc., and Chairman of the Board and President of Financial Investors Trust. Each of these funds operates as a registered investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Gregg Wm. Givens , age 56, is our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He assumed the roles of Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January of 2014. He joined the Company in 1996 as an officer and served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from 1999 through 2013. Stephen C. Hooley , age 53, is our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. He became Chief Executive Officer on September 12, 2012 and Chairman of the Board in July 2014. He joined the Company in mid2009 as President and Chief Operating Officer. He served from 2004 through mid2009 as President and Chief Executive Officer of BFDS. He served from 2009 through April 2013 as nonexecutive Chairman of BFDS. From 2007 through March 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of IFDS L.P. Vercie L. Lark , age 54, is our Executive Vice President and Head of our Financial Services businesses. He joined the Company as Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2010 and assumed his current title in April 2016. Mr. Lark previously served since July 2009 as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of CenturyLink, Inc., a provider of voice, broadband and video services. He had served since 2008 as the Chief Information Officer of Embarq Corporation, which was acquired in 2009 by CenturyLink. Maria Mann , age 54, is Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. She joined the Company in April 2016. From 2011 through April 2016, she served as Chief Technology Officer at JP Morgan Chase and Co., a multinational banking and financial services holding company. She is responsible for our global information technology infrastructure and architecture functions, global information privacy and security, and global information technology sourcing as well as risk and corporate applications. William Slattery , age 61, is Chief Executive Officer of DSTi Holdings Limited and Chairman of IFDS Ltd. He joined the Company in January 2017. Prior to joining DST, Mr. Slattery was Head of the Investment Servicing business for State Street Europe and held various executive positions at State Street since 2003. Before joining State Street, Mr. Slattery was Managing Director and Head of Global Risk Management at Deutsche Asset Management and Member of the Group Risk Board of Deutsche Bank AG. His earlier career included 23 years at the Central Bank of Ireland, including senior leadership roles with responsibility of Irelands International Financial Services Centre and as Deputy Head of Banking Supervision. Mr. Slattery, who has over 30 years in the financial services industry, was a former Chairman of Financial Services Ireland and was a member of the Public Expenditure Review Group. Mary E. Sweetman , age 53, is Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. She joined the Company in June 2013 as a vice president and assumed her current title in March 2014. Prior to joining the Company, she had served since 2007 as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Furniture Brands International, a home furnishings designer and manufacturer that, following her departure from that company, filed for bankruptcy in September 2013. Randall D. Young , age 60, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in mid2013. Since 2002, he had served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He joined the Company as a Vice President in 1995. 16 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock trades under the symbol DST on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As of February 13, 2017 , there were approximately 35,600 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table provides the quarterly prices of, and quarterly cash dividends paid on, the Companys common stock for the two-year period ended December 31, 2016 . Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by DSTs Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. On January 25, 2017 , the DST Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share on DSTs common stock. The dividend will be payable on March 10, 2017 , to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 24, 2017 . Dividend High Low 2015 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 109.81 $ 91.95 2nd Quarter 0.30 125.70 109.68 3rd Quarter 0.30 133.42 95.03 4th Quarter 0.30 124.52 105.08 2016 1st Quarter $ 0.33 $ 111.80 $ 97.92 2nd Quarter 0.33 120.79 106.15 3rd Quarter 0.33 125.07 115.73 4th Quarter 0.33 117.08 94.63 The prices set forth above do not include commissions and do not necessarily represent actual transactions. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 2016 was $107.15 . Stock Repurchases The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of our common stock purchased by us during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total $ Amount of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Amount That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 - October 31 675,677 (1) $ 111.09 $ 74,999,936 $ 150,000,077 November 1 - November 30 567 (1) 103.47 150,000,077 December 1 - December 31 234 (1) 107.65 150,000,077 Total 676,478 $ 111.31 $ 74,999,936 $ 150,000,077 (2) _______________________________________________________________________ (1) For the three months ended December 31, 2016 , we purchased, in accordance with the 2015 Equity and Incentive Plan, 1,383 shares of our common stock for participant income tax withholding in conjunction with stock option exercises or from the vesting of restricted stock shares, as requested by the participants or from shares surrendered in satisfaction of option exercise price. These purchases were not made under the publicly-announced repurchase plans or programs, but were allowed by the rules of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Of these shares, 582 shares were purchased in October 2016 , 567 shares were purchased in November 2016 , and 234 shares were purchased in December 2016 . (2) On June 13, 2016 our Board of Directors authorized a new $300.0 million share repurchase plan. The plan allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. The plan does not have an expiration date. We have entered and may enter into one or more plans with our brokers or banks for pre-authorized purchases within defined limits pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 to affect all or a portion of such share repurchases. 17 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph shows the changes in value since December 31, 2011 of an assumed investment of $100 in: (i) DST Common Stock; (ii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap index (1) ; and (iii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap Index - Information Technology Sector (1) (S&P MidCap IT Index). The table following the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of December 31, 2016 and as of December 31 for each of the five preceding years. The value for the assumed investments depicted on the graph and in the table has been calculated assuming that cash dividends, if any, are reinvested at the end of each quarter in which they are paid. Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return As of December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 DST Systems, Inc $ 100.00 $ 135.05 $ 205.56 $ 216.01 $ 264.52 $ 251.44 S&P MidCap 400 Index 100.00 117.88 157.37 172.74 168.98 204.03 S&P MidCap IT Index 100.00 115.21 148.38 160.13 161.11 195.70 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Standard & Poors Corporation, an independent company, prepares the S&P 400 MidCap Index and the S&P Midcap IT Index. 18 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and our audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon and the other financial information included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We completed the sale of our North American Customer Communications business in 2016 and our Board of Directors approved a plan for management to pursue the divestiture of our United Kingdom Customer Communications business. As a result, the Customer Communications segment, as well as certain business previously reported in the Financial Services segment that were part of the 2016 sale, have been reported as discontinued operations and excluded from the amounts in the table below. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to be consistent with the current period presentation. Year Ended December 31, 2016 (1) 2015 (2) 2014 (3) 2013 (4) 2012 (5) Income Statement Data: (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pockets) $ 1,474.4 $ 1,405.0 $ 1,445.5 $ 1,368.2 $ 1,277.8 Operating income 247.3 232.7 262.7 271.8 202.9 Other income, net 22.7 204.5 373.1 242.8 373.3 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and non-controlling interest 279.2 458.8 744.7 503.1 565.0 Income from continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. 179.0 309.7 560.8 324.7 383.7 Basic earnings per share - Continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (6) 5.43 8.60 14.01 7.51 8.55 Diluted earnings per share - Continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (6) 5.37 8.50 13.86 7.37 8.38 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share - Continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (6) (7) 5.73 4.93 4.97 4.22 3.98 Cash dividends per share of common stock 1.32 1.20 1.20 1.20 0.80 December 31, 2016 (1) 2015 (2) 2014 (3) 2013 (4) 2012 (5) Balance Sheet Data: (dollars in millions) Total assets $ 2,771.8 $ 2,813.2 $ 2,942.9 $ 3,090.5 $ 3,392.5 Total debt 508.2 562.1 546.8 675.6 1,003.7 Stockholders equity 1,115.2 1,046.0 1,236.4 1,183.8 1,079.7 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) In 2016, we acquired Kaufman Rossin Fund Services LLC. Additionally, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $16.3 million, which is included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2) In 2015, we acquired the following businesses: kasina LLC, Red Rocks Capital LLC and Wealth Management Systems Inc. Additionally, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $199.3 million, which is included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (3) In 2014, we recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale of the wholly-owned subsidiary, DST Global Solutions, Ltd., which is included in Gain on sale of business in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $343.5 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (4) In 2013, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $222.8 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income (5) In 2012, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $293.7 million and dividend income from a private company investment of $48.4 million, both of which are included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (6) During the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , we repurchased 2.7 million , 3.6 million , 4.7 million , 3.8 million and 1.8 million shares of our common stock, respectively. 19 Table of Contents (7) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the impact of certain items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or are non-operational items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but non-GAAP diluted earnings should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. A description of the use of non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to DST Systems, Inc. is below. Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information In addition to reporting financial information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), we have disclosed non-GAAP financial information which has been reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures in the following financial schedules titled Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share - Continuing Operations Attributable to DST Systems, Inc. In making these adjustments to determine the non-GAAP results, we take into account the impact of items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, that do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or that are non-operational in nature. Generally, these items include net gains on dispositions of business units, net gains (losses) associated with securities and other investments, restructuring and impairment costs, and other similar items. Beginning in 2016, we have also included acquired intangible asset amortization for all periods presented. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. Management uses non-GAAP measures in its budgeting and forecasting processes and to further analyze our financial trends and operational run-rate, as well as in making financial comparisons to prior periods presented on a similar basis. We believe that providing such adjusted results allows investors and other users of our financial statements to better understand our comparative operating performance for the periods presented. DSTs management uses each of these non-GAAP financial measures in its own evaluation of our performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Our non-GAAP measures may differ from similar measures by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although our management believes non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating the performance of our business, we acknowledge that items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on our financial information calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP results. These factors should be considered when evaluating our results. Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share - Continuing Operations Attributable to DST Systems, Inc. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Reported GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 5.37 $ 8.50 $ 13.86 $ 7.37 $ 8.38 Adjusted to remove: Net gains on securities and other investments (0.33 ) (3.42 ) (5.26 ) (3.14 ) (4.54 ) Amortization of intangible assets 0.44 0.32 0.28 0.25 0.29 Restructuring charges 0.30 0.06 0.20 0.06 0.25 Income tax items 0.12 (0.43 ) (0.91 ) (0.24 ) (0.40 ) Net gain on sale of business (0.16 ) (2.64 ) Software impairment 0.11 Reversal of accrued contingent consideration (0.12 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates items (0.06 ) (0.09 ) (0.10 ) (0.20 ) Business development/advisory expenses 0.02 0.09 0.02 Net (gains) losses on real estate assets (0.06 ) 0.04 0.09 Gain on contract to repurchase common stock (0.45 ) Loss accruals (loss accrual reversal) (0.12 ) 0.06 0.04 Charitable contribution of securities 0.01 (0.06 ) Contract termination payments received, net (0.08 ) Insurance Solutions asset impairment and other costs 0.11 Adjusted Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 5.73 $ 4.93 $ 4.97 $ 4.22 $ 3.98 20 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, will, would, or target. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the effects of competition in the businesses in which we operate; changes in customer demand and our ability to provide products and services on terms that are favorable to us; changes in law, economic and financial conditions; the impacts of breaches or potential breaches of network, information technology or data security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; our investments in joint ventures or other unconsolidated affiliates; for example, some of our joint venture investments are subject to contractual obligations which could restrict us from selling such interests; the effectiveness of our risk management framework; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation and litigation and potential SEC or DOL regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds; our investments in funds and other companies may decline; our ability to successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses; and the other factors that are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. These or other uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. This document includes certain forward-looking projected financial information that is based on current estimates and forecasts. Actual results could differ materially. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact our financial statements or results of operations are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized. Introduction DST Systems, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, us, the Company or DST) use proprietary software applications to provide sophisticated information processing and servicing solutions through strategically unified data management and business processing solutions to clients globally within the asset management, brokerage, retirement, healthcare and other markets. Our wholly-owned data centers provide the secure technology infrastructure necessary to support our solutions. We manage our business through two operating segments: Financial Services and Healthcare Services. Our investments in equity securities, private equity investments, real estate and certain financial interests have been aggregated into an Investments and Other segment. In connection with the execution of our strategic plan, which includes focusing on the Financial Services and Healthcare markets, we sold our North American Customer Communications business for cash consideration of $410.7 million on July 1, 2016. We recorded a pretax gain of $341.5 million on the sale during 2016. Additionally, during the second quarter 2016, our Board of Directors approved a plan for management to divest of our U.K. Customer Communications business. As a result of this significant shift in the strategic direction of our operations, we have classified the results of the businesses sold and being sold as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statement of Income for all periods presented. The net after-tax proceeds from the sale are being used in accordance with the Companys capital plan, including investments in the business, share repurchases, strategic acquisitions, debt repayments and other corporate purposes. 21 Table of Contents Financial Services Segment DSTs proprietary software applications enable us to offer our customers information processing solutions that enable them to capture, analyze and report their investors transactions. Examples of the services we provide include tracking of purchases, redemptions, exchanges and transfers of shares; maintaining investor identification and ownership records; reconciling cash and share activity; processing dividends; reporting sales; performing tax and other compliance functions; and providing information for printing of investor trade confirmations, statements and year-end tax forms. Services are provided either under a remote processing model or on a BPO basis. Our BPO service offerings are enhanced by our proprietary workflow software, AWD, which is also licensed separately to third parties. In the U.S. we provide services to mutual funds, brokerage firms, retirement plans and alternative investment funds (such as real estate investment trusts) either directly or through BFDS, our joint venture with State Street. In Australia and the U.K., we license software solutions to funds and fund managers, who perform participant accounting and recordkeeping for the wealth management and retirement savings market. We also provide investor services on a Remote and BPO basis internationally (U.K., Canada, Ireland and Luxembourg) solely through IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P., which are joint ventures with State Street. Financial Services fees are primarily charged to the client based on the number of accounts, participants or transactions processed. For subaccounts, a portion of the services we provide for registered accounts are provided directly by the broker/dealer. As a result, our revenue per account is generally higher for registered accounts than for subaccounts. On a more limited basis, we also generate revenue through asset-based fee arrangements and from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in our full service transfer agency bank accounts. We typically have multi-year agreements with our clients. We receive revenues for processing services and products provided under various agreements with unconsolidated affiliates. We believe that the terms of our contracts with unconsolidated affiliates are fair to us and are no less favorable to us than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. Our operating revenues derived from sales to unconsolidated affiliates, primarily BFDS and IFDS, were $138.5 million , $134.9 million and $135.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. We continue to evaluate the products and services we offer within the Financial Services segment and have identified certain offerings in which the increased risk and required investment resulting from recent regulations outweighs the benefit we expect to receive. As a result of this evaluation, during 2016 we made the decision to exit certain non-core products and services. We expect the exit of these businesses will result in approximately $8.6 million less operating revenue and $3.8 million less operating income on an annual basis. Additionally, in November 2016, we sold a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary that provides water billing software and services solutions for cash consideration of approximately $6.1 million , subject to customary working capital post-closing adjustments. This business had approximately $5.4 million of operating revenue and $1.2 million of operating income on an annual basis. As these decisions were the result of a tactical review of our products and services, and not the result of a significant shift in strategic direction, the revenue and operating income from these products and services are included within our continuing operations. We are also continuing to monitor changes in the financial services industry, including the shift from direct products to fee-based platforms which could reduce the number of direct mutual fund registered accounts we service. On February 24, 2016, we acquired all of the membership interests of KRFS, for $94.7 million in cash, after giving effect to a $0.3 million adjustment agreed upon in June 2016 to settle working capital under the terms of the agreement. KRFS is an independent, full-service provider of specialized hedge fund administration services to the global financial community. KRFS hedge fund services include accounting and valuation, back-office outsourcing, investor services, treasury services, and customized reporting. We expect the acquisition to provide us with additional opportunities within the alternative investment marketplace and expand our asset administration service offerings. During 2015, we acquired all of the membership interests of kasina LLC, a strategic advisory firm to the asset management industry, and Red Rocks Capital LLC, an asset manager which focuses on listed private equity and other private asset investments. In 2015, we also acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Wealth Management Systems Inc., a provider of technology-based rollover services in the retirement marketplace. In December 2015, we entered into a ten year contract with a new client to provide both subaccounting and mutual fund servicing solutions. The client converted approximately 10.0 million subaccounts onto our platform during 2016 and based on current volumes, is expected to convert approximately 2.3 million registered accounts onto our platform by the end of 2017. Implementation efforts have resulted in increased costs that are expected to continue through 2017 as we convert the client onto our platform. During 2014, we sold our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, DST Global Solutions Limited and certain related affiliates (together, Global Solutions). Global Solutions provided post-trade, middle-, and back-office investment management software applications, implementation and other professional services. 22 Table of Contents Healthcare Services Segment The Healthcare Services segment uses our proprietary software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. Our healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. We also continue to expand and enhance our Healthcare Services offerings to ensure we are able to address the changing needs of our clients within the complex and highly regulated health industries which we serve. For example, our pharmacy management business continues to make investments to expand our clinical, network, and analytic capabilities to help our customers and prospective customers achieve the best possible outcomes for their members and to allow us to more effectively compete in the broader competitive pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) market. Historically, we have acted as an agent within our pharmacy-solutions business and, accordingly, recognized revenue on a net basis. As our enhanced products evolve and we expand our pharmacy-solutions service offerings, we will evaluate the provisions within our new pharmacy network and customer contracts to determine whether we are acting as a principal or an agent in the transactions. If we determine that we are acting as a principal in the transactions, we will report the transactions on a gross basis, resulting in significantly higher revenues and costs reflected within our consolidated financial statements. We generally derive revenue from our pharmacy-solutions business on a transactional fee basis. Fees are earned on pharmacy claims processing and payments services, pharmacy and member call center services, pharmaceutical rebate administration, administration or management of clinical programs, pharmacy network management, member and plan web services and management information and reporting. Further, revenues include investment earnings related to client cash balances maintained in our bank accounts. Medical claim processing revenues are generally derived from fees charged on a per member/per month basis or transactional basis. We also realize revenue from fixed-fee license agreements that include provisions for ongoing support and maintenance and for additional license payments in the event that usage or members increase. Additionally, we derive professional service revenues from fees for implementation services, custom programming and data center operations. During 2016, two of our Healthcare Services customers notified us that they would begin transitioning their services off our systems effective January 2017. We continue to expect our Healthcare Services segment to achieve strong revenue growth through a combination of new client wins and organic growth. However, we now expect this growth will derive from a smaller revenue base, which will result in lower overall segment revenue growth during 2017 as compared to 2016. Investments and Other Segment The Investments and Other segment is comprised of our real estate consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, investments in equity securities, private equity investments and other financial interests. The assets held by this segment are primarily passive in nature. The Investments and Other segments revenues are derived from rental income from third-party real estate leases. Rental income is recorded as revenue when, based on lease terms, it is earned. The Investments and Other segment records investment income (dividends, interest and net gains or losses on investment securities) within Other income, net. The Investments and Other segment derives part of its income from its pro rata share in the earnings or losses of certain unconsolidated affiliates. We make lease payments to certain real estate joint ventures. Seasonality Generally, we do not have significant seasonal fluctuations in our business operations. Processing volumes for mutual fund customers within our Financial Services segment are usually highest during the quarter ended March 31 due primarily to processing year-end transactions during January. We have historically added operating equipment in the last half of the year in preparation for processing year-end transactions, which has the effect of increasing costs for the second half of the year. Revenues and operating results from individual license sales vary depending on the timing and size of the contracts. New Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies - New authoritative accounting guidance. 23 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: revenue recognition; software capitalization and amortization; depreciation of fixed assets; valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill; accounting for investments; and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition We recognize revenue when it is realized or realizable and it is earned. The majority of our revenues are derived from computer processing and services and are recognized upon completion of the services provided. Software license fees, maintenance fees and other ancillary fees are recognized as services are provided or delivered and all customer obligations have been met. We generally do not have payment terms from customers that extend beyond one year. Billing for services in advance of performance is recorded as deferred revenue. We recognize revenue when the following criteria are met: 1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; 2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. If there is a customer-specific acceptance provision in a contract or if there is uncertainty about customer acceptance, the associated revenue is deferred until we have evidence of customer acceptance. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables (items) can be divided into more than one unit of accounting. An item can generally be considered a separate unit of accounting if both of the following criteria are met: 1) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a standalone basis and 2) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. Once separate units of accounting are determined, the arrangement consideration should be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. Relative selling price is obtained from sources such as vendor-specific objective evidence, which is based on the separate selling price for that or a similar item or from third-party evidence such as how competitors have priced similar items. If such evidence is unavailable, we use our best estimate of the selling price, which includes various internal factors such as our pricing strategy and market factors. We derive over 90% of our revenues as a result of providing processing and services under contracts. The majority of our fees are billed on a monthly basis, generally with thirty-day collection terms. Revenues are recognized for monthly processing and services upon performance of the services. Our standard business practice is to bill monthly for development, consulting and training services on a time and materials basis. In some cases we bill a fixed fee for development and consulting services. For fixed fee arrangements, we recognize revenue on a proportionate performance basis. We derive less than 10% of our revenues from licensing products. We license our wealth management products, AWD products and healthcare administration processing software solutions. Perpetual software license revenues are recognized at the time the contract is signed, the software is delivered and no future software obligations exist. Deferral of software license revenue billed results from delayed payment provisions, disproportionate discounts between the license and other services or the inability to unbundle certain services. Term software license revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement. While license fee revenues are not a significant percentage of our total operations, they can significantly impact earnings in the period in which they are recognized. Revenues from individual license sales depend heavily on the timing, size and nature of the contract. We recognize revenues for maintenance services ratably over the contract term, after collectibility has been reasonably assured. We may enter into arrangements with broker/dealers or other third parties to sell or market closed-end fund shares. Depending on the arrangement, we may earn distribution fees for marketing and selling the underlying fund shares. Conversely, we may incur distribution expenses, including structuring fees, finders fees and referral fees paid to unaffiliated broker/dealers or introducing parties for marketing and selling underlying fund shares of a closed-end fund we sponsor. While distribution 24 Table of Contents revenues and expenses are not significant percentages of our operating revenues or costs and expenses, they can significantly impact operations and earnings in the period in which they are recognized. We have entered into various agreements with related parties, principally unconsolidated affiliates, under which we provide data processing and software services. We believe that the terms of our contracts with related parties are fair to us and are no less favorable than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. We assess collection based on a variety of factors, including past collection history with the customer and the credit-worthiness of the customer. We generally do not request collateral from our customers. If we determine that collection of revenues is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred and is recognized at the time it becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowances for billing adjustments and doubtful account expense are estimated as revenues are recognized. Allowances for billing adjustments are recorded as reductions in revenues and doubtful account expense is recorded within Costs and expenses. The annual amounts for these items are immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. Software capitalization and amortization We make substantial investments in software to enhance the functionality and facilitate the delivery of our processing services as well as our sale of licensed products. Purchased software is recorded at cost and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. We also develop a large portion of our software internally. We capitalize software development costs for computer software developed or obtained for internal use after the preliminary project phase has been completed and management has committed to funding the project. For computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed to third parties, we capitalize software development costs which are incurred after the products reach technological feasibility but prior to the general release of the product to customers. The capitalized software development costs are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. Significant management judgment is required in determining what projects and costs associated with software development will be capitalized and in assigning estimated economic lives to the completed projects. Management specifically evaluates software development projects and analyzes the percentage of completion as compared to the initial plan and subsequent forecasts, milestones achieved and the commitment to continue funding the projects. Significant changes in any of these items may result in discontinuing capitalization of development costs, as well as immediately expensing previously capitalized costs. We review, on a quarterly basis, our capitalized software for possible impairment. Depreciation of fixed assets Our approach on personal property, specifically technology equipment is to own the property as opposed to leasing it where practicable. We believe this approach provides us with better flexibility for disposing or redeploying the asset as it nears the completion of its economic life. We depreciate technology equipment using accelerated depreciation methods over the following lives: (1) non-mainframe equipmentthree years; (2) mainframe central processing unitfour years; and (3) mainframe direct access storage devicesfive years. We depreciate furniture and fixtures over estimated useful lives, principally three to five years, using accelerated depreciation methods. We depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method over the lesser of the term of the lease or life of the improvements. Management judgment is required in assigning economic lives to fixed assets. Management specifically analyzes fixed asset additions, remaining net book values and gain/loss upon disposition of fixed assets to determine the appropriateness of assigned economic lives. Significant changes in any of these items may result in changes in the economic life assigned and the resulting depreciation expense. Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment. We evaluate the impairment of goodwill at least annually (as of October 1) and evaluate identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and related assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or our strategy for the overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When it is determined that the carrying value of intangibles, long-lived assets or goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we assess actual impairment based on gross cash flows. Our assessment of goodwill for impairment may first include a qualitative assessment that considers various factors, including those described above as well as growth in operating revenues and income from operations of our reporting units since our last quantitative assessment. A quantitative assessment is performed if the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if a qualitative assessment is not performed. 25 Table of Contents Our quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment includes comparing the fair value to the net book value of our reporting units. We estimate fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow models and market approaches. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. To measure the amount of any impairment loss, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the affected reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we allocate the fair value of the affected reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. Our 2016 , 2015 and 2014 annual goodwill impairment tests determined that goodwill was not impaired, except during 2016 for the goodwill held at the Customer Communications U.K. reporting unit, which is included as a component of discontinued operations, as further described in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data - Note 4, Discontinued Operations. Accounting for investments We have three significant types of investments: 1) investments in available-for-sale securities, the largest of which is our investment in State Street common stock; 2) investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is comprised principally of BFDS, IFDS U.K., IFDS L.P. and certain real estate joint ventures; and 3) investments in private equity funds and other investments accounted for under the cost method. We account for investments in entities in which we own less than 20% and do not have significant influence in accordance with authoritative guidance related to accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities, which requires us to designate our investments as trading or available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and recorded net of deferred taxes directly to Accumulated other comprehensive income within Stockholders equity. We record an investment impairment charge for an investment with a gross unrealized holding loss resulting from a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investments current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our financial position. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where we are the limited partner) in which we have significant influence but do not control. We classify these investments as unconsolidated affiliates. Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of our investment and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate. The cost method of accounting is used for these investments when we have a de minimis ownership percentage and do not have significant influence. Our cost method investments are held at the lower of cost or market. Accounting for income taxes We account for income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for potential tax exposures based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be required. If we ultimately determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary, then we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine that the liability is no longer necessary. We also recognize tax benefits to the extent that it is more likely than not that our positions will be sustained if challenged by the taxing authorities. To the extent we prevail in matters for which liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given period may be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require cash payments and may result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. We report interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions within income tax expense. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results (in millions). Additional information regarding our segments is included below under the caption, Year to Year Business Segment Comparisons. Change Year Ended December 31, 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 1,474.4 $ 1,405.0 $ 1,445.5 $ 69.4 4.9 % $ (40.5 ) (2.8 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 82.3 69.0 59.3 13.3 19.3 % 9.7 16.4 % Total revenues 1,556.7 1,474.0 1,504.8 82.7 5.6 % (30.8 ) (2.0 )% Costs and expenses 1,213.4 1,150.2 1,149.1 63.2 5.5 % 1.1 0.1 % Depreciation and amortization 96.0 91.1 93.0 4.9 5.4 % (1.9 ) (2.0 )% Operating income 247.3 232.7 262.7 14.6 6.3 % (30.0 ) (11.4 )% Interest expense (23.5 ) (23.8 ) (26.3 ) (0.3 ) (1.3 )% (2.5 ) (9.5 )% Gain on sale of business 5.5 100.5 5.5 (100.0 )% (100.5 ) 100.0 % Other income, net 22.7 204.5 373.1 (181.8 ) (88.9 )% (168.6 ) (45.2 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 27.2 45.4 34.7 (18.2 ) (40.1 )% 10.7 30.8 % Income from continuing operations before income taxes and non-controlling interest 279.2 458.8 744.7 (179.6 ) (39.1 )% (285.9 ) (38.4 )% Income taxes 101.1 149.2 183.9 (48.1 ) (32.2 )% (34.7 ) (18.9 )% Net income from continuing operations before non-controlling interest 178.1 309.6 560.8 (131.5 ) (42.5 )% (251.2 ) (44.8 )% Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 248.3 48.5 32.5 199.8 412.0 % 16.0 49.2 % Net income 426.4 358.1 593.3 68.3 19.1 % (235.2 ) (39.6 )% Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest 0.9 0.1 0.8 800.0 % 0.1 100.0 % Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. $ 427.3 $ 358.2 $ 593.3 $ 69.1 19.3 % $ (235.1 ) (39.6 )% Revenues Consolidated total revenues (including out-of-pocket (OOP) reimbursements) increased $82.7 million or 5.6% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to December 31, 2015 and decreased $30.8 million or 2.0% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 . Consolidated operating revenues increased $69.4 million or 4.9% in 2016 as compared to 2015 and decreased $40.5 million or 2.8% in 2015 as compared to 2014 . Consolidated OOP reimbursements increased $13.3 million or 19.3% in 2016 as compared to 2015 and increased $9.7 million or 16.4% in 2015 as compared to 2014 . The increases in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2016 and 2015 are primarily attributable to increased client volumes in the Financial Services segment. Costs and expenses Consolidated costs and expenses (including OOP reimbursements) increased $63.2 million or 5.5% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to December 31, 2015 and increased $1.1 million or 0.1% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $82.3 million , $69.0 million and $59.3 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses increased $49.9 million in 2016 as compared to 2015 and decreased $8.6 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 . 27 Table of Contents As a result of changes in our business environment, from time to time we will restructure one or more of our businesses to enhance operational efficiency. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we incurred $10.4 million of employee and lease termination costs as a result of a restructuring initiative within the Financial Services segment. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we incurred $3.4 million of pretax charges related to employee termination costs as a result of a restructuring initiative within the Healthcare Services segment which involved the closure of an operating location at the end of the existing lease term in mid-2016. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred $8.5 million of pretax charges related to employee and lease termination costs related to a restructuring initiative within our Financial Services segment. Depreciation and amortization Consolidated depreciation and amortization increased $4.9 million or 5.4% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to December 31, 2015 and decreased $1.9 million or 2.0% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 . Operating income Consolidated operating income increased $14.6 million or 6.3% to $247.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 and decreased $30.0 million or 11.4% to $232.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . Interest expense Interest expense was $23.5 million , $23.8 million and $26.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Interest expense decreased 1.3% during 2016 as compared to 2015 and 9.5% during 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily from lower weighted average debt balances outstanding. Gain on sale of business On November 1, 2016, we sold DST Billing Solutions Limited (Billing Solutions) for cash consideration of approximately $6.1 million, subject to customary working capital post-closing adjustments. Operating revenue and income generated for the Billing Solutions business sold was approximately $4.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2016. We recorded a pretax gain of $5.5 million on the sale of the business during 2016. On November 30, 2014, we sold Global Solutions for cash consideration of $95.0 million , subject to customary working capital post-closing adjustments. Of the $95.0 million in proceeds received, $9.5 million was restricted for a period of eighteen months from the transaction, for purposes of payment of potential obligations under the terms and conditions of the sale agreement. The $9.5 million of restricted proceeds held in escrow was received by DST during 2016. During 2015, we received cash proceeds of $7.9 million in settlement of the working capital post-closing adjustment. We recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale of the business during 2014. Our pretax gain exceeded our sale proceeds primarily from the reclassification of cumulative translation adjustments due to the substantial liquidation of certain foreign entities, partially offset by transaction costs. The carrying value of the entities sold was minimal. Operating revenue generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold was approximately $61.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Operating income generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold was approximately $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Other income, net The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities $ 2.3 $ 168.4 $ 181.4 Net gains on private equity funds and other investments 16.5 35.7 27.8 Dividend income 5.8 8.3 11.4 Private company investment dividend 33.2 Gain on sale of private company investment 103.6 Gain on contract to repurchase shares of DST Common Stock 18.1 Miscellaneous items (1.9 ) (7.9 ) (2.4 ) Other income, net $ 22.7 $ 204.5 $ 373.1 28 Table of Contents Included in the net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities during 2015 and 2014 were gains of $157.3 million and $169.3 million , respectively, from the sale of approximately 2.3 million and 2.6 million shares of State Street during 2015 and 2014 , respectively. There were no sales of State Street shares during 2016 . We recorded a net gain on private equity funds and other investments of $16.5 million , $35.7 million and $27.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, primarily due to distributions received from certain of our private equity fund investments resulting in realized gains. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments and may require an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our net income. In 2014 , we received cash dividends of $33.2 million from a cost method investment in a privately-held company. Following receipt of the dividend, we sold our remaining interest in the privately-held company, resulting in pre-tax cash proceeds and a related gain of $103.6 million . We repurchased $200.0 million of our common stock from a group of stockholders including George L. Argyros, Julia A. Argyros, and certain of their affiliates (collectively, the Argyros Group or Argyros) during 2014. The price paid per share was determined in connection with the secondary offering of Argyros DST common stock in May 2014. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. We receive dividend income from certain investments held, of which State Street is the most significant. State Streets quarterly dividend per common share was $0.38 , $0.34 and $0.30 per share during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Dividends received from State Street common stock were $3.1 million , $3.2 million and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 International Financial Data Services U.K. $ 10.0 $ 22.5 $ 12.6 International Financial Data Services L.P. 2.2 7.4 6.5 Boston Financial Data Services, Inc. 8.3 5.3 5.1 Other unconsolidated affiliates 6.7 10.2 10.5 Total $ 27.2 $ 45.4 $ 34.7 Additional condensed financial information of our significant operating unconsolidated affiliates, BFDS, IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P., is presented below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Total revenues $ 1,097.7 $ 1,081.2 $ 1,111.0 Costs and expenses 994.6 947.8 1,009.7 Depreciation and amortization 41.0 38.9 39.1 Operating income 62.1 94.5 62.2 Non-operating income (loss) (2.8 ) 2.8 3.4 Income before income taxes 59.3 97.3 65.6 Income taxes 18.3 27.0 17.0 Net income $ 41.0 $ 70.3 $ 48.6 Equity in earnings of IFDS decreased $17.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to 2015 , primarily attributable to lower revenues recognized related to the ongoing client conversion activities and higher operating costs as IFDS expands its infrastructure to address increasing regulatory, compliance and security needs. 29 Table of Contents The multi-year implementation efforts for the previously announced two wealth management clients continue to progress, however the scope and timing continues to be adjusted as client requirements evolve. In 2014, IFDS began capitalizing a significant portion of the software development costs being incurred to develop the wealth management platform for the U.K. market resulting in approximately 146.2 million ( 73.1 million at DSTs 50% ownership) of capitalized costs through December 31, 2016 . These costs will continue to be incurred as the platform is completed. Equity in earnings of IFDS increased $10.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to 2014 , primarily attributable to higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing client conversion activities of the wealth management platform clients in the U.K., organic growth at existing customers and new client processing revenues. Partially offsetting the increased revenues are higher operating costs as IFDS expands its infrastructure to prepare for the addition of new clients and associated service offerings as well as negative foreign currency impacts in both the U.K. and Canada. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced on their shareowner accounting platforms were 22.6 million at December 31, 2016 , an increase of 0.5 million accounts or 2.3% as compared to December 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to organic growth and new client conversions. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 22.1 million at December 31, 2015 , a decrease of 1.7 million accounts or 7.1% as compared to December 31, 2014 . The decline in accounts from 2014 to 2015 was driven by the transition of one of IFDS clients off of the FAST platform and onto the wealth management platform in 2015. Equity in earnings of BFDS increased $3.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 . The increase was primarily attributable to higher ancillary and non-operating revenues as well as a reduction in operating costs. Equity in earnings of BFDS increased $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . The increase was primarily attributable to a reduction in operating costs. Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $6.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease of $3.5 million as compared to 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $3.6 million gain resulting from the sale of real estate by an unconsolidated affiliate during 2015. Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $10.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 , an decrease of $0.3 million as compared to 2014 . The decrease was primarily due to a $5.7 million gain recognized upon the sale of an unconsolidated affiliate during 2014, partially offset by a $3.6 million gain resulting from the sale of real estate by an unconsolidated affiliate during 2015. Income taxes Our effective tax rate was 36.2% , 32.5% and 24.7% for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The effective tax rates in each of the three years ended December 31, 2016 were affected by tax benefits relating to certain international operations and recognition of state tax benefits associated with income apportionment rules. Our income tax rate for 2016 was higher than the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% primarily attributable to state income taxes, transaction related taxes, and a change in the proportional mix of domestic and international income, partially offset by federal income tax credits for foreign income taxes and research and development costs. Our effective income tax rate for 2015 was favorably impacted by a $11.9 million benefit from the completion of the IRS examination of previously filed federal income tax refund claims for Domestic Manufacturing Deductions, research and experimentation credits and capital losses for the period 2010 as well as other remeasurements during the period. Our effective income tax rate for 2014 was favorably impacted by the reversal of $30.8 million of uncertain tax position liabilities, net of additions, primarily related to statute expirations. Excluding the effect of discrete period items, we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 37% in 2017 . The 2017 tax rate can be affected as a result of variances among the estimates and amounts of 2017 sources of taxable income (e.g., domestic consolidated, joint venture and/or international), the realization of tax credits, adjustments which may arise from the resolution of tax matters under review and our assessment of our liability for uncertain tax positions. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax Income from discontinued operations, net of tax increased $199.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 and increased $16.0 million or 49.2% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . The increase is primarily attributable to the $234.7 million gain, net of tax, on the sale of our North American Customer Communications business partially offset by the goodwill and asset impairments in our U.K. Customer Communications business. In February 2017, we updated our impairment analysis utilizing new information received regarding our U.K. Customer Communications business which indicated the carrying value exceeded the fair value of the business. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $17.0 million , which is included as a component of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2016. The impairment resulted in the write-down of goodwill and long-lived assets based on the estimated fair 30 Table of Contents value of the business. No tax benefit was recognized for this impairment charge. These amounts reflect managements preliminary estimates and subsequent negotiations and the closing on any sale of this business could result in further adjustments to this impairment. YEAR TO YEAR BUSINESS SEGMENT COMPARISONS FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Financial Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 1,090.2 $ 1,063.8 $ 1,088.8 $ 26.4 2.5 % $ (25.0 ) (2.3 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 73.9 61.7 52.6 12.2 19.8 % 9.1 17.3 % Total revenues 1,164.1 1,125.5 1,141.4 38.6 3.4 % (15.9 ) (1.4 )% Costs and expenses 908.3 869.8 867.9 38.5 4.4 % 1.9 0.2 % Depreciation and amortization 79.7 71.6 72.2 8.1 11.3 % (0.6 ) (0.8 )% Operating income $ 176.1 $ 184.1 $ 201.3 $ (8.0 ) (4.3 )% $ (17.2 ) (8.5 )% Operating margin 16.2 % 17.3 % 18.5 % 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Financial Services segments statistical metrics (in millions, except as noted): December 31, 2016 2015 2014 U.S. shareowner accounts processed: Registered accounts - non tax-advantaged 25.3 27.0 29.6 IRA mutual fund accounts 21.1 21.8 22.3 Other retirement accounts 8.0 8.2 8.1 Section 529 and Educational IRAs 7.5 8.4 8.8 Registered accounts - tax-advantaged 36.6 38.4 39.2 Total registered accounts 61.9 65.4 68.8 Subaccounts 42.1 31.3 28.6 Total U.S. shareowner accounts 104.0 96.7 97.4 International shareowner accounts processed: IFDS U.K. 8.9 8.8 11.3 IFDS L.P. (Canada) 13.7 13.3 12.5 Total international shareowner accounts 22.6 22.1 23.8 Defined contribution participant accounts 6.8 7.0 7.2 ALPS (in billions of U.S. dollars) : Assets Under Management $ 17.2 $ 14.7 $ 15.3 Assets Under Administration $ 179.1 $ 140.4 $ 176.9 Automatic Work Distributor workstations (in thousands) 212.7 211.4 212.5 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Changes in registered accounts: Beginning balance 65.4 68.8 71.2 New client conversions 0.1 Subaccounting conversions to DST platforms (0.9 ) (1.8 ) (0.6 ) Subaccounting conversions to non-DST platforms (0.5 ) (1.1 ) (1.9 ) Conversions to non-DST platforms (0.7 ) (0.3 ) (1.0 ) Organic growth (decline) (1.5 ) (0.2 ) 1.1 Ending balance 61.9 65.4 68.8 Changes in subaccounts: Beginning balance 31.3 28.6 25.7 New client conversions 10.7 Conversions from non-DST registered platforms 1.1 0.7 Conversions from DSTs registered accounts 0.9 1.8 0.6 Organic growth (decline) (0.8 ) (0.2 ) 1.6 Ending balance 42.1 31.3 28.6 Changes in defined contribution participant accounts: Beginning balance 7.0 7.2 6.9 New client conversions 0.1 0.3 Organic decline (0.2 ) (0.3 ) Ending balance 6.8 7.0 7.2 32 Table of Contents Comparison of 2016 versus 2015 results Operating revenues Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,090.2 million reflect an increase of $26.4 million or 2.5% in 2016 as compared to 2015 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven from businesses acquired during 2015 and 2016, which contributed $31.8 million of incremental operating revenues as well as increased professional services revenues associated with our international wealth management platform business. During 2016, we also completed the conversion of approximately 10.0 million subaccounts associated with the previously announced new client, which resulted in incremental revenues. These increases were partly offset by a decline in mutual fund registered shareowner account processing revenue due to lower registered accounts, primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions, lower revenue due to extending certain long-term contracts with lower pricing, and approximately $6.1 million of negative foreign currency movements during 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . Additionally, software license revenues were $31.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease of $2.3 million as compared to 2015 . Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $908.3 million , an increase of $38.5 million as compared to 2015 . Costs and expenses in the Financial Services segment are primarily comprised of compensation and benefit costs, but also include technology related expenditures and reimbursable operating expenses. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $73.9 million in 2016 , an increase of $12.2 million as compared to 2015 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, Financial Services costs and expenses increased $26.3 million or 3.3% for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2016 was primarily from acquisitions completed during 2015 and 2016, which included approximately $33.7 million of incremental expenses. Also, contributing to the increase in costs and expenses were the restructuring activities, which resulted in $10.4 million of employee and lease termination costs during the year ended December 31, 2016 to enhance operational efficiency within the Financial Services segment, increased costs incurred to enhance the network infrastructure utilized across all of our operating business and incremental costs to service new and existing clients. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we also recognized a $6.0 million software impairment. These costs and expenses were partially offset by the reversal of approximately $6.5 million of accrued performance-related contingent consideration, a $9.6 million reduction of stock compensation expense as certain performance-based stock units (PSU) are no longer expected to vest, savings realized from cost containment initiatives and $7.2 million of foreign currency movements. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $79.7 million , an increase of $8.1 million or 11.3% as compared to 2015 . The increase in 2016 was primarily attributable to incremental amortization associated with acquired intangibles from the acquisitions completed in 2015 and 2016 as well as increased depreciation from capitalized costs incurred to enhance our network infrastructure and increase security and regulatory compliance. The increase in 2016 was also attributable to the acceleration of depreciation on certain capitalized software during 2016. Operating income Financial Services segment operating income for 2016 was $176.1 million , a decrease of $8.0 million or 4.3% as compared to 2015 . The decrease in Financial Services operating income was primarily due to restructuring costs incurred during 2016, a software impairment charge, and increased costs incurred to enhance our network infrastructure, maintain security and regulatory compliance. These decreases were partially offset by the reversal of accrued performance-related contingent consideration, higher operating revenues and cost containment efforts during 2016, as well as a reduction of stock compensation expense as certain PSUs are no longer expected to vest. The impacts on operating income from foreign currency movements were not significant. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,063.8 million decreased $25.0 million or 2.3% in 2015 as compared to 2014 . The decrease in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 was primarily due to the sale of Global Solutions in November of 2014 and foreign currency movements. Global Solutions contributed $61.4 million of operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 and foreign currency movements reduced operating revenue by approximately $16.2 million during 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . Excluding Global Solutions 2014 results and the foreign currency impacts, Financial Services operating revenues increased $52.6 million or 5.1% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 , primarily driven from year-over-year growth across a number of our service offerings. Specifically, operating revenues increased as a result of increased professional services revenue associated with our wealth management platform business as well as organic and new client growth within our Retirement and Brokerage Solutions businesses. Additionally, the businesses acquired during 2015 contributed $10.4 million of operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increases were partially offset by decreased revenue from our U.S. registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions. Additionally, software license revenues (excluding Global Solutions) were $33.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , a decrease of $0.4 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $869.8 million , an increase of $1.9 million as compared to 2014 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $61.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , an increase of $9.1 million as compared to 2014 . Additionally, Global Solutions incurred $49.3 million of costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 and foreign currency movements reduced costs and expenses by $16.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, the Global Solutions 2014 results and foreign currency impacts, Financial Services costs and expenses increased $25.7 million or 3.4% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2015 was primarily from acquisitions completed during 2015, which included approximately $4.7 million of incremental expenses related to performance-related contingent consideration. The increase in costs and expenses was also attributable to increased security, regulatory compliance and network infrastructure costs, as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we expand our service offerings and expand our wealth management platform in the U.K. These costs and expenses were partially offset by lower transaction and advisory costs of $1.2 million in 2015 as compared to $5.6 million of advisory and transaction costs incurred during 2014 in connection with the Argyros transaction and $13.0 million of costs incurred in 2014 related to restructuring activities. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $71.6 million , a decrease of $0.6 million or 0.8% as compared to 2014 . The decrease in 2015 was primarily attributable to the sale of Global Solutions in 2014, partially offset by increased amortization costs associated with acquired intangibles from the acquisitions completed during 2015. Operating income Financial Services segment operating income for 2015 was $184.1 million , a decrease of $17.2 million or 8.5% as compared to 2014 . Global Solutions contributed income from operations of $6.9 million in 2014. Excluding Global Solutions, operating income decreased $10.3 million or 5.3% . The decrease in Financial Services operating income was primarily from higher operating expenses due to investments in our systems and infrastructure and the development of new business initiatives. Operating income was also adversely impacted by approximately $6.2 million of incremental expense resulting from amortization of acquired intangibles and expense for performance-related contingent consideration associated with our 2015 acquisitions. These decreases were partially offset by lower costs incurred as a result of restructuring activities undertaken in 2014. 34 Table of Contents HEALTHCARE SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Healthcare Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 2016 2015 2014 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 426.2 $ 376.4 $ 382.1 $ 49.8 13.2 % $ (5.7 ) (1.5 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 8.5 8.2 6.9 0.3 3.7 % 1.3 18.8 % Total revenues 434.7 384.6 389.0 50.1 13.0 % (4.4 ) (1.1 )% Costs and expenses 345.1 321.3 308.5 23.8 7.4 % 12.8 4.1 % Depreciation and amortization 15.6 18.6 19.5 (3.0 ) (16.1 )% (0.9 ) (4.6 )% Operating income $ 74.0 $ 44.7 $ 61.0 $ 29.3 65.5 % $ (16.3 ) (26.7 )% Operating margin 17.4 % 11.9 % 16.0 % The following tables summarize the Healthcare Services segments statistical metrics (in millions): December 31, 2016 2015 2014 DST Health Solutions covered lives 22.8 26.0 24.2 Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Argus pharmacy paid claims 507.0 494.4 486.6 Comparison of 2016 versus 2015 results Operating revenues Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $426.2 million increased $49.8 million or 13.2% in 2016 compared to 2015 . The increase in operating revenue during the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily from new medical claims processing clients implemented during 2016, organic growth and expansion of high-value services we are offering to existing clients in both the medical and pharmacy businesses. Operating revenues included approximately $8.0 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease of $1.1 million as compared to 2015 . Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $345.1 million , an increase of $23.8 million as compared to 2015 . Costs and expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits costs but also include technology-related expenditures. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $8.5 million in 2016 , an increase of $0.3 million as compared to 2015 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $336.6 million for 2016 , an increase of $23.5 million as compared to 2015 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2016 was primarily attributable to increased staffing costs incurred to support the higher medical transaction volumes due to the growth in BPO services. These costs and expenses were partially offset by restructuring costs that occurred during 2015 that did not recur during 2016 and a $2.4 million reduction of stock compensation expense as certain PSUs are no longer expected to vest. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $15.6 million , a decrease of $3.0 million or 16.1% as compared to 2015 . Operating income Healthcare Services segment operating income for 2016 was $74.0 million , an increase of $29.3 million or 65.5% as compared to 2015 . The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to higher revenues from organic growth and new medical claims processing clients implemented in 2016, resulting in enhanced economies of scale as clients were converted as well as a 35 Table of Contents reduction of stock compensation expense as certain PSUs are no longer expected to vest. These increases were partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to support the higher medical transaction volumes due to the growth in BPO services. Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $376.4 million decreased $5.7 million or 1.5% in 2015 as compared to 2014 . The decrease in operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily from lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from a partial client deconversion on January 1, 2015. This decrease was largely offset by increased pharmacy and medical claims transaction volumes due to organic growth and higher BPO revenues. Operating revenues included approximately $9.1 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 , an increase of $0.5 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $321.3 million , an increase of $12.8 million as compared to 2014 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $8.2 million in 2015 , an increase of $1.3 million as compared to 2014 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $313.1 million for 2015 , an increase of $11.5 million as compared to 2014 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2015 was primarily from a $3.4 million restructuring charge and increased staffing costs to support the expansion of our clinical, network and analytic capabilities in order to more effectively compete in the broader competitive PBM market. Staffing costs also increased in order to service the higher medical transaction volumes due to growth in BPO services which generally require more support. Additionally, costs increased in 2015 in order to implement several new clients expected to transition onto our medical claims platform in 2016. Costs were also higher due to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million during 2014. The increased costs and expenses were partially offset by an incremental $5.7 million liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors involving certain pharmacy claim transactions which did not recur in 2015. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $18.6 million , a decrease of $0.9 million or 4.6% as compared to 2014 . Operating income Healthcare Services segment operating income for 2015 was $44.7 million , a decrease of $16.3 million or 26.7% as compared to 2014 . The decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to decreased revenues from lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from a partial client deconversion on January 1, 2015. Additionally, the decrease in operating income was due to a restructuring charge and increased staffing costs incurred to expand our capabilities and service offerings as well as service growth in our BPO services that generally require a higher level of support. Costs also increased as a result of the implementation efforts for several new clients which transitioned onto our medical claims platform in 2016. The increase in costs were also due to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million during 2014. The increased costs and expenses were offset by an incremental $6.4 million liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors involving certain pharmacy claim transactions which did not recur in 2015. INVESTMENTS AND OTHER SEGMENT Investments and Other segment had an operating loss of $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , and operating income of $3.9 million and $0.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Operating income decreased $6.7 million during 2016 as compared to 2015 , primarily from the $3.7 million gain on sale of real estate during the year ended December 31, 2015 that did not recur in 2016 , lower rental income from third-party real estate leases and incremental expense associated with the charitable contributions of marketable securities to a donor-advised fund during 2016. These were partially offset by lower occupancy costs during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. Operating income increased $3.5 million during 2015 as compared to 2014 , primarily from the $3.7 million gain on sale of real estate, partially offset by lower operating revenues. 36 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Companys Assessment of Short-term and Long-term Liquidity We believe that our existing cash balances and other current assets, together with cash provided by operating activities and, as necessary, our revolving credit facilities, are sufficient to meet our operating and debt service requirements and other current liabilities for at least the next 12 months. Further, we believe that our longer term liquidity and capital requirements will also be met through cash provided by operating activities, bank credit facilities and other investments. At December 31, 2016 , total cash and cash equivalents were $195.5 million , of which $152.3 million was held outside of the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less foreign tax credits. We have accrued for U.S. federal and state tax liabilities on the earnings of our international subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. The repatriation of these earnings could result in additional U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. At December 31, 2016 , we had approximately $794.8 million of availability under our domestic revolving credit facilities. There are no credit facilities with outstanding amounts as of December 31, 2016 that are scheduled to mature in 2017, except for $105.0 million of Series B Senior Notes that are scheduled to mature in August 2017. Sources and Uses of Cash We had $195.5 million , $79.5 million and $139.6 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Our primary source of liquidity has historically been cash provided by operations. In addition, we have used proceeds from the sale of investments to fund other investing and financing activities. Principal uses of cash are operations, reinvestment in our proprietary technologies, capital expenditures, investment purchases, seed money investments, business acquisitions, payments on debt, stock repurchases and dividend payments. Information on our consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is presented in the Statement of Cash Flows, categorized by operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. The sale of our North American Customer Communications business on July 1, 2016 resulted in cash consideration of approximately $341.5 million , net of tax. The after-tax proceeds from the sale are being used in accordance with the Companys capital plan, including investments in the business, share repurchases, strategic acquisitions, debt repayments and other corporate purposes. Operating Activities Cash flows provided from continuing operating activities were $162.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 . Operating cash flows from continuing operating activities during 2016 resulted principally from income from continuing operations of $178.1 million , adjusted for non-cash or non-operating items of $90.4 million , and a use of cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities of $105.8 million . Significant changes in operating assets and liabilities include a $26.9 million use of cash related to accrued compensation and benefits, a $16.6 million source of cash resulting from accounts payable and accrued liabilities, a $16.0 million use of cash related to accounts receivable and a $67.9 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. Cash flows provided from continuing operating activities were $135.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Operating cash flows from continuing operations during 2015 resulted principally from income from continuing operations of $309.6 million , adjusted for non-cash or non-operating items of $110.3 million , and a use of cash due to changes in operating assets and liabilities of $63.6 million . Significant changes in operating assets and liabilities include a $10.6 million use of cash related to accounts receivable, and a $31.6 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. Cash flows provided from continuing operating activities were $242.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Operating cash flows from continuing operating activities during 2014 resulted principally from income from continuing operations of $560.8 million . The most significant operating assets and liabilities change during 2014 was a $23.2 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. We have had significant proceeds from the sale of investments which have been included within investing activities on the Statement of Cash Flows. The income taxes paid on the gains from these investment sales are required to be treated as an operating cash outflow. Income tax expense resulting from these investment sales will reduce operating cash flows in the period that taxes are paid. Income taxes paid related to gains on the sale of investments and other non-operating assets during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 were $1.4 million , $87.1 million and $70.4 million , respectively. 37 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash flows used in continuing investing activities were $117.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Sources of our cash inflows were net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $59.5 million , offset by cash used to acquire KRFS of $93.5 million , capital expenditures of $60.4 million , as well as approximately $28.0 million of cash loaned to IFDS U.K. during 2016. Cash flows used in continuing investing activities during 2015 of $102.4 million were primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $192.2 million , which includes $176.1 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. These sources of cash were offset by $117.4 million of cash used to acquire kasina LLC, Red Rocks Capital LLC and Wealth Management Systems Inc. during 2015 and $88.9 million used to purchase capital assets, as well as higher restricted cash balances for client fund obligations. Cash flows provided from continuing investing activities were $335.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $343.0 million , which includes $190.3 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in 2014 cash flows from investing activities increased due to proceeds received from sale of Global Solutions of $77.4 million and proceeds from sale of non-operating real estate of $32.2 million . These cash inflows were partially offset by capital expenditures of $82.6 million . Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes capital expenditures by segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Financial Services segment $ 55.0 $ 82.3 $ 72.2 Healthcare Services segment 5.4 6.1 10.1 Investments and Other segment 0.5 0.3 $ 60.4 $ 88.9 $ 82.6 During 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we capitalized software development costs of $21.5 million , $23.3 million and $28.8 million , respectively, which are included within the capital expenditures listed above. Capital expenditures using debt are treated as non-cash transactions and are not included in the annual capital expenditure amounts above. We anticipate our 2017 capital expenditures for continuing operations to total approximately $70.0 million . Future capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily by cash flows from operating activities or through borrowings on our revolving credit facilities. Financing Activities Cash flows used in continuing financing activities totaled $374.8 million , $278.7 million and $526.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases We received cash proceeds of $5.3 million , $11.8 million and $13.0 million from the issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The value of shares received in exchange for satisfaction of the exercise price and for tax-withholding obligations arising from the exercise of options to purchase our stock or from the vesting of restricted shares are included in Common stock repurchased in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. On June 13, 2016, our Board of Directors authorized a new $300.0 million share repurchase plan, which allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. The plan does not have an expiration date. We repurchased 2.7 million shares of our common stock for $300.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2016 . Subsequently, during January and February 2017, we repurchased an additional 0.7 million shares of our common stock for $75.0 million resulting in approximately $75.0 million remaining under our existing share repurchase plan authorized in 2016 . Under previous share repurchase plans, we expended $400.0 million for approximately 3.6 million shares and $200.0 million for approximately 2.2 million shares during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. As of March 23, 2014, Argyros beneficially owned 9.2 million shares or approximately 22% of DST common shares. During March 2014, we entered into an agreement under which we agreed to a two-step process to assist Argyros with the disposition of a substantial portion of its common stock ownership in DST. To implement Argyros disposition, we facilitated the May 2014 registered, secondary common stock offering of $450.0 million (before any overallotment option) of DST common stock beneficially owned by Argyros. Concurrent with the closing of the secondary offering and based upon a price determined in the 38 Table of Contents secondary offering, DST repurchased, and simultaneously retired, 2.4 million shares of our common stock from Argyros for $200.0 million. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. Dividends We paid cash dividends of $1.32 per common share in 2016 and $1.20 per common share in both 2015 and 2014 . The total cash paid for dividends in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 was $43.4 million , $43.1 million and $47.6 million , respectively. On January 25, 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share on our common stock, payable on March 10, 2017 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 24, 2017 . Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Client Funds Obligations Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. We had $564.6 million , $533.4 million and $ 399.6 million of client funds obligations at December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Debt Activity During 2016 , we had the following primary sources of debt financing: our syndicated revolving credit facility; accounts receivable securitization program; and privately placed senior notes (the Senior Notes). We had $508.2 million , $562.1 million and $552.9 million of debt outstanding at December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, a decrease of $53.9 million during 2016 and an increase of $9.2 million during 2015 . The decrease in debt outstanding during 2016 was primarily resulting from the utilization of the proceeds from the sale of our North American Customer Communications business to pay down outstanding balances, partially offset by borrowings to fund the KRFS business acquisition, share repurchases and working capital uses. The increase in debt outstanding during 2015 was primarily from higher borrowings on the syndicated revolving credit facility, partially offset by the repayment of the Series A Senior Notes and the pay down of the accounts receivable securitization line. In 2015 , we renewed our accounts receivable securitization program for a three year term through May 2018. Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary indebtedness, asset dispositions and require certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios to be maintained. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. A default under certain of our borrowings could trigger defaults under certain of our other debt obligations, which in turn could result in their maturities being accelerated. Our debt arrangements are further described in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 10 , Debt. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments (in millions): Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 508.5 $ 208.5 $ 140.0 $ 160.0 $ Operating lease obligations 80.5 18.8 30.3 19.1 12.3 Software license agreements 63.5 50.1 11.8 1.6 Other 30.7 13.8 15.8 0.9 0.2 $ 683.2 $ 291.2 $ 197.9 $ 181.6 $ 12.5 Interest obligations on our outstanding debt are not included in the table above. The syndicated revolving credit facility contains grid schedules that adjust borrowing costs up or down based upon our consolidated leverage ratio. The grid schedules may result in fluctuations in borrowing costs ranging from 1.00% to 1.70% over Eurodollar and 0.00% to 0.70% over base rate , as defined. The Senior Notes have fixed interest rates and are comprised of $105.0 million of 4.86% Series B Senior Notes, $65.0 million of 5.06% Series C Senior Notes and $160.0 million of 5.42% Series D Senior Notes. In addition to the financial instruments listed above, the program fees incurred on proceeds from the sale of receivables under our accounts receivable securitization program are determined based on variable interest rates associated with LIBOR. 39 Table of Contents We have liabilities for income tax uncertainties of $69.8 million at December 31, 2016 . These obligations are classified as non-current on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as resolution of these matters is expected to take more than a year; however, the ultimate timing of resolution is uncertain. Other Commercial Commitments In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions of services and products and other business assets, we have agreed to indemnify certain parties with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made by third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. At December 31, 2016 , except for certain immaterial items, there were no liabilities for guarantees or indemnifications as it is not possible to determine either the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements or the timing of any such payments due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity, or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. We believe that our guarantee arrangements will not have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, capital expenditures, capital resources, liquidity or results of operations. These arrangements are described above and in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16 , Commitments and Contingencies. 40 Table of Contents