Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"), increased tariff costs have increased our cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal year 2019. In addition, the legal and regulatory system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Our operations and transactions with customers in China could continue to be adversely affected by increased tariffs, and could be otherwise adversely affected by other changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, or interpretation of Chinese law. Adverse conditions in the industries upon which we are dependent, including the automotive industry, have had, and may in the future have, adverse effects on our business. We are dependent on market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. Periodic downturns in our customers industries could significantly reduce 11 Table of Contents demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Much of our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Sales in our automotive end markets accounted for approximately 59% of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2019 . As discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included elsewhere in this Report, demand in the automotive end market we serve has declined 5.6% from the prior year. We are partially offsetting this market decline with content growth, but there can be no assurance that this will continue. Continued declines in demand such as discussed above, and other adverse developments like those we have seen in past years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to customer bankruptcies and increased demands on us for lower prices, could have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers. Continued pricing and other pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Many of our customers, including automotive manufacturers and other industrial and commercial original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), demand annual price reductions. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, these price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with price increases. Further, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could limit sales, cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly in the automotive industry, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions, many of which are increasing warranty requirements. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and recall claims that may be brought against us. We have been, and will continue to be, exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranty when the product supplied did not perform as represented. In addition, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material. We are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue. Substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications before our competitors or in time to satisfy customer demands. Increasing costs for, or limitations on the supply of or access to, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use a broad range of manufactured components, subassemblies, and raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including those containing certain commodities, resins, and rare earth metals, which may experience significant volatility in their price and availability. We have entered into hedge arrangements for certain metals used in our products in an attempt to minimize commodity pricing volatility and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with U.S. generally 12 Table of Contents accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. Refer to Note 19, "Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (our "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to accounting for hedges of commodity prices, and Item 7A, "