Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors that could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United Kingdom (the "U.K."), China, Mexico, the U.S., and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, changes in tax rates and tax laws, our jurisdictional mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effects on our revenues and costs of complying with transfer pricing requirements under differing laws of various countries, consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments, the generation of sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, and the taxation of subsidiary income in the jurisdiction of its parent company regardless of whether or not distributed. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for (or benefit from) income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Refer to Note 7: Income Taxes of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our accounting for income taxes. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our tax rate will be in any period because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as changes in U.S. and other tax laws, treaties, and regulations, in particular related to proposed tax laws by the U.S. or other governments, which could increase our tax liabilities. Our actual global tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. We continually monitor all global regulatory developments and consider alternatives to limit their detrimental impacts. However, not all unfavorable developments can be moderated, and we may consequently experience adverse effects on our effective tax rate and cash flows. For example, the European Commission (the "EC") has been conducting investigations of state aid and have focused on whether EU sovereign country laws or rulings provide favorable treatment to taxpayers conflicting with its interpretation of EU law. EC findings may have retroactive effect and can cause increases in tax liabilities where we considered ourselves in full compliance with local legislation. Furthermore, on December 15, 2022, the EU Member States formally adopted the EU's Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum jurisdictional effective tax rate of 15%. The legislation is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2024. We continue to evaluate the potential impact on future periods due to the Pillar Two framework, as such changes could result in complexity and uncertainty in countries where we do business and could increase our effective tax rate. We could be subject to future audits conducted by both foreign and domestic tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits, and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits, and other matters could cause our global tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase, and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity that is separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to 26 Table of Contents us. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "U.S. FCPA"), the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA, the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license for export. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, loss of export privileges, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to compliance with laws and regulations controlling the import and export of goods, services, software, and technical data. Certain of our products are subject to export regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate (Controlled Items). The export of many such Controlled Items requires a license from the applicable government agency. Licensing decisions are made based on type of product, its destination, end use, end user, the parties involved in the transaction, national security, and foreign policy. As a result, export license approvals are not guaranteed. We have a trade compliance team and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with import and export regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with such regulations could limit our ability to import or export raw material and finished goods. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change may limit or exclude existing or future business opportunities, require us to change technology, or incur expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our trade compliance program. Although we continue to enhance our trade compliance program, we cannot guarantee that any such enhancements will ensure full compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that applicable authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. Changes in existing environmental or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for our products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; GHG emissions; product hazardous material content; and the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. 27 Table of Contents Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. In addition, our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted, or are proposing to enact, laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU RoHS, ELV, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the EU REACH regulation; the German Explosives Act; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights, or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert managements attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We also may be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. 28 Table of Contents U.K. Domicile Risks As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. English law imposes additional restrictions on certain corporate actions. For example, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot, or issue, securities with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. English law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the articles of association, or shareholders at a general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. We currently only have authorization to issue shares under our equity plan excluding preemptive rights until our next annual general meeting. This authorization and exclusion needs to be renewed by our shareholders periodically and we intend to renew the authorization and exclusion at each annual general meeting. English law also requires us to have available "distributable reserves" to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders. Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the U.K. parent company or other actions. While we intend to maintain a sufficient level of distributable reserves, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient earnings in order to maintain the necessary level of distributable reserves to make share repurchases or pay dividends. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of our shareholders. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is not a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. Consequently, any repurchase of our shares is currently considered an "off-market purchase." Our current authorization expires on May 28, 2025, and we intend to renew this authorization periodically. As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be more difficult. Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for a U.S. company. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the U.S. federal securities laws. The English courts will, however, treat any amount payable by us under U.S. judgment as a debt and new proceedings can be commenced in the English courts to enforce this debt against us. The following criteria must be satisfied for the English court to enforce the debt created by the U.S. judgment: (1) the U.S. court having had jurisdiction over the original proceedings according to English conflicts of laws principles and rules of English private international law at the time when proceedings were initiated; (2) the U.S. proceedings not having been brought in breach of a jurisdiction or arbitration clause except with the agreement of the defendant or the defendants subsequent submission to the jurisdiction of the court; (3) the U.S. judgment being final and conclusive on the merits in the sense of being final and unalterable in the court which pronounced it and being for a definite sum of money; (4) the recognition or enforcement, as the case may be, of the U.S. judgment not contravening English public policy in a sufficiently significant way or contravening the Human Rights Act 1998 (or any subordinate legislation made thereunder, to the extent applicable); (5) the U.S. judgment not being for a sum payable in respect of taxes, or other charges of a like nature, or in respect of a penalty or fine, or otherwise based on a U.S. law that an English court considers to be a penal or revenue law; (6) the U.S. judgment not having been arrived at by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damages sustained, and not otherwise being a judgment contrary to section 5 of the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 or is a judgment based on measures designated by the Secretary of State under Section 1 of that Act; (7) the U.S. judgment not having been obtained by fraud or in breach of English principles of natural justice; (8) the U.S. judgment not being a judgment on a matter previously determined by an English court, or another court whose judgment is entitled to recognition (or enforcement as the case may be) in England, in proceedings involving the same parties that conflicts with an earlier judgment of such court; (9) the party seeking enforcement (being a party who is not ordinarily resident in some part of the U.K. or resident in an EU Member State) providing security for costs, if ordered to do so by the English courts; and (10) the English enforcement proceedings being commenced within the relevant limitation period. 29 Table of Contents If an English court gives judgment for the sum payable under a U.S. judgment, the English judgment will be enforceable by methods generally available for this purpose. These methods generally permit the English court discretion to prescribe the manner of enforcement. In addition, in any enforcement proceedings, the judgment debtor may raise any counterclaim that could have been brought if the action had been originally brought in England unless the subject of the counterclaim was in issue and denied in the U.S. proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY Cyber criminals are becoming more sophisticated and effective every day. All companies utilizing technology are subject to threats or attempts of cybersecurity attacks. Maintaining data privacy and cybersecurity to protect our employees, customers, and business is an integral aspect of our operations. Our approach to data privacy and cybersecurity is defined by our commitment to preserving the trust our employees and customers place in us and focuses on driving continuous improvement as the threat landscape evolves. Our Audit Committee and our management are actively involved in the oversight of our risk management program, of which cybersecurity represents an important component. As described in more detail below, we have established policies, standards, processes, and practices for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. We have devoted significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security programs to meet regulatory requirements and customer expectations, and we intend to continue to make significant investments to maintain the security of our data and infrastructure. However, there can be no guarantee that our policies and procedures will be properly followed in every instance or that those policies and procedures will be effective. Although our risk factors identified in Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report provide further detail about the material cybersecurity risks we face, we believe that risks from prior cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, have not materially affected our business to date. We can provide no assurance that there will not be incidents in the future or that they will not materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. Risk Management Strategy We are guided by our Cybersecurity Charter, which includes our philosophy of information security, identifies the motivation for security, describes information security principles and terms, and defines the scope of information security policies and responsibilities for various functions. We continue to improve the maturity of our cybersecurity program, aligning with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Our Director of Cybersecurity leads our information security operations, with a focus on identifying, evaluating, mitigating, and reporting on IT and cybersecurity risks that have the potential to threaten Sensatas enterprise information assets and systems. Our cybersecurity and global IT strategy is regularly aligned with business leaders across Sensata through our IT Excellence Committee meetings, conducted 10 times a year, to ensure cyber, IT, and business priorities are communicated and understood throughout the organization. Our policies, standards, processes, and practices for assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats are integrated into our overall risk management program and are based on frameworks established by the NIST, the International Organization for Standardization, and other applicable industry standards. Our cybersecurity program in particular focuses on the following key areas: Incident Response: We have an Incident Response Plan ("IRP") to address cybersecurity incidents as defined by Item 106 of Regulation S-K. The IRP includes as a core component an Incident Response Team ("IRT") that utilizes guidelines identified in the IRP to identify, assess, and disclose cybersecurity incidents as applicable. The IRT consists of a core team, which includes representation from IT, Legal, and Human Resources, and an extended team, which includes representation from Enterprise Risk Management, Communications, Investor Relations, Internal Audit, Legal, Accounting, and External Reporting. The core team is involved in all incidents that are classified as significant, requiring a response from the IRT, and it involves components of the extended team as applicable. The IRT allows for broad representation of various areas of expertise for use in executing the IRP. The IRT meets monthly to evaluate the effectiveness of our cybersecurity risk management processes and procedures, including the IRP. The IRP is designed to ensure prompt escalation of certain cybersecurity incidents so that decisions regarding public disclosure and reporting of such incidents can be made by management and the Board in a timely manner. 30 Table of Contents Defense and Monitoring: We work to protect our computing environments and products from cybersecurity threats through multi-layered defenses and apply lessons learned from our defense and monitoring efforts to help prevent future attacks. We utilize data analytics to detect anomalies and search for cyber threats. Our Cybersecurity Operations Center provides comprehensive cyber threat detection and response capabilities and maintains a 24x7 monitoring system which complements the technology, process, and threat detection techniques we use to monitor, manage, and mitigate cybersecurity threats. From time to time, we engage third party consultants or other advisors to assist in assessing, identifying, and/or managing cybersecurity threats. We also periodically use our Internal Audit function to conduct additional reviews and assessments. Insider Threats: We maintain an insider threat program designed to identify, assess, and address potential risks from within our Company. Our program evaluates potential risks consistent with industry practices, customer requirements, and applicable law, including privacy and other considerations. Third Party Risk Assessments: We conduct information security assessments before sharing or allowing the hosting of sensitive data in computing environments managed by third parties, and our standard terms and conditions contain contractual provisions requiring certain security protections. Training and Awareness: We have robust cybersecurity training programs with frequent touch points for all employees to empower them to act responsibly and keep cybersecurity top of mind. We use monthly activities to keep employees engaged with cybersecurity, including newsletters, articles on the Sensata intranet, and mock phishing campaigns. We regularly update our comprehensive training program, which covers a wide variety of topics, from protecting work machines and personal information to social innovation and how employees can protect their digital lives at home. Supplier Engagement: We require our suppliers to comply with our standard information security terms and conditions, in addition to any requirements from our customers, as a condition of doing business with us, and require them to complete information security questionnaires to review and assess any potential cyber-related risks depending on the nature of the services being provided. Risk Assessment: At least annually, we conduct a cybersecurity risk assessment that takes into account information from internal stakeholders, our risk register, and information from external sources (e.g., reported security incidents that have impacted other companies, industry trends, and evaluations by third parties and consultants). The results of the assessment are used to drive alignment on, and prioritization of, initiatives to enhance our security controls, make recommendations to improve processes, and inform a broader enterprise-level risk assessment that is presented to our Board, Audit Committee, and members of management. Technical Safeguards: We regularly assess and deploy technical safeguards designed to protect our information systems from cybersecurity threats. Such safeguards are regularly evaluated and improved based on vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity threat intelligence, and incident response experience. Governance Our Board of Directors, in coordination with each of our Board Committees, is responsible for oversight of our enterprise risk management activities. The Nominating and Governance committee receives an update on the Companys risk management process at least annually, including interaction of cybersecurity with our overall risks. The Board of Directors oversees risks from cybersecurity threats through report out from the Audit Committee, which monitors cybersecurity incidents and management's response to such incidents. Our Audit Committee directly oversees our cybersecurity program. Quarterly reports are delivered to the Audit Committee by the Chief Information & Digital Officer ("CIDO") and/or the Director of Cybersecurity at least four times per year. These reports include information about the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents, including material security risks and information security vulnerabilities. These reports also include updates on cybersecurity risk resulting from risk assessments, progress of risk reduction initiatives, external auditor feedback, control maturity assessments, and relevant internal and industry cybersecurity incidents. Our CIDO has served in various roles in IT and information security for over 20. She holds an undergraduate degree in information management and technology. Our Director of Cybersecurity has served in various roles in IT and information security for over 18 years, including in the military and the healthcare and retail industries. 31 Table of Contents Cybersecurity Incidents In the event of a cybersecurity incident, our response and mitigation efforts are guided by the IRP, which provides guidance on how to respond to, and recover from, a significant cyber incident requiring an organized response. We continue to conduct tabletop exercises testing the principles and procedures set forth in our IRP based on lessons learned. While we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, to date none have materially affected the Company or our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We continue to invest in the cybersecurity and resiliency of our networks and to enhance our internal controls and processes, which are designed to help protect our systems and infrastructure, and the information they contain. For more information about cybersecurity risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2023, we occupied principal manufacturing facilities and business centers in the following locations: Reportable Segment Approximate Square Footage (in thousands) Performance Sensing Sensing Solutions Country Location Owned Leased Bulgaria Botevgrad X 184 Bulgaria Plovdiv X 125 Bulgaria Sofia X 121 China Baoying (1) X X 301 385 China Changzhou X X 618 India Pune X X 32 Malaysia Subang Jaya X 138 Mexico Aguascalientes X X 566 Mexico Mexicali X X 41 116 Mexico Tijuana X X 258 The Netherlands Hengelo X X 94 United Kingdom Antrim X 112 United Kingdom Swindon (2) X 34 United States Attleboro, MA (3) X X 435 United States Carpinteria, CA X X 51 United States Grandview, MO X 47 United States Thousand Oaks, CA X X 115 United States Burlington, VT X 133 1,973 1,933 __________________________ (1) The owned portion of the properties in this location serves the Sensing Solutions segment only. (2) Our U.K. headquarters is located in this facility. (3) Our U.S. headquarters is located in this facility. These facilities are primarily devoted to research, development, engineering, manufacturing, and assembly. In addition to these principal facilities, we occupy other manufacturing, engineering, warehousing, administrative, and sales facilities worldwide, which are primarily leased. We consider our manufacturing facilities sufficient to meet our current operational requirements. An increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. We believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required; however, if we are unable to acquire, integrate, and move into production the facilities, equipment, and personnel necessary to meet such an increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations, and/or financial condition may suffer materially. Leases covering our currently occupied principal leased facilities expire at varying dates within the next 13 years. We do not anticipate difficulty in retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy, or by replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities. 32 Table of Contents A significant portion of our owned properties and equipment is subject to a lien under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are regularly involved in a number of claims and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters, based upon our experience and current information known to us, we do not expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our ordinary shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ST." Performance Graph The following graph compares the total shareholder return of our ordinary shares since December 31, 2018 to the total shareholder return since that date of the Standard & Poors ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Industrial Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our ordinary shares and each index was $100.00 on December 31, 2018. Total Shareholder Return of $100.00 Investment from December 31, 2018 As of December 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Sensata $ 100.00 $ 120.14 $ 117.62 $ 137.58 $ 90.75 $ 85.43 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 131.49 $ 155.68 $ 200.37 $ 164.08 $ 207.21 S&P 500 Industrial $ 100.00 $ 126.83 $ 138.25 $ 165.07 $ 153.35 $ 177.94 The information in the graph and table above is not "soliciting material," is not deemed "filed" with the United States (the "U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date 33 Table of Contents of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The total shareholder return shown on the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future price performance. Stockholders As of February 7, 2024, there were three holders of record of our ordinary shares, primarily Cede & Co. (which acts as nominee shareholder for the Depository Trust Company). Dividends In fiscal year 2023, we made payments of quarterly dividends of $0.11 per share in February 2023 and $0.12 per share in May, August, and November 2023. We expect that comparable cash dividends will continue to be paid in the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to continue to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In that regard, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Sensata Technologies B.V. ("STBV"), may be limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to its immediate parent company and, ultimately, to us. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (the "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our dividend restrictions. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to the extent that the shareholders' equity of such subsidiary exceeds the reserves required to be maintained by law or under its articles of association. Under the laws of England and Wales, we are able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares only out of distributable reserves on our statutory balance sheet. Distributable reserves are a companys accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. Realized reserves are determined in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards at the time the relevant accounts are prepared. We are not permitted to make a distribution if, at the time, the amount of our net assets is less than the aggregate of our issued and paid-up share capital and undistributable reserves or to the extent that the distribution will reduce our net assets below such amount. Subject to these limitations, the payment of future cash dividends will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, our overall financial condition, and any other factors deemed relevant by our shareholders and Board of Directors. Under current United Kingdom ("U.K.") tax legislation, any future dividends paid by us will not be subject to withholding or deduction on account of U.K. tax, irrespective of the tax residence or the individual circumstances of the recipient shareholder. Shareholders should consult their tax advisors regarding their particular tax situation and the income tax consequences on any potential dividend income received from us. Share Repurchase Programs From time to time, our Board of Directors has authorized various share repurchase programs, which may be modified or terminated by the Board at any time. Under these programs, we may repurchase ordinary shares at such times and in amounts to be determined by our management, based on market conditions, legal requirements, and other corporate considerations, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, provided that such transactions were completed pursuant to an agreement and with a third party approved by our shareholders at the annual general meeting. On January 20, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a $500.0 million ordinary share repurchase program (the January 2022 Program), which replaced the previous $500.0 million program approved in July 2019. On September 26, 2023, our Board of Directors authorized a new $500.0 million ordinary share repurchase program (the "September 2023 Program"), which replaced the January 2022 Program and became effective on October 1, 2023. The form of the September 2023 Program was approved by shareholders on May 25, 2023. The September 2023 Program does not have an established expiration date. The process or criteria used to determine the amount of repurchases is an ongoing and frequent review of our capacity of available cash and our overall capital allocation priorities. 34 Table of Contents Issuer purchase of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (in shares) (1) Weighted-Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Programs (in shares)(2) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plan or Programs (in millions) (2) October 1 through October 31, 2023 215,560 $ 37.78 211,525 $ 492.0 November 1 through November 30, 2023 318,268 $ 31.61 318,052 $ 482.0 December 1 through December 31, 2023 302,639 $ 33.40 301,043 $ 471.9 Quarter total 836,467 $ 33.85 830,620 $ 471.9 __________________________ (1)The number of ordinary shares presented includes ordinary shares that were withheld to cover payment of employee withholding tax upon the vesting of restricted securities. These withholdings took place outside of a publicly announced repurchase plan. There were 4,035, 216, and 1,596 ordinary shares withheld in October 2023, November 2023, and December 2023, respectively, representing a total aggregate fair value of $0.2 million based on the closing price of our ordinary shares on the date of withholdings. (2)All purchases during the three months ended December 31, 2023 were conducted pursuant to the September 2023 Program. The September 2023 Program does not have an established expiration date. ITEM 6. RESERVED ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Item 1: Business and our Financial Statements, each included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"). The statements in this discussion regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We innovate on behalf of our broad array of customers, solving some of their most difficult engineering challenges by providing sensors and sensor-rich solutions, electrical protection components and systems, and other products. Solving these mission-critical challenges enables us to deliver differentiated value for both our customers and shareholders, while also investing in our growth opportunities and our people. Refer to Item 1: Business included elsewhere in this Report for additional discussion on our growth drivers. We anticipate significant change in the markets that we serve over the next 10 years, as our customers transform their businesses and product portfolios to adjust to decarbonization trends. Many equipment categories are electrifying, and significant investment is being made in global infrastructure to support this trend. During fiscal year 2023, we recognized Electrification revenue of approximately $673 million. New business wins ("NBOs") were approximately $657 million in fiscal year 2023, of which more than half were in Electrification. We define NBOs as incremental revenue to our current base of business that is expected to be recognized on average in the fifth year after entry into the agreement, when programs typically reach their normal volume. Accordingly, NBOs are an indicator of future revenue potential. We believe regulatory requirements for safer vehicles, higher fuel efficiency, and lower emissions, as well as customer demand for operator productivity and convenience, drive the need for advancements in powertrain management, efficiency, safety, and operator controls. These advancements lead to sensor growth rates that we expect to exceed underlying production growth in many of our key end markets, which we expect will continue to offer us significant growth opportunities. In fiscal year 2023, according to third party data, global production of light vehicles increased approximately 9% and global production in the heavy vehicle and off-road ("HVOR") markets we serve increased approximately 1% to 2%, each from the prior year. 35 Table of Contents Fiscal year 2023 highlights In the fourth quarter of 2023, we determined that, as of October 1, 2023, our Insights reporting unit was impaired. As a result, we recorded a $321.7 million non-cash impairment charge, representing the entire goodwill balance allocated to Insights. This impairment was primarily driven by reprioritization of our investments into electrification. This reprioritization evolved from an assessment of our business strategy, beginning in the second half of 2023. With electrification as the clear future of our company and the best area of focus for management, in the fourth quarter of 2023, we decided to narrow our investment in Insights. Our assessment of the potential of the business has not changed, but our focus has moved from growth of the business to profitability. These decisions resulted in significant cost restructuring and a lower long-range financial forecast for the reporting unit, impacting the valuation of the business with respect to the goodwill impairment analysis. Other valuation assumptions for the Insights reporting unit valuation that are impacted by macroeconomic factors also contributed to the impairment. We are considering strategic alternatives for this business as we continue to focus our investment priorities in line with our strategy. In the year ended December 31, 2023, we committed to a plan to reorganize our business (the Q3 2023 Plan). The Q3 2023 Plan, consisting of voluntary and involuntary reductions-in-force, site closures, and other cost-savings initiatives, was commenced to adjust our cost structure and business activities to better align with weaker market demand we have been experiencing due to continued economic uncertainty in many of our end markets and to take active measures to accelerate margin recovery. Our business strategy remains the same with increasing focus and effort in penetrating the fast-growing electrification trend where we are having great success with significant NBOs. The reductions-in-force, which are subject to the laws and regulations of the countries in which the actions are planned, are expected to impact 466 positions. Over the life of the Q3 2023 Plan, we expect to incur restructuring charges of between $20.5 million and $25.5 million, primarily related to reductions-in-force. The majority of the actions under the Q3 2023 Plan are expected to be completed on or before June 30, 2024. In the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized approximately $23.5 million of charges related to the Q3 2023 Plan. As of December 31, 2023, our severance liability related to the Q3 2023 Plan was $6.0 million. Refer to Note 5: Restructuring and Other Charges, Net, of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information. We expect that the actions taken in the Q3 2023 Plan will result in annualized savings of approximately $40 million to $50 million. On June 6, 2023, we announced that we had made the decision to exit the marine energy storage business (the "Marine Business") of Spear Power Systems (Spear). The exit of the Spear Marine Business was the result of a change in strategy with respect to the business and involved ceasing sales, marketing, and business operations. It resulted in the elimination of certain positions, primarily in the U.S. and the closure of operations in Belgium. The Spear Marine Business had been included in the Sensing Solutions reportable segment. Exiting the Spear Marine Business resulted in charges in the year ended December 31, 2023 of approximately $38.5 million, consisting of accelerated amortization, inventory and property, plant and equipment ("PP&E") write-downs, severance charges, and other charges, including contract termination costs. Refer to Note 5: Restructuring and Other Charges, Net, of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information on the Q3 2023 Plan and our exit from the Spear Marine Business. In fiscal year 2023, we used $848.9 million of cash to pay debt, including prepaying the entire remaining outstanding principal on our variable-rate term loan facility ("Term Loan") balance in the first half of 2023 and the early redemption of the full $400.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding on our 5.625% senior notes due 2024 (the "5.625% Senior Notes") in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the 5.625% Senior Notes were issued. These repayments brought our gross outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2023 to $3.4 billion, representing a net leverage ratio of 3.2x, compared to gross indebtedness of $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 (representing a net leverage ratio of 3.4x). Net leverage ratio, discussed throughout this Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (this "MD&A"), is a financial measure not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Refer to Non-GAAP Financial Measures included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional information related to our use of net leverage ratio. Fiscal year 2023 financial summary Our consolidated revenue increased 0.6% in fiscal year 2023 from the prior year. Excluding a decrease of 1.4% attributed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase of 0.5% due to the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures, net revenue increased 1.5% on an organic basis. Organic revenue growth (or decline), discussed throughout this MD&A, is a financial measure not presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Refer to Non-GAAP Financial Measures included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional information related to our use of organic revenue growth (or decline). Organic revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in demand in markets we serve in the Automotive, HVOR, and Aerospace businesses, content 36 Table of Contents growth, and the impact of pricing recoveries, partially offset by revenue mix, market declines, and inventory destocking in our Industrial business. Operating income for fiscal year 2023 decreased $488.5 million, or 72.9%, to $181.7 million (4.5% of net revenue) compared to $670.1 million (16.6% of net revenue) in the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the $321.7 million impairment of the Insights reporting unit in the fourth quarter. In addition, operating income in the prior year included $135.1 million of gain on sale of various assets and liabilities comprising our semiconductor test and thermal business (collectively, the "Qinex Business"), for which there was no comparable amount in fiscal year 2023. Other charges during the year, such as those related to our exit from the Spear Marine Business and the entry into the Q3 2023 Plan, and the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, were partially offset by the net impacts of pricing recoveries from customers with inflation on material and logistics costs, volume leverage, and cost savings during the year resulting from repositioning actions taken in fiscal year 2022. Refer to Results of Operations included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional discussion of our earnings results for the year ended December 31, 2023. We generated $456.7 million of operating cash flows in fiscal year 2023, ending the year with $508.1 million in cash. In fiscal year 2023, in addition to paying $848.9 million on debt as discussed elsewhere, we used cash of approximately $88.4 million for share repurchases and $71.5 million for payment of cash dividends. In fiscal year 2024, we will continue to execute our capital allocation strategy that is currently designed to reduce our leverage and return capital to shareholders through our dividend and opportunistic share repurchases. This strategy reduces risk in our capital structure, lowers interest expense, and improves net income and earnings per share. We expect improving free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures) will naturally allow net leverage to decline and returns on invested capital to improve over time. Selected Segment Information We present financial information for two reportable segments, Performance Sensing and Sensing Solutions. Set forth below is selected information for each of these segments for the periods presented. Effective April 1, 2023, we moved our material handling products from the HVOR operating segment (in the Performance Sensing reportable segment) to the Sensing Solutions operating segment to align with new management reporting. The amounts previously reported in the tables below for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 have been retrospectively recast to reflect this change. Amounts and percentages in the tables below have been calculated based on unrounded numbers, accordingly, certain amounts may not appear to recalculate due to the effect of rounding. The following table presents net revenue by segment for the identified periods: For the year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total Net revenue: Performance Sensing $ 3,002.7 74.1 % $ 2,920.4 72.5 % $ 2,801.2 73.3 % Sensing Solutions 1,051.4 25.9 1,108.9 27.5 1,019.6 26.7 Total net revenue $ 4,054.1 100.0 % $ 4,029.3 100.0 % $ 3,820.8 100.0 % The following table presents segment operating income in U.S. dollars ("USD") and as a percentage of segment net revenue for the identified periods: For the year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Segment operating income: Performance Sensing $ 744.2 24.8 % $ 728.3 24.9 % $ 758.1 27.1 % Sensing Solutions 299.0 28.4 % 323.3 29.2 % 312.3 30.6 % Total segment operating income $ 1,043.3 $ 1,051.7 $ 1,070.4 For a reconciliation of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income, refer to Note 20: Segment Reporting of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 37 Table of Contents Effective February 1, 2024, we combined our Automotive and HVOR businesses to better leverage core capabilities and prioritize product focus into one business, Vehicles, under the Performance Sensing reportable segment. The Sensing Solutions reportable segment will benefit from organizing our predominantly shorter-cycle businesses together, by allowing us to scale core capabilities and better serve our customers. We are still evaluating what impact this reorganization will have on our reportable segments, operating segments, and reporting units in the first quarter of 2024. Selected Geographic Information We are a global business with significant operations around the world and a diverse revenue mix by geography, customer, and end market. The following table presents (as a percentage of total) PP&E and net revenue by geographic region for the identified periods: PP&E, net as of December 31, Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 2022 2023 2022 2021 Americas 35.9 % 33.7 % 45.0 % 42.3 % 38.0 % Europe 17.9 % 20.0 % 26.3 % 25.9 % 26.2 % Asia and rest of world 46.2 % 46.3 % 28.7 % 31.8 % 35.8 % Refer to Note 20: Segment Reporting of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our PP&E, net balances by selected geographic area as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 and net revenue by selected geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021. Net Revenue by End Market Our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 was derived from the following end markets: For the year ended December 31, (Percentage of total) 2023 2022 2021 Automotive 53.7 % 52.3 % 54.0 % HVOR 21.3 % 21.1 % 20.5 % Industrial 14.7 % 14.4 % 12.0 % Appliance and HVAC (1) 4.6 % 5.4 % 6.4 % Aerospace 4.7 % 3.8 % 3.5 % Other 1.0 % 3.0 % 3.6 % __________________________ (1) Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning We are a significant supplier to multiple OEMs within many of these end markets, thereby reducing customer concentration risk. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results The following discussion describes components of the consolidated statements of operations as well as factors that impact those components. Refer to Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional information related to the accounting policies and estimates made related to these components. Refer to Results of Operations included elsewhere in this MD&A for discussion of the actual impact on our financial statements of these factors. Net revenue We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales into the automotive end market, and conditions in the automotive industry can have a significant impact on the amount of revenue that we recognize. Outside of the automotive industry, we sell our products and solutions to end-users in a wide range of industries, end markets, and geographic regions, and the drivers of demand for these products and solutions vary considerably and are influenced by industry, market, or geographic conditions. Changes in demand for these products and solutions could impact our revenue materially. Our overall net revenue is impacted by various factors, which we characterize as "organic" or "inorganic." Inorganic factors include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures. 38 Table of Contents Organic factors include fluctuations in overall economic activity within the industries, end markets, and geographic regions in which we operate, which we term market growth. Other organic factors combine to reflect what we refer to as market outgrowth. Such factors include (but are not limited to): (a) the number of our products used within existing applications, or the development of new applications requiring these products, due to regulations or other factors; (b) the "mix" of products sold, including the proportion of new or upgraded products and their pricing relative to existing products; (c) changes in product sales prices (including quantity discounts, rebates, and cash discounts for prompt payment); (d) changes in the level of competition faced by our products, including the launch of new products by competitors; (e) our ability to successfully develop, launch, and sell new products and applications; and (f) the evolution of the markets we serve to safer, cleaner, and more efficient, electrified, and connected technologies. While the factors described above may impact net revenue in each of our reportable segments, the magnitude of that impact can differ. For more information about revenue risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. Cost of revenue We manufacture most of our products, subcontracting only a limited number to third parties. As such, our cost of revenue consists principally of the following: Production Materials Costs. We source production materials globally to ensure a highly effective and efficient supply chain. However, we are still impacted by local market conditions, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of our production materials contains certain commodities, resins, and metals, the cost of which may vary with underlying pricing and foreign currency exchange rates. We use forward contracts to economically hedge a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices associated with certain of these commodities, including the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. The terms of these forward contracts fix the price of these commodities at a future date for various notional amounts. Gains and losses recognized on these derivatives are recorded in other, net and are not included in cost of revenue. Refer to Note 6: Other, Net of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information. Employee Costs. Wages and benefits, including variable incentive compensation, for employees involved in our manufacturing operations and certain customer service and engineering activities is reflected in cost of revenue. A substantial portion of these costs can fluctuate on an aggregate basis in direct correlation with changes in production volumes. These costs may decline as a percentage of net revenue due to economies of scale associated with higher production volumes, and conversely, may increase with lower production volumes. These costs also fluctuate based on local labor market conditions. We rely on contract workers for direct labor in certain geographies. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 2,200 direct labor contract workers worldwide. Sustaining Engineering Activity Costs. Modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications are included in cost of revenue, as are costs related to improvements in our manufacturing processes. Other. Our remaining cost of revenue primarily consists of: gains and losses on certain foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges; material yields; costs to import raw materials, such as tariffs; depreciation of fixed assets used in the manufacturing process; freight costs; warehousing expenses; maintenance and repair expenses; costs of quality assurance; operating supplies; and other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses for energy consumption and operating lease expense. Changes in cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by several factors, including: changes in the price of raw materials, including the impact of changes in costs to import such raw materials, such as tariffs; changes in customer prices and surcharges; implementation of cost improvement measures aimed at increasing productivity, including reduction of fixed production costs, refinements in inventory management, design and process driven changes, and the coordination of procurement within each subsidiary and at the business level; product lifecycles, as we typically incur higher costs associated with new product development (related to excess manufacturing capacity and higher production costs during the initial stages of product launches) and during the phase-out of discontinued products; changes in production volumes, as a portion of production costs are fixed; 39 Table of Contents transfer of production to our lower-cost manufacturing facilities; changes in depreciation expense, including those arising from the adjustment of PP&E to fair value associated with acquisitions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in product mix; changes in logistics costs; acquisitions and divestitures acquired and divested businesses may generate higher or lower cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue than our core business; and the increase in the carrying value of inventory adjusted to fair value upon the application of purchase accounting associated with acquisitions. Research and development expense We develop products that address increasingly complex engineering and operating performance requirements to help our customers solve their most difficult challenges in the automotive, HVOR, fleet management, industrial, clean energy, and aerospace industries. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development ("R&D") is critical to our future growth and maintaining our leadership positions in the markets we serve. Our R&D efforts are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to our business strategy. We continually develop our technologies to meet an evolving set of customer requirements and new product introductions. We conduct such activities in areas that we believe will increase our long-term revenue growth. Our development expense is typically associated with engineering core technology platforms to specific applications and engineering major upgrades that improve the functionality or reduce the cost of existing products. In addition, we continually consider new technologies where we may have expertise for potential investment or acquisition. A large portion of our R&D activities is directed towards technologies and market trends that we believe have the potential for significant future growth, but that relate to products that are not currently within our core business or include new features and capabilities for existing products. Expenses related to these activities are less likely to result in increased near-term revenue than our more mainstream development activities. R&D expense consists of costs related to product design, development, and process engineering. Costs related to modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications are presented in cost of revenue and are not included in R&D expense. The level of R&D expense in any period is related to the number of products in development, the stage of the development process, the complexity of the underlying technology, the potential scale of the product upon successful commercialization, and the level of our exploratory research. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense consists of all expenditures incurred in connection with the sale and marketing of our products, as well as administrative overhead costs, including: salary and benefit costs for sales and marketing personnel and administrative staff; share-based incentive compensation expense; charges related to the use and maintenance of administrative offices, including depreciation expense; other administrative costs, including expenses relating to information systems, human resources, and legal, finance, and accounting services; other selling and marketing related costs, such as expenses incurred in connection with travel and communications; and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. Changes in SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in sales volume, as higher volumes enable us to spread the fixed portion of our selling, marketing, and administrative expense over higher revenue (e.g., expenses relating to our sales and marketing personnel can fluctuate due to prolonged trends in sales volume, while expenses relating to administrative personnel generally do not increase or decrease directly with changes in sales volume); changes in customer prices and surcharges; changes in the mix of products we sell, as some products may require more customer support and sales effort than others; new product launches in existing and new markets, as these launches typically involve a more intense sales and marketing activity before they are integrated into customer applications and systems; changes in our customer base, as new customers may require different levels of sales and marketing attention; 40 Table of Contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and acquisitions and divestitures - acquired and divested businesses may require different levels of SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue than our core business. Depreciation expense Depreciation expense includes depreciation of PP&E, which includes assets held under finance lease and amortization of leasehold improvements. Depreciation expense is included in either cost of revenue or SG&A expense depending on the use of the asset as a manufacturing or administrative asset. Depreciation expense will vary according to the age of existing PP&E and the level of capital expenditures. Amortization expense We have recognized a significant amount of definite-lived intangible assets. Acquisition-related definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on an economic-benefit basis according to the useful lives of the assets, or on a straight-line basis if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined. The amount of amortization expense related to definite-lived intangible assets depends on the amount and timing of definite-lived intangible assets acquired and where previously acquired definite-lived intangible assets are in their estimated life cycle. In general, the economic benefit of a definite-lived intangible asset is concentrated towards the beginning of its useful life. Restructuring and other charges, net Restructuring charges consist of severance, outplacement, other separation benefits, and facility and other exit costs. These charges may be incurred as part of an announced restructuring plan or may be individual charges recognized related to acquired businesses or the termination of a limited number of employees that do not represent the initiation of a larger restructuring plan. Restructuring and other charges, net also includes the gain, net of transaction costs, from the sale of businesses, expense incurred from acquisition-related compensation arrangements, and other operating income or expense that is not presented elsewhere in operating income. Amounts recognized in restructuring and other charges, net will vary according to the extent of our restructuring programs and other income or expense items not presented elsewhere in operating income. Interest expense As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had gross outstanding indebtedness of $3,425.2 million and $4,273.4 million, respectively. This indebtedness consists of a secured credit facility and various tranches of senior unsecured notes (together, the "Senior Notes"). Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information on our indebtedness. The credit agreement governing our secured credit facility (as amended, supplemented, waived, or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement") provides for senior secured credit facilities (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"), consisting of the Term Loan, the $750.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), and incremental availability (the "Accordion") under which additional secured credit facilities could be issued under certain circumstances. The Senior Notes accrue interest at fixed rates. However, the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility accrue interest at variable interest rates, which could drive some of the variability in interest expense. As of December 31, 2023, we had no amounts outstanding on the Term Loan or Revolving Credit Facility. Refer to