Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included elsewhere in this Report for further discussion of the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units. U.S. federal income tax reform could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Act"), was signed into law, significantly changing the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. These changes include, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate, subjecting certain future foreign subsidiary earnings, whether or not distributed, to U.S. tax under a Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income provision, imposing a new alternative "Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax" on U.S. corporations that limits deductions for certain amounts payable to foreign affiliates, imposing significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest payable to related and unrelated lenders, further limiting deductible executive compensation, and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries through the end of 2017. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Reform Act. We completed our analysis of how the Tax Reform Act may impact the results of our operations as of December 31, 2018. We have recognized the provisional tax impacts related to deemed repatriated earnings, the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and provided for the probable impact of recently issued regulations concerning the Tax Reform Act. These amounts are included in our Financial Statements. The ultimate impact may differ from these provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, issuance of final regulations and regulatory guidance, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Reform Act. Continued analysis and resulting uncertainty, along with many of the changes effected pursuant to the Tax Reform Act, may have an adverse or volatile effect on our tax rate in fiscal years 2019 and beyond, thereby affecting our results of operations. Refer to Note 7, "Income Taxes," of our Financial Statements for further discussion of the Tax Reform Act. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors, which could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.K., China, the U.S., and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, such as changes in tax rates and tax laws as those noted in the U.S. Tax Reform Act above, our global mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effect of complying with transfer pricing requirements under laws of many different countries on our revenues and costs, the consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments, and the taxation of subsidiary income in the jurisdiction of its parent company regardless of whether or not distributed. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. We believe that our redomicile into the U.K. and related transactions should continue to support our ability to maintain a competitive global tax rate since the U.K. has implemented a dividend exemption system that generally does not subject non-U.K. earnings to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. in the form of dividends from non-U.K. subsidiaries. This system should allow us to optimize our capital allocation through global funding structures. However, we cannot provide any assurances as to what our tax rate will be in any period because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as changes in U.S. and other tax laws, treaties and regulations. Our actual global tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of the jurisdictions where we operate could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our tax rate. In addition, we could be subject to future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our global tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. Refer to Note 7, "Income Taxes," of our Financial Statements for further discussion related to income taxes. 20 Table of Contents If significant tariffs or other restrictions continue or are increased on Chinese imports or any related counter-measures are taken by China, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed. In July 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative announced a list of thousands of categories of goods that currently face tariffs of 10%. These tariffs may increase to 25% in March 2019 if the U.S. and China cannot reach an agreement on various related matters. These tariffs currently affect some of the products we import from China, and we may raise our prices on those products due to the tariffs or share the cost of such tariffs with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. It is possible that further tariffs may be imposed on other imports of our products, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our revenue or operating results. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our China manufacturing to other countries, which could result in additional costs and disruption to our operations. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt, paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to us. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, including changes in local government regulations and policies, which could adversely impact the reported results of operations from our international businesses. Our subsidiaries located outside of the U.S. generated approximately 61% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2018 , and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings. In addition, other risks are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions, and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA, the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Certain of our products require us to comply with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulation ("ITAR"), and the sanctions, regulations, and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control 21 Table of Contents ("OFAC"). Our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. These restrictions also apply to technical data for design, development, production, use, repair, and maintenance of such ITAR-controlled products. The export of ITAR-controlled products or technical data requires an individual validated license from the U.S. State Departments Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Any delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, such licenses could result in a material reduction in revenue. We also export products that are subject to other export regulations. Any changes in these export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. This area remains fluid in terms of regulatory developments. Should we need an export license under existing regulations, the length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. We have no control over the time it takes to process an export license. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue. We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our OFAC and ITAR compliance programs. Although we continue to enhance these compliance programs, we cannot assure you that any such enhancements will ensure that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that applicable authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines or penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. Changes in existing environmental or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for our products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things: the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; product hazardous material content; and the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, or that we will not be subject to 22 Table of Contents additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS"), End of Life Vehicle ("ELV"), and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals ("REACH") regulation; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights, or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert managements attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We also may be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows. U.K. Domicile Risks As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. English law imposes additional restrictions on certain corporate actions. For example, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot, or issue, securities with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or 23 Table of Contents relevant shareholder resolution. English law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the articles of association, or shareholders at a general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. We currently only have authorization to issue shares under our equity plan excluding preemptive rights until our next annual general meeting. This authorization and exclusion needs to be renewed by our shareholders periodically and we intend to renew the authorization and exclusion at each annual general meeting. English law also requires us to have available "distributable reserves" to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders. Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the U.K. parent company or other actions. While we intend to maintain a sufficient level of distributable reserves, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient earnings in order to maintain the necessary level of distributable reserves to make share repurchases or pay dividends. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of our shareholders. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is not a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. Consequently, any repurchase of our shares is currently considered an "off-market purchase." Our current authorization expires on May 31, 2023, and we intend to renew this authorization periodically. As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be more difficult. Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for a U.S. company. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the U.S. federal securities laws. The English courts will, however, treat any amount payable by us under U.S. judgment as a debt and new proceedings can be commenced in the English courts to enforce this debt against us. The following criteria must be satisfied for the English court to enforce the debt created by the U.S. judgment: the U.S. court having had jurisdiction over the original proceedings according to English conflicts of laws principles and rules of English private international law at the time when proceedings were initiated; the U.S. proceedings not having been brought in breach of a jurisdiction or arbitration clause except with the agreement of the defendant or the defendants subsequent submission to the jurisdiction of the court; the U.S. judgment being final and conclusive on the merits in the sense of being final and unalterable in the court which pronounced it and being for a definite sum of money; the recognition or enforcement, as the case may be, of the U.S. judgment not contravening English public policy in a sufficiently significant way or contravening the Human Rights Act 1998 (or any subordinate legislation made thereunder, to the extent applicable); the U.S. judgment not being for a sum payable in respect of taxes, or other charges of a like nature, or in respect of a penalty or fine, or otherwise based on a U.S. law that an English court considers to be a penal or revenue law; the U.S. judgment not having been arrived at by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damages sustained, and not otherwise being a judgment contrary to section 5 of the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 or is a judgment based on measures designated by the Secretary of State under Section 1 of that Act; the U.S. judgment not having been obtained by fraud or in breach of English principles of natural justice; 24 Table of Contents the U.S. judgment not being a judgment on a matter previously determined by an English court, or another court whose judgment is entitled to recognition (or enforcement as the case may be) in England, in proceedings involving the same parties that conflicts with an earlier judgment of such court; the party seeking enforcement (being a party who is not ordinarily resident in some part of the U.K. or resident in an EU Member State) providing security for costs, if ordered to do so by the English courts; and the English enforcement proceedings being commenced within the relevant limitation period. If an English court gives judgment for the sum payable under a U.S. judgment, the English judgment will be enforceable by methods generally available for this purpose. These methods generally permit the English court discretion to prescribe the manner of enforcement. In addition, in any enforcement proceedings, the judgment debtor may raise any counterclaim that could have been brought if the action had been originally brought in England unless the subject of the counterclaim was in issue and denied in the U.S. proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2018 , we occupied principal manufacturing facilities and business centers in the following locations: Operating Segment Approximate Square Footage (in thousands) Performance Sensing Sensing Solutions Country Location Owned Leased Bulgaria Botevgrad X 137 Bulgaria Plovdiv X 125 Bulgaria Sofia X 108 China Baoying (1) X X 296 385 China Changzhou (2) X X 252 236 Germany Berlin X 33 Malaysia Subang Jaya X 135 Mexico Aguascalientes X X 453 Mexico Tijuana X X 287 Netherlands Hengelo X X 94 United Kingdom Antrim X 117 United Kingdom Carrickfergus X 63 United Kingdom Swindon (3) X 34 United States Attleboro, MA (4) X X 433 United States Carpinteria, CA (5) X X 50 United States Thousand Oaks, CA X X 115 1,461 1,892 __________________________________________ (1) The owned portion of the properties in this location serves the Sensing Solutions segment only. (2) In June 2018, ownership of a portion of this property that was previously leased was transferred to us. (3) Our United Kingdom headquarters is located in this facility. (4) This location includes our United States headquarters. The lease agreement relating to approximately 222 thousand square feet at this location was renegotiated in 2018, lowering our rental payments and extending the term to 2033. (5) Facilities at this location were added as part of our acquisition of GIGAVAC, LLC. Refer to Note 17, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (our "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details on this acquisition. These facilities are primarily devoted to research, development, engineering, manufacturing, and assembly. In addition to these primary facilities, we occupy other manufacturing, warehousing, administrative, and sales facilities that we do not consider to be principal. On August 31, 2018 we completed the sale of the capital stock of Schrader Bridgeport International, Inc. and August France Holding Company SAS (collectively, the "Valves Business") to Pacific Industrial Co. Ltd. Facilities in Pontarlier, France and Alta Vista, Virginia that were previously considered principal were sold as part of the Valves Business. Refer to Note 17, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of our Financial Statements for additional details on this divestiture. We consider our manufacturing facilities sufficient to meet our current operational requirements. An increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. We believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required; however, if we are unable to acquire, integrate, and move into production the facilities, equipment, and personnel necessary to meet such an increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations, and/or financial condition may suffer materially. Leases covering our currently occupied principal leased facilities expire at varying dates within the next 18 years. We do not anticipate difficulty in retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy, or by replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities. A significant portion of our owned properties and equipment is subject to a lien under our senior secured credit facilities. Refer to Note 14, "Debt," of our Financial Statements for additional information on our senior secured credit facilities. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are regularly involved in a number of claims and litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. Most of our litigation matters are third-party claims related to patent infringement allegations or for property damage allegedly caused by our products, but some involve allegations of personal injury or wrongful death. From time to time, we also are involved in disagreements with vendors and customers. Information on certain legal proceedings in which we are involved is included in Note 15, "Commitments and Contingencies," of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters, based upon our experience and current information known to us, we do not expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 27 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our ordinary shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ST." Performance Graph The following graph compares the total shareholder return of our ordinary shares since December 31, 2013 to the total shareholder return since that date of the Standard & Poors ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Industrial Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our ordinary shares and each index was $100.00 on December 31, 2013. Total Shareholder Return of $100.00 Investment from December 31, 2013 As of December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sensata $ 100.00 $ 135.18 $ 118.80 $ 100.46 $ 131.83 $ 115.66 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 113.68 $ 115.24 $ 129.02 $ 157.17 $ 150.27 S&P 500 Industrial $ 100.00 $ 109.80 $ 106.99 $ 127.16 $ 153.88 $ 133.38 The information in the graph and table above is not "soliciting material," is not deemed "filed" with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The total shareholder return shown on the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future price performance. Stockholders As of January 15, 2019 , we had four holders of record of our ordinary shares, primarily Cede & Co. (which acts as nominee shareholder for the Depository Trust Company). 28 Table of Contents Dividends We have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares, and we currently do not plan to declare any such dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In that regard, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Sensata Technologies B.V. ("STBV"), is limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to its immediate parent company and, ultimately, to us. Refer to Note 14, "Debt," of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report for additional information on our dividend restrictions. In addition, under Dutch law, STBV and certain of our other subsidiaries that are Dutch private limited liability companies may only pay dividends or make other distributions to the extent that the shareholders' equity of such subsidiary exceeds the reserves required to be maintained by law or under its articles of association. Under the laws of England and Wales, we are able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares only out of distributable reserves on our statutory balance sheet. Distributable reserves are a companys accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. Realized reserves are determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles at the time the relevant accounts are prepared. We are not permitted to make a distribution if, at the time, the amount of our net assets is less than the aggregate of our issued and paid-up share capital and undistributable reserves or to the extent that the distribution will reduce our net assets below such amount. Subject to these limitations, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, our overall financial condition, and any other factors deemed relevant by our shareholders and Board of Directors. Under current United Kingdom ("U.K.") tax legislation, any future dividends paid by us will not be subject to withholding or deduction on account of U.K. tax, irrespective of the tax residence or the individual circumstances of the recipient shareholder. Individual shareholders may need to review their personal circumstances to establish their exposure to U.K. income tax going forward on any dividend income received from us. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 from our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (our "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"). We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 from audited consolidated financial statements not included in this Report. You should read the following information in conjunction with our Financial Statements and Item 7, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included elsewhere in this Report. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. Sensata Technologies Holding plc (Consolidated) (a) For the year ended December 31, (Amounts in thousands, except per share data) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Statement of operations data: (b) Net revenue $ 3,521,627 $ 3,306,733 $ 3,202,288 $ 2,974,961 $ 2,409,803 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of revenue (c) 2,266,863 2,138,898 2,084,159 1,976,845 1,567,527 Research and development (c) 147,279 130,127 126,656 123,603 82,188 Selling, general and administrative (c) 305,558 301,896 293,506 270,773 220,272 Amortization of intangible assets 139,326 161,050 201,498 186,632 146,704 Restructuring and other charges, net (47,818 ) 18,975 4,113 21,919 21,893 Total operating costs and expenses 2,811,208 2,750,946 2,709,932 2,579,772 2,038,584 Profit from operations 710,419 555,787 492,356 395,189 371,219 Interest expense, net (153,679 ) (159,761 ) (165,818 ) (137,626 ) (106,104 ) Other, net (c)(d) (30,365 ) 6,415 (5,093 ) (51,934 ) (11,689 ) Income before taxes 526,375 402,441 321,445 205,629 253,426 (Benefit from)/provision for income taxes (e) (72,620 ) (5,916 ) 59,011 (142,067 ) (30,323 ) Net income $ 598,995 $ 408,357 $ 262,434 $ 347,696 $ 283,749 Basic net income per share $ 3.55 $ 2.39 $ 1.54 $ 2.05 $ 1.67 Diluted net income per share $ 3.53 $ 2.37 $ 1.53 $ 2.03 $ 1.65 Weighted-average ordinary shares outstandingbasic 168,570 171,165 170,709 169,977 170,113 Weighted-average ordinary shares outstandingdiluted 169,859 172,169 171,460 171,513 172,217 Other financial data: (b) Net cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 620,563 $ 557,646 $ 521,525 $ 533,131 $ 382,568 Investing activities $ (237,606 ) $ (140,722 ) $ (174,778 ) $ (1,166,369 ) $ (1,430,065 ) Financing activities $ (406,213 ) $ (15,263 ) $ (337,582 ) $ 764,172 $ 940,930 Additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software $ (159,787 ) $ (144,584 ) $ (130,217 ) $ (177,196 ) $ (144,211 ) 30 Table of Contents As of December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Balance sheet data: (b) Cash and cash equivalents $ 729,833 $ 753,089 $ 351,428 $ 342,263 $ 211,329 Working capital (f) $ 1,277,211 $ 1,218,796 $ 758,189 $ 412,748 $ 441,258 Total assets $ 6,797,687 $ 6,641,525 $ 6,240,976 $ 6,298,910 $ 5,087,507 Total debt, net including capital lease and other financing obligations $ 3,264,941 $ 3,270,269 $ 3,273,594 $ 3,600,991 $ 2,812,734 Total shareholders equity $ 2,608,434 $ 2,345,626 $ 1,942,007 $ 1,668,576 $ 1,302,892 __________________________________________ (a) On March 28, 2018, the cross-border merger of Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. ("Sensata N.V.") and Sensata Technologies Holding plc ("Sensata plc") was completed, with Sensata plc being the surviving entity (the "Merger"). On the date of the Merger, Sensata plc became the publicly-traded parent of the subsidiary companies that were previously controlled by Sensata N.V., with no changes made to the business being conducted by Sensata N.V. prior to the Merger. Due to the various legal aspects of the Merger, Sensata plc retains the historical data of Sensata N.V., and no recasting or adjustment is required as a result of the Merger. (b) We acquired Wabash Worldwide Holding Corp. ("Wabash"), Magnum Energy Incorporated ("Magnum"), CoActive US Holdings, Inc. ("DeltaTech Controls"), and August Cayman Company, Inc. ("Schrader") in 2014, certain assets and subsidiaries of Custom Sensors & Technologies Ltd. ("CST") in 2015, and GIGAVAC, LLC ("GIGAVAC") in 2018. Pro forma amounts are not shown. We sold the capital stock of Schrader Bridgeport International, Inc. and August France Holding Company SAS (collectively, the "Valves Business") in 2018. Prior year amounts have not been recast. Refer to Note 17, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of our Financial Statements for further details on the acquisition of GIGAVAC and the sale of the Valves Business. (c) For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, and 2014, cost of revenue, research and development expense, selling, general and administrative expense, and other, net have been recast to reflect our adoption of the guidance in FASB ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715), Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost on January 1, 2018. Refer to Note 6, "Other, Net," and Note 13, "Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits," of our Financial Statements for further discussion of this new guidance and the amounts recast for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. (d) Other, net for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 consisted of the following: For the year ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (Loss)/gain related to foreign currency exchange rates (i) $ (16,835 ) $ 2,423 $ (12,471 ) $ (6,007 ) $ (1,443 ) (Loss)/gain on commodity forward contracts (8,481 ) 9,989 7,399 (18,468 ) (9,017 ) Loss on debt financing (2,350 ) (2,670 ) (25,538 ) (1,875 ) Net periodic benefit (cost)/credit, excluding service cost (ii) (3,585 ) (3,402 ) (192 ) (1,605 ) 370 Other 886 75 171 (316 ) 276 Other, net $ (30,365 ) $ 6,415 $ (5,093 ) $ (51,934 ) $ (11,689 ) __________________________________________ (i) Includes foreign currency remeasurement (loss)/gain, net and gain/(loss), net on foreign currency forward contracts. Refer to Note 6, "Other, Net," of our Financial Statements for details. (ii) Refer to footnote (c) above for further discussion. (e) For the year ended December 31, 2018, the benefit from income taxes includes a net benefit of $122.1 million related to the realization of United States ("U.S.") deferred tax assets previously offset by a valuation allowance. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the benefit from income taxes includes a net benefit of $73.7 million related to the enactment of U.S. tax legislation in the fourth quarter of 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the benefit from income taxes includes a net benefit of $180.0 million , primarily related to the release of a portion of our U.S. valuation allowance in connection with the acquisition of CST. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the benefit from income taxes includes a net benefit of $71.1 million related to the release of a portion of our U.S. valuation allowance in connection with certain 2014 acquisitions. Refer to Note 7, "Income Taxes," of our Financial Statements for additional information. (f) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Item 1, "Business," Item 6, "Selected Financial Data," and our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (our "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"). The statements in this discussion regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors," included elsewhere in this Report. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Sensata Technologies Holding plc ("Sensata plc"), the successor issuer to Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. ("Sensata N.V.") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, collectively referred to as the "Company," "Sensata," "we," "our," and "us," is a global industrial technology company that develops, manufactures, and sells a wide range of customized sensors and controls that address increasingly complex engineering requirements for specific customer applications and systems such as air conditioning, braking, exhaust, fuel oil, tire, operator controls, and transmission in automotive and heavy vehicle and off-road ("HVOR") systems, and temperature and electrical protection and control in numerous industrial applications, including aircraft, refrigeration, material handling, and telecommunications. The acquisition of GIGAVAC, LLC ("GIGAVAC") expands our product offerings to include high voltage contactors and fuses. We can trace our origins back to entities that have been engaged in the sensors and controls business since 1916. We generate revenue from the sale of products across all major geographic areas. We serve a diverse mix of customers and end markets. We believe regulatory requirements for safer vehicles, higher fuel efficiency, and lower emissions, such as the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's Corporate Average Fuel Economy requirements in the U.S., "Euro 6d" requirements in Europe, and "China National 6" requirements in China, as well as customer demand for operator productivity and convenience, drive the need for advancements in powertrain management, efficiency, safety features, and operator controls. These advancements lead to sensor growth rates that exceed underlying demand in many of our key end markets, which we expect will continue to offer us significant growth opportunities. The technology-driven, highly-customized, and integrated nature of our products requires customers to invest heavily in certification and qualification to ensure proper functioning of the systems in which our products are embedded. We believe the capital commitment and time required for this process significantly increases the switching costs for customers once a particular sensor or control has been designed and installed in a system. As a result, our sensors and controls are rarely substituted during a product lifecycle, which in the case of the automotive market typically lasts five to seven years. We focus on new applications that will help us secure new business, drive long-term growth, and provide an opportunity to define a leading application technology in collaboration with our customers. Our strategies of leveraging core technology platforms and focusing on high-volume applications enable us to provide our customers with highly-customized products at a relatively low cost, as compared to the costs of the systems in which our products are embedded. We have achieved our current cost position through a continuous process of migration and transformation to best-cost manufacturing locations, global best-cost sourcing, product design improvements, and ongoing productivity-enhancing initiatives. We organize our business into two segments: Performance Sensing and Sensing Solutions. Performance Sensing designs and manufactures sensors for the automotive and HVOR markets, including low-, medium-, and high-pressure sensors, speed and position sensors, and temperature sensors, and markets them to leading global automotive and HVOR original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and their Tier 1 suppliers. Sensing Solutions designs and manufactures various sensors and control products, including bimetal electromechanical controls, thermal and magnetic-hydraulic circuit breakers, solid state relays, power inverters, interconnection products, and temperature, pressure, and position sensors, selling them to a wide range of industrial and commercial manufacturers and suppliers across multiple end markets. The acquisition of GIGAVAC, portions of which will be integrated into each of our operating segments, expands our product offerings to include high voltage contactors and fuses. We develop products that address increasingly complex engineering requirements. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development ("R&D") activities is critical to our future growth and maintaining our leadership 32 Table of Contents position. Our R&D efforts are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to our core business strategy. We develop our technologies to meet an evolving set of customer requirements and new product introductions. We conduct such activities in areas that we believe will increase our long-term revenue growth. Our development expense is typically associated with engineering core technology platforms to specific applications and engineering major upgrades that improve the functionality or reduce the cost of existing products. In August 2018 we completed the sale of the capital stock of Schrader Bridgeport International, Inc. and August France Holding Company SAS (collectively, the "Valves Business") to Pacific Industrial Co. Ltd. ("Pacific"). The Valves Business, which was acquired as part of Sensatas acquisition of the Schrader group of companies in 2014 and had been integrated into Performance Sensing, generated approximately $117 million in revenue in fiscal year 2017. It manufactures mechanical valves for pressure applications in tires and fluid control and assembles tire hardware aftermarket products with manufacturing locations in the United States (the "U.S.") and Europe. The sale did not include our tire pressure monitoring system ("TPMS") business and the Global TPMS Aftermarket business. Refer to Note 17, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of our Financial Statements for additional details on this divestiture. In October 2018 we acquired GIGAVAC, an industry-leading producer of high voltage contactors and fuses that are mission-critical components for electric vehicles and equipment, for $233.0 million of cash consideration, subject to working capital and other adjustments. The acquisition of GIGAVAC extends our capabilities on battery electric vehicles, with significant potential for additional growth, and will enable us to tap into a broad market opportunity for high-voltage contactors required in mission-critical sensing and electrical protection applications across electrified vehicles and industrial equipment such as cars, delivery trucks, busses, material handling equipment, and charging stations. It will immediately augment our ongoing investments in electrification for many complex and challenging applications in the automotive, battery storage, industrial, and HVOR markets. Refer to Note 17, "Acquisitions and Divestitures," of our Financial Statements for additional details on this acquisition. Refer to Item 1, "Business," included elsewhere in this Report for additional discussion of our business. Selected Segment Information We manage Performance Sensing and Sensing Solutions separately and report their results of operations as two segments. Set forth below is selected information for each of these segments for the periods presented. Amounts in the tables below have been calculated based on unrounded numbers. Accordingly, certain amounts may not sum due to the effect of rounding. The following table presents net revenue by segment: For the year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Amount Percent of Total Net Revenue Amount Percent of Total Net Revenue Amount Percent of Total Net Revenue Net revenue: Performance Sensing $ 2,627.7 74.6 % $ 2,460.6 74.4 % $ 2,385.4 74.5 % Sensing Solutions 894.0 25.4 846.1 25.6 816.9 25.5 Total net revenue $ 3,521.6 100.0 % $ 3,306.7 100.0 % $ 3,202.3 100.0 % The following table presents segment profit in U.S. dollars and as a percentage of segment net revenue for the identified periods: For the year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (Dollars in millions) Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Segment profit: Performance Sensing $ 712.7 27.1 % $ 664.2 27.0 % $ 615.5 25.8 % Sensing Solutions 293.0 32.8 % 277.5 32.8 % 261.9 32.1 % Total segment profit $ 1,005.7 $ 941.6 $ 877.4 33 Table of Contents For a reconciliation of total segment profit to consolidated profit from operations, refer to Note 20, "Segment Reporting," of our Financial Statements. Selected Geographic Information We are a global business with significant operations around the world and a diverse revenue mix by geography, customer, and end market. The following table presents, as a percentage of total, the geographic location of property, plant, and equipment ("PP&E"), net as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and net revenue generated for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016: PP&E, net as of December 31, Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 2017 2018 2017 2016 Americas 37.2 % 39.6 % 42.0 % 41.3 % 42.7 % Asia and rest of world 39.3 % 35.5 % 28.8 % 27.3 % 25.3 % Europe 23.5 % 24.9 % 29.2 % 31.4 % 32.0 % Refer to Note 20, "Segment Reporting," of our Financial Statements for additional details of our net revenue by selected geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 and PP&E, net by selected geographic area as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 . Net Revenue by End Market Our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017, and 2016 was derived from the following end markets: For the year ended December 31, (Percentage of total) 2018 2017 2016 Automotive 60.4 % 61.7 % 63.1 % HVOR 15.6 % 14.3 % 12.9 % Industrial 9.6 % 9.4 % 9.0 % Appliance and heating, ventilation and air conditioning ("HVAC") 5.9 % 6.3 % 5.9 % Aerospace 4.7 % 4.6 % 4.7 % Other 3.8 % 3.7 % 4.4 % We are a significant supplier to multiple OEMs within many of these end markets, thereby reducing customer concentration risk. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results The following discussion describes components of the consolidated statements of operations as well as factors that impact those components. Refer to Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies," of our Financial Statements, and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included elsewhere in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of the accounting policies and estimates made related to these components. Net revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of tangible products. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales in our automotive end market, demand for our products is driven in large part by conditions in the automotive industry. However, outside of the automotive industry, we sell our products to end-users in a wide range of industries, end markets, and geographic regions. As a result, the drivers of demand for these products vary considerably and are influenced by the conditions in these industries, end markets, or geographic regions. Refer to Item 1, "Business," included elsewhere in this Report for more detailed discussion of factors impacting each of these end markets. Our overall net revenue is impacted by various factors, which we characterize as either "organic" or "inorganic." Organic factors are reflective of our ongoing operations. Inorganic factors either are not reflective of our historical business or are related to situations for which we have little to no control (e.g. changes in foreign currency exchange rates). Our net revenue may be impacted by the following organic factors: fluctuations in overall economic activity within the geographic regions in which we operate; 34 Table of Contents underlying growth in one or more of our core end markets, either worldwide or in particular geographies in which we operate; the number of sensors and/or controls used within existing applications, or the development of new applications requiring sensors and/or controls, due to regulations or other factors; the "mix" of products sold, including the proportion of new or upgraded products and their pricing relative to existing products; changes in product sales prices (including quantity discounts, rebates, and cash discounts for prompt payment); changes in the level of competition faced by our products, including the launch of new products by competitors; and our ability to successfully develop, launch, and sell new products and applications. Our net revenue may be impacted by the following inorganic factors: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and acquisitions and divestitures. While the factors described above may impact net revenue in each of our operating segments, the impact of these factors on our operating segments can differ. For more information about revenue risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A, "Risk Factors," included elsewhere in this Report. Cost of revenue We manufacture the majority of our products and subcontract only a limited number of products to third parties. As such, our cost of revenue consists principally of the following: Production Materials Costs. We purchase much of the materials used in production on a global best-cost basis, but we are still impacted by global and local market conditions. A portion of our production materials contains certain commodities, resins and rare earth metals, and the cost of these materials may vary with underlying pricing. However, we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices associated with certain of these commodities. The terms of these contracts fix the price at a future date for various notional amounts associated with these commodities. Gains and losses recognized on these derivatives are recorded in other, net and are not included in cost of revenue (refer to Note 6, "Other, Net"). Employee Costs. Employee costs include wages and benefits for employees involved in our manufacturing operations. A significant portion of these costs can fluctuate on an aggregate basis in direct correlation with changes in production volumes. As a percentage of net revenue, these costs may decline as a result of economies of scale associated with higher production volumes, and conversely, may increase with lower production volumes. These costs also will fluctuate based on local market conditions. We rely on contract workers for direct labor in certain geographies. As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 1,855 direct labor contract workers on a worldwide basis. Sustaining Engineering Activity Costs. These costs relate to modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications. Other. Our remaining cost of revenue primarily consists of: gains and losses on certain foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges; costs to import raw materials, such as tariffs; depreciation of fixed assets used in the manufacturing process; freight costs; warehousing expenses; maintenance and repair expenses; 35 Table of Contents operating supplies; and other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses for energy consumption and operating lease expense. Changes in cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in the price of raw materials, including the impact of changes in costs to import such raw materials, such as tariffs; price reductions provided to our customers; implementation of cost improvement measures aimed at increasing productivity, including reduction of fixed production costs, refinements in inventory management, design and process driven changes, and the coordination of procurement within each subsidiary and at the business level; changes in production volumes production costs are capitalized in inventory based on normal production volumes, as revenue increases, the fixed portion of these costs does not; transfer of production to our lower-cost manufacturing facilities; product lifecycles, as we typically incur higher cost of revenue associated with excess manufacturing capacity during the initial stages of product launches and during the phase-out of discontinued products; the increase in the carrying value of inventory that is adjusted to fair value as a result of the application of purchase accounting associated with acquisitions; changes in depreciation expense, including those arising from the adjustment of PP&E to fair value associated with acquisitions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in product mix; and acquisitions and divestitures acquired and divested businesses may generate higher or lower cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue than our core business. Research and development expense We develop products that address increasingly complex engineering requirements. Our R&D efforts are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to our core business strategy. We continuously develop our technologies to meet an evolving set of customer requirements and new product introductions. In addition, we constantly consider new technologies where we may have expertise for potential investment or acquisition. R&D expense consists of costs related to product design, development, and process engineering. Costs related to modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications are presented in cost of revenue and are not included in R&D expense. The level of R&D expense in any period is related to the number of products in development, the stage of the development process, the complexity of the underlying technology, the potential scale of the product upon successful commercialization, and the level of our exploratory research. Selling, general and administrative expense SG&A expense consists of all expenditures incurred in connection with the sale and marketing of our products, as well as administrative overhead costs, including: salary and benefit costs for sales and marketing personnel and administrative staff, including cash and share-based incentive compensation expense; charges related to the use and maintenance of administrative offices, including depreciation expense; other administrative costs, including expenses relating to information systems, human resources, and legal and accounting services; 36 Table of Contents other selling and marketing related costs, such as expenses incurred in connection with travel and communications; and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. Changes in SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in sales volume, as higher volumes enable us to spread the fixed portion of our selling, marketing, and administrative expense over higher revenue (e.g. expenses relating to our sales and marketing personnel can fluctuate due to prolonged trends in sales volume, while expenses relating to administrative personnel generally do not increase or decrease directly with changes in sales volume); price reductions provided to our customers; changes in the mix of products we sell, as some products may require more customer support and sales effort than others; changes in our customer base, as new customers may require different levels of sales and marketing attention; new product launches in existing and new markets, as these launches typically involve a more intense sales and marketing activity before they are integrated into customer applications and systems; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and acquisitions and divestitures - acquired and divested businesses may require different levels of SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue than our core business. Depreciation expense Depreciation expense includes depreciation of PP&E, which includes assets held under capital lease, and amortization of leasehold improvements. Depreciation expense is included in either cost of revenue or SG&A expense depending on the use of the asset as a manufacturing or administrative asset. Depreciation expense will vary according to the age of existing PP&E and the level of capital expenditures. Amortization expense We have recognized a significant amount of definite-lived intangible assets. Definite-lived, acquisition-related intangible assets are amortized on an economic-benefit basis according to the useful lives of the assets, or on a straight-line basis if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined. The amount of amortization expense related to definite-lived intangible assets depends on the amount and timing of intangible assets acquired and where previously acquired intangible assets are in their estimated life-cycle. In general, the economic benefit of an intangible asset is concentrated towards the beginning of that intangible asset's useful life. Restructuring and other charges, net Restructuring and other charges, net consists of severance, outplacement, other separation benefits, and facility exit and other costs. These charges may be incurred as part of an announced restructuring plan, or may be individual charges recorded related to acquired businesses or the termination of a limited number of employees that do not represent the initiation of a larger restructuring plan. Restructuring and other charges, net also includes the gain, net of transaction costs, from the sale of businesses. Amounts recognized in restructuring and other charges, net will vary according to the extent of our restructuring programs and other exit activities as well as the existence and frequency of divested businesses and any gains or losses resulting therefrom. Interest expense, net As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had gross outstanding indebtedness of $3,303.3 million and $3,312.5 million , respectively. Our senior notes accrue interest at a fixed rate. However, the term loan (the "Term Loan") provided by the eighth amendment (the "Eighth Amendment") to the credit agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") 37 Table of Contents and the $420.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") accrue interest at variable interest rates, which drives some of the variability in interest expense, net. Refer to Item 7A, "