Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOff-Balance Sheet Arrangements, for additional information. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and components subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition which affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality and other risks. We depend on third parties for certain transportation, warehousing and logistics services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be 21 Table of Contents unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. If one of our manufacturing facilities was to be shut down unexpectedly, or certain of our manufacturing operations within an otherwise operational facility were to cease production unexpectedly, our revenue and profit margins would be adversely affected. Such a disruption could be caused by a number of different events, including: maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; potential unrest or terrorist activity; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. In addition, approximately 99% of our products are manufactured at facilities located outside the United States. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets, such as China, Mexico, Bulgaria and Malaysia, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our low-cost position. Our international production facilities and operations could be particularly vulnerable to the effects of a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, especially in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. If any of these or other events were to result in a material disruption of our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements may be impaired. We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development. Our ability to generate revenue from products subject to customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer contracts provide for supplying a certain share of the customers requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) may be costly with no assurance of maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. We experience significant operating expenses in connection with maintaining our internal control environment and Section 404 compliance activities. In addition, if we are unable to efficiently maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operations may suffer and we may be unable to obtain an attestation on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm when required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Recent cost reduction actions, including the loss of experienced finance and administrative personnel, may adversely affect our ability to maintain effective internal controls. This, in turn, could have a materially adverse impact on trading prices for our securities and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. 22 Table of Contents Export of our products are subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations, ITAR and the sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue. We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety and governmental regulations or concerns. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with all of these requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may soon require us to report on "conflict minerals" used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. We have made and may be required in the future to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and/or settle these claims will not be material. Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for environmental and safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing U.S. federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy and energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and safety products which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The price charged for products, services and financing among our companies could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liability, interest and/or penalties. Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us. We have significant unfunded benefit obligations with respect to our defined benefit and other post-retirement benefit plans. We provide various retirement plans for employees, including defined benefit, defined contribution and retiree healthcare benefit plans. As of December 31, 2011 , we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of approximately $21.5 million representing the unfunded benefit obligations of the defined benefit and retiree healthcare plans. We have previously experienced declines in interest rates and pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the 23 Table of Contents market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially deteriorate the funded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2012 and beyond. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We fund certain of our benefit obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. As a result, we are subject to increased cash outlays and costs due to, among other factors, rising healthcare costs. Increases in the expected cost of health care beyond current assumptions could increase actuarially determined liabilities and related expenses along with future cash outlays. Our assumptions used to calculate pension and healthcare obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While our management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect our pension and healthcare obligations and future expense. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments which would reduce our earnings. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including tradenames. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2011 , or 72% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2011 , or 51% of our total assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value on the respective dates of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, unexpected significant or planned changes in use of assets and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income which may impact our ability to raise capital. During 2009, we recorded impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets associated with our Interconnection reporting unit totaling $19.9 million. No impairment charges were required during fiscal years 2011 or 2010 . Should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize additional goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including our Senior Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0:1.0 at the conclusion of certain periods when outstanding loans and letters of credit that are not cash collateralized for the full face amount thereof exceed 10% of the commitments under our revolving credit facility. In addition, STBV and its restricted subsidiaries are required to satisfy this covenant, on a pro forma basis, in connection with any new borrowings (including any letter of credit issuances) under our revolving credit facility as of the time of such borrowings. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes require us to comply with various operational and other covenants. As of December 31, 2011, we were not subject to the financial covenant. If we experienced an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which in turn would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default. 24 Table of Contents If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and prevent us from making payments on our Senior Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event. In the future, we may not secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business or to exploit opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are outside our control, including the future development of the markets in which we participate. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional debt or equity securities or obtain other debt financing. The incurrence of debt would result in increased expenses and could include covenants that would further restrict our operations. If the credit markets remain tight, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have reported significant net losses for fiscal 2007, 2008, and 2009 and may not sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. We incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with the 2006 Acquisition and the subsequent acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax and, as a result, our interest expense has been substantial for periods following the 2006 Acquisition. Due, in part, to this significant interest expense and the amortization of intangible assets also related to these acquisitions, we have reported net losses of $27.7 million, $134.5 million and $252.5 million, for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For fiscal years 2011 and 2010 , we reported net income of $6.5 million and $130.1 million , respectively. Due to the significant interest expense associated with the remaining indebtedness and the continued amortization of intangible assets, we cannot assure you that we will sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. We are a Netherlands public limited liability company and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to realize in the United States on any judgment against us including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and the Netherlands with respect to legal judgments, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law. To date, we are aware of only one case in which a Dutch court has considered whether such a foreign judgment would be enforced in the Netherlands. In that case, a U.S. court entered a default judgment against the defendant, a Netherlands resident, in a lawsuit involving a breach of contract claim. The defendant sought to relitigate the claim in the Netherlands. The Dutch lower court ruled that the criteria discussed above were satisfied with respect to the U.S. judgment, as a result of which the Dutch court granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws. Shareholders rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may 25 Table of Contents not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. It is anticipated that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in the Netherlands. In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a companys shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, applicable exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. We are a controlled company under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a group is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of such exchange, including the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors. As of December 31, 2011, our principal shareholder, SCA, owns approximately 51% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We will continue to rely on this exemption to the extent it is applicable, and therefore we may not have a majority of independent directors, nor will our nominating and governance or compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not deemed controlled companies. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our ordinary shares, and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase them. The IPO of our ordinary shares was completed in March 2010 at a price of $18.00 per share and secondary public offerings were completed in November 2010 and February 2011 at a price of $24.10 and $33.15 per share, respectively. There has been a public market for our ordinary shares for only a relatively short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for our ordinary shares may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our ordinary shares. An inactive market may also impair a shareholders ability to sell any of our ordinary shares that he or she purchases. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly and may be adversely affected by broad market and industry factors, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our principal shareholder continues to have control over us which could limit our other shareholders ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. As of December 31, 2011, our principal shareholder, SCA, owns approximately 51% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This entity is indirectly controlled by investment funds advised or managed by the principals of Bain Capital and, pursuant to agreements among all of its existing shareholders, Bain Capital has the right to appoint all of its directors, subject to applicable law. As a result, this shareholder would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from our other shareholders and may vote in a way with which our other shareholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of our sale and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall. If our existing majority shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities. 26 Table of Contents Certain natural disasters, such as coastal flooding, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, may negatively impact our business. Natural disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and flooding in Thailand during 2011, could negatively impact our business by either damaging or destroying our production facilities, the production facilities of our suppliers or customers or the production facilities of our customers' suppliers, as well as logistics facilities and systems needed to transport our products. If coastal flooding, an earthquake, a volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could materially disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would adversely impact our business. Even if our manufacturing facilities are not directly damaged, a natural disaster may result in disruptions in distribution or supply channels. The impact of such occurrences depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be significant, as some of our factories are located in islands with known earthquake fault zones, including our Japanese facilities, or flood or hurricane risk zones, including facilities in China and the Dominican Republic. We cannot accurately predict the impact on our business or results of operations of natural disasters. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We occupy 10 principal manufacturing facilities and business centers totaling approximately 2,336,000 square feet, with the majority devoted to research, development and engineering, manufacturing and assembly. Of our principal facilities, approximately 1,428,000 square feet are owned and approximately 908,000 square feet are occupied under leases. We consider our manufacturing facilities sufficient to meet our current operational requirements. We lease approximately 433,000 square feet for our U.S. headquarters in Attleboro, Massachusetts. The table below lists the location of our principal executive and operating facilities. A significant portion of our owned properties and equipment is subject to a lien under our senior secured credit facilities. Refer to Note 8, "Debt", of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information on our senior secured credit facilities. Location Operating Segment Owned or Leased Approximate Square Footage Attleboro, Massachusetts Sensors and Controls Leased 433,000 Aguascalientes, Mexico Sensors and Controls Owned 454,000 Almelo, Netherlands Sensors and Controls Owned 188,000 Oyama, Japan Sensors and Controls Owned 75,000 Jincheon, South Korea Controls Owned 134,000 Baoying, China Controls Owned 440,000 Changzhou, China Sensors and Controls Leased 316,000 Subang Jaya, Malaysia Sensors Leased 114,000 Haina, Dominican Republic Sensors and Controls Leased 45,000 Botevgard, Bulgaria Sensors Owned 137,000 Leases covering our currently occupied principal leased facilities expire at varying dates within the next 14 years. We anticipate no difficulty in retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy or replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities. An increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. We believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required, however, if we are unable to acquire, integrate and move into production the facilities, equipment and personnel necessary to meet such increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial performance may suffer materially. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are regularly involved in a number of claims and litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. Most of our litigation matters are third-party claims for property damage allegedly caused by our products, but some involve allegations of personal injury or wrongful death. From time to time, we are also involved in disagreement with vendors and customers. We 27 Table of Contents believe that the ultimate resolution of the current litigation matters that are pending against us will not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Information on other legal proceedings is included in Note 14, "Commitments and Contingencies", of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Whirlpool Recall Litigation: We were involved in litigation relating to certain control products that TI sold between 2000 and 2004 to Whirlpool Corporation (Whirlpool). The control products were incorporated into the compressors of certain refrigerators in a number of Whirlpool brands, including Maytag, Jenn-Air, Amana, Admiral, Magic Chef, Performa by Maytag, and Crosley. Whirlpool contends that the control products were defective because they allegedly fail at excessive rates, and have allegedly caused property damage, including fires. During fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we paid Whirlpool for certain costs associated with third-party claims and other external engineering costs in amounts that did not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. During 2009, Whirlpool, in conjunction with the Consumer Product Safety Commission announced voluntary recalls of approximately 1.8 million refrigerators. On January 28, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation, as well as its subsidiaries Whirlpool SA and Maytag Corporation, filed a lawsuit against TI and our subsidiary, Sensata Technologies Inc., and we, along with TI, subsequently filed a cross claim for indemnification against Empresa Braseila de Compressores, S.A., n/k/a Whirlpool SA, and Embraco North America, Inc., together Embraco. The lawsuit was in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, under the name Whirlpool Corp. et al. v. Sensata Technologies, Inc. et al. , Docket No. 2009-L-001022. In January 2009, TI elected under the Acquisition Agreement to become the controlling party for this lawsuit and has managed and defended the litigation on behalf of both parties. In total, we believe that Whirlpool was seeking $550 million in damages plus unspecified amounts of exemplary damages. Trial began in October 2011, but concluded with the parties entering into a settlement agreement dated October 24, 2011. The court subsequently entered a dismissal order on October 26, 2011. As it concerns us, the lawsuit was settled for an amount consistent with our existing reserve of $5.9 million for this matter and did not have an effect on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. While the agreement between the parties provides for sharing of certain possible future liabilities, if any, we do not believe that such losses are probable at this time. The Internal Revenue Code requires that companies disclose in their Form 10-K whether they have been required to pay penalties to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for certain transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose. We have not been required to pay any such penalties. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS (REMOVED AND RESERVED) 28 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our ordinary shares have traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol ST since March 11, 2010. Prior to that time, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sales prices per share of our ordinary shares, as reported by the NYSE, for the periods indicated. Price Range High Low 2010 Quarter ended March 31, 2010 (1) $ 19.00 $ 17.12 Quarter ended June 30, 2010 $ 21.12 $ 15.30 Quarter ended September 30, 2010 $ 20.12 $ 15.25 Quarter ended December 31, 2010 $ 31.05 $ 19.43 2011 Quarter ended March 31, 2011 $ 34.73 $ 29.79 Quarter ended June 30, 2011 $ 37.66 $ 32.92 Quarter ended September 30, 2011 $ 39.25 $ 26.46 Quarter ended December 31, 2011 $ 31.74 $ 25.20 __________________ (1) Our ordinary shares began trading on March 11, 2010. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return of our ordinary shares since we began trading on the NYSE on March 11, 2010, to the total returns since that date on the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Industrial Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our ordinary shares and each index was $100 on March 11, 2010. Cumulative Value of $100 Investment from March 11, 2010 3/31/2010 6/30/2010 9/30/2010 12/31/2010 3/31/2011 6/30/2011 9/30/2011 12/31/2011 Sensata $ 97.08 $ 86.43 $ 106.81 $ 162.76 $ 187.73 $ 203.51 $ 143.03 $ 142.05 S&P 500 $ 101.72 $ 90.10 $ 100.28 $ 111.06 $ 117.64 $ 117.75 $ 101.42 $ 113.41 S&P 500 Industrial $ 104.30 $ 91.46 $ 104.54 $ 116.89 $ 127.12 $ 126.28 $ 99.73 $ 116.20 29 Table of Contents The information in the graph and table above is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The share price performance shown on the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future price performance. Stockholders As of January 15, 2012, there were 15 holders of record of our ordinary shares. Dividends We have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares, and we currently do not plan to declare any such dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In that regard, our wholly-owned subsidiary, STBV, is limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to its immediate parent company and, ultimately, to us. Under Dutch law, we may only pay dividends out of profits as shown in our adopted annual accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS. We will only be able to declare and pay dividends to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. Subject to these limitations, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our shareholders and board of directors. Refer to Note 8, "Debt" of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information on our dividend restrictions. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the years ended December 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2009 , 2008 and 2007 from audited consolidated financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information included in this five-year financial summary has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. You should read the following information in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. During 2011 , we made a change to an accounting principle which is discussed in detail in Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies". As a result, historical numbers have been adjusted to retrospectively reflect this change. 30 Table of Contents Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. (consolidated) For the year ended December 31, (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 1,826,945 $ 1,540,079 $ 1,134,944 $ 1,422,655 $ 1,403,254 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 1,166,842 948,070 742,080 951,763 944,765 Research and development 44,597 24,664 16,796 38,256 33,891 Selling, general and administrative (a) 164,790 194,106 126,545 165,970 165,987 Amortization of intangible assets and capitalized software 141,575 144,514 153,081 148,762 131,064 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 19,867 13,173 Restructuring 15,012 (138 ) 18,086 24,124 5,166 Total operating costs and expenses 1,532,816 1,311,216 1,076,455 1,342,048 1,280,873 Profit from operations 294,129 228,863 58,489 80,607 122,381 Interest expense (99,557 ) (105,416 ) (149,766 ) (197,797 ) (189,414 ) Interest income 813 1,020 573 1,503 2,574 Currency translation (loss)/gain and other, net (b) (120,050 ) 45,388 107,695 55,467 (105,449 ) Income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 75,335 169,855 16,991 (60,220 ) (169,908 ) Provision for income taxes 68,861 39,805 44,277 54,229 64,329 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 6,474 130,050 (27,286 ) (114,449 ) (234,237 ) Loss from discontinued operations (395 ) (20,082 ) (18,260 ) Net income/(loss) $ 6,474 $ 130,050 $ (27,681 ) $ (134,531 ) $ (252,497 ) Net income/(loss) per sharebasic: Continuing operations $ 0.04 $ 0.78 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.79 ) $ (1.62 ) Discontinued operations (0.00 ) (0.14 ) (0.13 ) Net income/(loss) per sharebasic $ 0.04 $ 0.78 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.93 ) $ (1.75 ) Net income/(loss) per sharediluted: Continuing operations $ 0.04 $ 0.75 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.79 ) $ (1.62 ) Discontinued operations (0.00 ) (0.14 ) (0.13 ) Net income/(loss) per sharediluted $ 0.04 $ 0.75 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.93 ) $ (1.75 ) Weightedaverage ordinary shares outstandingbasic 175,307 166,278 144,057 144,066 144,054 Weighted-average ordinary shares outstandingdiluted 181,212 172,946 144,057 144,066 144,054 Other Financial Data: Net cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 305,867 $ 300,046 $ 187,577 $ 47,481 $ 155,278 Investing activities (554,458 ) (52,548 ) (15,077 ) (38,713 ) (355,710 ) Financing activities (152,944 ) 97,696 (101,748 ) 8,891 175,736 Capital expenditures 89,807 52,912 14,959 40,963 66,701 31 Table of Contents 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31): Cash and cash equivalents $ 92,127 $ 493,662 $ 148,468 $ 77,716 $ 60,057 Working capital (c) 313,914 609,328 245,445 15,663 161,418 Total assets 3,456,651 3,387,997 3,166,870 3,303,381 3,555,508 Total debt, including capital lease and other financing obligations 1,835,710 1,889,693 2,300,826 2,511,187 2,562,480 Total shareholders equity 1,044,951 1,007,781 387,158 405,332 566,310 __________________ (a) For fiscal year 2010, selling, general and administrative expense includes $18.9 million recorded as a cumulative catch-up adjustment for previously unrecognized compensation expense associated with the Tranche 2 and 3 option awards under the First Amended and Restated Sensata Technologies Holding B.V. 2006 Management Option Plan and the related modification thereof, and $22.4 million in fees related to the termination of the advisory agreement with the Sponsors at their option. Refer to Note 11, Share-Based Payment Plans and Note 13, Related Party Transactions of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information. (b) Currency translation (loss)/gain and other, net for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes (losses)/gains of $(44.0) million, $(23.5) million, $120.1 million and $15.0 million, respectively, recognized on repurchases of debt, as well as currency translation gains/(losses) associated with the Euro-denominated debt of $(60.1) million, $72.8 million, $(13.6) million and $53.2 million, respectively. Currency translation (loss)/gain and other, net for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily includes currency translation loss associated with the Euro-denominated debt of $111.9 million. (c) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities. Working capital amounts for 2007 through 2009 have not been recast to include assets designated as held for sale during 2010. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, and our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statements in this discussion regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding our future performance, liquidity and capital resources and other non-historical statements in this discussion are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Sensata, a global industrial technology company, is a leader in the development, manufacture and sale of sensors and controls. We produce a wide range of customized, innovative sensors and controls for mission-critical applications such as thermal circuit breakers in aircraft, pressure sensors in automotive systems, and bimetal current and temperature control devices in electric motors. We believe that we are one of the largest suppliers of sensors and controls in the majority of the key applications in which we compete and that we have developed our strong market position due to our long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise, product performance and quality and competitive cost structure. We compete in growing global market segments driven by demand for products that are safe, energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly. In addition, our long-standing position in emerging markets, including our greater than 15-year presence in China, further enhances our growth prospects. We deliver a strong value proposition to our customers by leveraging an innovative portfolio of core technologies and manufacturing at high volumes in low-cost locations such as China, Mexico, Malaysia, Bulgaria and the Dominican Republic. History We have a history of innovation dating back to our origins. We operated as a part of Texas Instruments from 1959 until we were acquired in 2006, (the "2006 Acquisition"). Since then, we have expanded our operations in part through the acquisitions of the First Technology Automotive and Special Products (First Technology Automotive) business in December 32 Table of Contents 2006, Airpax Holdings, Inc. (Airpax) in July 2007, the Magnetic Speed and Position business ("MSP") in January 2011 and the High Temperature Sensing business ("HTS") in August 2011. Prior to our IPO in March 2010, we were a direct, 99% owned, subsidiary of Sensata Investment Company S.C.A. (SCA), a Luxembourg company, which is owned by investment funds or vehicles advised or managed by Bain Capital Partners, LLC (Bain Capital), its co-investors (Bain Capital and its co-investors are collectively referred to as the Sponsors) and certain members of our senior management. As of December 31, 2011, SCA owns 51% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We conduct our operations through subsidiary companies which operate business and product development centers in the United States ("U.S."), the Netherlands, Belgium, China and Japan; and manufacturing operations in China, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Bulgaria and the U.S. We organize operations into the sensors and control businesses. Selected Segment Information We manage our sensors and controls businesses separately and report their results of operations as two segments for accounting purposes. Set forth below is selected information for each of these business segments for each of the periods presented. Amounts and percentages in the tables below have been calculated based on unrounded numbers. Accordingly, certain amounts may not add due to the effect of rounding. The following table presents net revenue by segment and segment operating income for the following periods: For the year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Net revenue Sensors segment $ 1,292.8 $ 969.6 $ 685.1 Controls segment 534.1 570.5 449.9 Total $ 1,826.9 $ 1,540.1 $ 1,134.9 Segment operating income Sensors segment $ 389.9 $ 327.1 $ 201.3 Controls segment 175.8 193.3 133.9 Total $ 565.7 $ 520.4 $ 335.2 The following table presents net revenue by segment as a percentage of total net revenue and segment operating income as a percentage of segment net revenue for the following periods: For the year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net revenue Sensors segment 70.8 % 63.0 % 60.4 % Controls segment 29.2 37.0 39.6 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Segment operating income Sensors segment 30.2 % 33.7 % 29.4 % Controls segment 32.9 % 33.9 % 29.8 % For a reconciliation of total segment operating income to profit from operations, refer to Note 19, "Segment Reporting", of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results The following discussion sets forth certain components of our statements of operations as well as factors that impact 33 Table of Contents those components. Net revenue We generate revenue from the sale of sensors and controls products across all major geographic areas. Our net revenue from product sales includes total sales less estimates of returns for product quality reasons and for price allowances. Price allowances include discounts for prompt payment as well as volume-based incentives. Because we sell our products to end-users in a wide range of industries and geographies, demand for our products is generally driven more by the level of general economic activity rather than conditions in one particular industry or geographic region. Our overall net revenue is generally impacted by the following factors: fluctuations in overall economic activity within the geographic markets in which we operate; underlying growth in one or more of our core end-markets, either worldwide or in particular geographies in which we operate; the number of sensors and/or controls used within existing applications, or the development of new applications requiring sensors and/or controls; the mix of products sold, including the proportion of new or upgraded products and their pricing relative to existing products; changes in product sales prices (including quantity discounts, rebates and cash discounts for prompt payment); changes in the level of competition faced by our products, including the launch of new products by competitors; our ability to successfully develop and launch new products and applications; and fluctuations in exchange rates. While the factors described above impact net revenue in each of our operating segments, the impact of these factors on our operating segments can differ, as described below. For more information about risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. Cost of revenue We manufacture the majority of our products and subcontract only a limited number of products to third parties. As such, our cost of revenue consists principally of the following: Production Materials Costs. We purchase much of the materials used in production on a global lowest-cost basis, but we are still impacted by global and local market conditions. A portion of our production materials contains metals, such as copper, nickel and aluminum, and precious metals, such as gold, silver, platinum and palladium, and the costs of these materials may vary with underlying metals pricing. We enter into forward contracts to hedge a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices associated with certain of our commodities. The terms of these contracts fix the price at a future date for various notional amounts associated with these commodities. Employee Costs. These employee costs include the salary costs and benefit charges for employees involved in our manufacturing operations. These costs generally increase on an aggregate basis as sales and production volumes increase, and may decline as a percent of net revenue as a result of economies of scale associated with higher production volumes. We rely heavily on contract workers in certain geographies. Sustaining Engineering Activity costs. These costs relate to modifications of existing products for use by new customers in familiar applications. Other. Our remaining cost of revenue consists of: customer-related development costs; depreciation of fixed assets; freight costs; warehousing expenses; purchasing costs; and 34 Table of Contents other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses for energy consumption. The main factors that influence our cost of revenue as a percent of net revenue include: production volumesproduction costs are capitalized in inventory based on normal production volumes. As revenue increases the fixed portion of these costs do not; transfer of production to our lower cost production facilities; the implementation of cost control measures aimed at improving productivity, including reduction of fixed production costs, refinements in inventory management and the coordination of purchasing within each subsidiary and at the business level; product lifecycles, as we typically incur higher cost of revenue associated with manufacturing over-capacity during the initial stages of product launches and when we are phasing out discontinued products; the increase in the carrying value of the inventory that was adjusted to fair value as a result of the application of purchase accounting associated with acquisitions; depreciation expense, including amounts arising from the adjustment of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) to fair value associated with acquisitions; and changes in the price of raw materials, including certain metals. Research and development Research and development (R&D) expenses consist of costs related to direct product design, development and process engineering. The level of R&D expense is related to the number of products in development, the stage of development process, the complexity of the underlying technology, the potential scale of the product upon successful commercialization and the level of our exploratory research. We conduct such activities in areas we believe will accelerate our longer term net revenue growth. Our basic technologies have been developed through a combination of internal development and third-party efforts (often by parties with whom we have joint development relationships). Our development expense is typically associated with: engineering core technology platforms to specific applications; and improving functionality of existing products. Costs related to modifications of existing products for use by new customers in familiar applications is accounted for in cost of revenue and not included in R&D expense. Selling, general and administrative Our Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense consists of all expenditures incurred in connection with the sales and marketing of our products, as well as administrative overhead costs, including: salary and benefit costs for sales personnel and administrative staff, including share-based compensation expense. Expenses relating to our sales personnel generally increase or decrease principally with changes in sales volume due to the need to increase or decrease sales personnel to meet changes in demand. Expenses relating to administrative personnel generally do not increase or decrease directly with changes in sales volume; expense related to the use and maintenance of administrative offices, including depreciation expense; other administrative expense, including expense relating to logistics, information systems and legal and accounting services; general advertising expense; other selling expenses, such as expenses incurred in connection with travel and communications; and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. 35 Table of Contents Changes in SG&A expense as a percent of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in sales volume, as higher volumes enable us to spread the fixed portion of our administrative expense over higher revenue; changes in the mix of products we sell, as some products may require more customer support and sales effort than others; changes in our customer base, as new customers may require different levels of sales and marketing attention; new product launches in existing and new markets, as these launches typically involve a more intense sales activity before they are integrated into customer applications; customer credit issues requiring increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts; and volume and timing of acquisitions. Amortization of intangible assets and capitalized software Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortized on an economic benefit basis according to the useful lives of the assets. Capitalized software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the license. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis unless events or circumstances occur which trigger the need for an earlier impairment review. No impairment charges were required during 2011 and 2010 . For the year ended December 31, 2009 , we recorded an impairment charge of $19.9 million , associated with the Interconnection reporting unit. We believed that the global economic crisis, economic conditions within the semiconductor end-market and an increase in the competitive landscape surrounding suppliers to the semiconductor end-market were all factors that led to this impairment charge. Our revenue and earnings forecasts depend on many factors, including our ability to project customer spending, particularly within the semiconductor industry. Changes in the level of spending in the industry and/or by our customers could result in a change to our forecasts, which, in turn, could result in a future impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. See the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis for more discussion of the key assumptions that are used in the determination of fair value of our reporting units. Restructuring Restructuring costs consist of severance, outplacement, other separation benefits, pension settlement and curtailment losses and facility and other exit costs. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded restructuring charges of $15.0 million. These charges were primarily due to a restructuring plan announced in 2011. Refer to Note 17, Restructuring Costs of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more discussion of this plan. Depreciation expense PP&E are stated at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. PP&E acquired through the 2006 Acquisition, the acquisitions of the First Technology Automotive, Airpax, MSP and HTS businesses were stepped-up to fair value on the date of the respective business acquisition resulting in a new cost basis for accounting purposes. The amount of the adjustment to the cost basis of these assets as a result of the 2006 Acquisition, the First Technology Automotive acquisition, the Airpax acquisition, the MSP acquisition and the HTS acquisition totaled $57.8 million, $2.2 million, $5.1 million, $12.4 million and $9.6 million, respectively. Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the improvements. Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives or the period of the related lease. 36 Table of Contents Interest expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense on institutional borrowings, interest rate derivative instruments and capital lease and other financing obligations. Interest expense, net also includes the amortization of deferred financing costs. Currency translation (loss)/gain and other, net Currency translation (loss)/gain and other, net includes gains and losses recognized on currency translation, gains and losses recognized on our derivatives used to hedge commodity prices and foreign currency exposures, gains and losses on the repurchases of debt and other. We continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue in markets outside of the U.S., primarily Europe and Asia. For financial reporting purposes, the functional currency of all our subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. At the date the transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar are adjusted to the U.S. dollar using the current exchange rate with gains or losses recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Provision for income taxes We and our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. While the extent of our future tax liability is uncertain, the impact of purchase accounting for past and future acquisitions, changes to debt and equity capitalization of our subsidiaries and the realignment of the functions performed and risks assumed by the various subsidiaries are among the factors that will determine the future book and taxable income of the respective subsidiary and Sensata as a whole. Loss from discontinued operations In December 2008, we announced our intention to discontinue and sell our automotive vision sensing business (Vision business). In connection with this announcement, we reclassified to discontinued operations the results from operations of the Vision business and recognized a loss associated with measuring the net assets of the Vision business at fair value less cost to sell and other exit costs. Effects of Acquisitions and Other Transactions Shareholders Equity In March 2010, we completed an IPO of our ordinary shares in which we sold 26,315,789 ordinary shares and our existing shareholders and certain employees sold 5,284,211 ordinary shares at a public offering price of $18.00 per share. The net proceeds to us of the IPO, excluding $2.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, totaled approximately $433.5 million after deducting the underwriters discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In April 2010, we announced that the underwriters of our IPO exercised their option to purchase an additional 4,740,000 ordinary shares from selling shareholders at a price of $18.00 per share, which included 353,465 ordinary shares obtained by certain selling shareholders through the exercise of stock options to purchase ordinary shares. The sale of the additional ordinary shares closed in April 2010. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the additional ordinary shares, other than the proceeds from the exercise of the aforementioned stock options which totaled $2.5 million. In November 2010, we completed a secondary public offering of our ordinary shares in which our existing shareholders and certain employees sold 23,000,000 ordinary shares at a public offering price of $24.10 per share. The net proceeds to us of this secondary public offering were limited to the proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which totaled $3.7 million. In February 2011, we completed a secondary public offering of our ordinary shares in which our existing shareholders and certain employees sold 20,000,000 ordinary shares at a public offering price of $33.15 per share. The net proceeds to us of this secondary public offering were limited to the proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which totaled $2.1 million. In March 2011, we announced that the underwriters of our secondary offering exercised their option to purchase an additional 3,000,000 ordinary shares from selling shareholders at a price of $33.15 per share through the exercise of stock options to purchase ordinary shares. The sale of the additional ordinary shares closed in March 2011. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the additional ordinary shares, other than the proceeds from the exercise of the aforementioned stock options which totaled $0.3 million. 37 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, SCA owns 51% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Our authorized share capital consists of 400,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 per share, of which 176,466,849 ordinary shares were issued and 176,454,876 were outstanding as of December 31, 2011 . This excludes 389,785 unvested restricted shares. We also have authorized 400,000,000 preference shares with a nominal value of 0.01 per share, none of which are outstanding. At December 31, 2011 , there were 398,845 options available for grant under the First Amended and Restated Sensata Technologies Holding B.V. 2006 Management Option Plan and 3,629,140 options available for grant under the Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, we had 8,024,913 ordinary shares available for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options, and 490,052 ordinary shares available for issuance under the Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Purchase Accounting We accounted for the 2006 Acquisition, the acquisitions of First Technology Automotive, Airpax, MSP and HTS using the purchase method of accounting. As a result, the purchase prices for each of these transactions have been allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values as of the date of each acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets and liabilities was assigned to goodwill, which is not amortized for accounting purposes, but is subject to testing for impairment at least annually. The application of purchase accounting resulted in an increase in amortization and depreciation expense in the periods subsequent to the acquisitions relating to our acquired intangible assets and PP&E. In addition to the increase in the carrying value of PP&E, we extended the remaining depreciable lives of PP&E to reflect the estimated remaining useful lives for purposes of calculating periodic depreciation. We also adjusted the value of the inventory to fair value, increasing the costs and expenses recognized upon the sale of this acquired inventory. On January 28, 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Automotive on Board business from Honeywell International Inc. for approximately $145.3 million in cash, net of cash acquired. On August 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Sensor-NITE Group Companies for approximately $315.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and subject to a working capital adjustment and certain other items. As of the date of this filing, we have not yet completed our allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Increased Leverage We are a highly-leveraged company and our interest expense increased significantly in the periods following the consummation of the 2006 Acquisition and the acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax. While interest expense has declined in the past three years, it is still a significant portion of our results of operations. A portion of our debt has a variable interest rate. We have utilized interest rate swaps, interest rate collars and interest rate caps to hedge the effect of variable interest rates. Refer to Item 7A,