Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (the "MD&A") included elsewhere in this Report, these shortages have impacted our margins in fiscal year 2021, and we believe that these impacts will continue throughout fiscal year 2022. If the impacts of these shortages are more severe than we currently expect, it could result in further deterioration of our results, potentially for a longer period than currently anticipated. Seasonality Because of the diverse global nature of the markets in which we operate, our net revenue is only moderately impacted by seasonality. Sensing Solutions experiences some seasonality, specifically in its air conditioning and refrigeration products, which tend to peak in the first two quarters of the year as inventories are built up for spring and summer sales. In addition, Performance Sensing net revenue tends to be weaker in the third quarter of the year as automotive OEMs retool production lines for the coming model year. Our Sensata Insights business within Performance Sensing tends to peak in the last quarter of the calendar year as customers exhaust their annual capital budgets. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 21,300 employees, of whom approximately 9% were located in the U.S. and approximately 56% of whom were female. Approximately 120 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, in various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. We also engage contract workers in multiple locations, primarily to cost-effectively manage variations in manufacturing volume, but also to perform engineering and other general services. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 2,200 contract workers on a worldwide basis. Our employees, whom we refer to as Team Sensata, are responsible for upholding our purpose to help our customers and partners safely deliver a safer, cleaner, more efficient, more electrified, and increasingly more connected world and embody our values in all aspects of daily work. Our corporate values are the essence of our identity, provide a level-set foundation, and are a key way we are able to improve our culture. Our values are passion, excellence, integrity, flexibility, and working together towards common goals, which we refer to as "OneSensata." In September 2021, we published our first Sustainability Report, which shares our environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") strategies, performance, and goals that support our vision of creating a safer, cleaner, more efficient, more electrified, and connected world. One of our key areas of prioritization as identified in the Sustainability Report relates to empowering our workforce, through promoting a culture that values inclusion and diversity and prioritizes employee well-being and safety, while supporting our communities and suppliers. A summary of additional content of the Sustainability report can be found in Sustainability Report included elsewhere in this Item 1: Business and the full report can be found on our website at www.sensata.com/sustainability . Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") We believe in treating all people with respect and dignity. We strive to create and foster a supportive and understanding environment in which all individuals realize their maximum potential within Sensata, regardless of their differences. Each employee has the personal responsibility to maintain a respectful and inclusive workplace. We believe that each person brings unique and valuable skills and perspectives due to their varying backgrounds and experiences. An inclusive culture is fundamental to innovation and problem-solving. It is the policy and practice of Sensata to hire and employ individuals without regard to age, color, disability, ethnicity, family or marital status, gender identity or expression, language, national origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, and veteran status or other characteristics that make our employees unique. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment 14 Table of Contents including recruitment and selection; compensation and benefits; professional development and training; promotions; transfers; social and recreational programs; reductions in force; terminations, and the ongoing development of a work environment built on the premise of gender and diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have published our goals for diversity in our Sustainability Report, issued in September 2021, as discussed in Sustainability Report included elsewhere in this Item 1: Business . Our employee resource groups (ERGs) are company-sponsored groups of employees that support Sensatas inclusion, diversity, and equity goals and objectives, by fostering awareness, respect, and inclusion within the workplace. They support our commitment to creating and sustaining a diverse workforce, a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive, encourage different perspectives, thoughts, ideas and create a sense of community. Our ERGs exist to benefit and advance their group members by working strategically, both internally and externally. They also help contribute to Sensata's market success. In addition, our senior leadership benefits from ERGs by providing: exposure to emerging and high potential talent; acquisition of cultural knowledge; a direct line of communication to employees who face challenges from not being a part of the workplace majority; development of diversity management skills which directly link to Sensatas success; and active contribution to the broader DEI strategy. As of December 31, 2021, we had eleven ERGs globally focused on the following areas gender equity, generational diversity, cross-cultural appreciation, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latinx, and Asian/ Asian-American & Pacific Islander heritage, and LGBTQIA+ Pride. Learning and Development We believe that in order to continue to be successful in executing on our business strategy, providing a broad range of learning and development programs and opportunities will continue to be important. In 2017, we launched our online global learning management system, "Sensata Learning," that enables employees to access instructor-led classroom, virtual classes, or self-paced lessons. As of December 31, 2021, we had delivered more than 67,000 hours of training spanning various required learning and professional development topics and many courses specifically on diversity, inclusion, and ethics. We have a robust talent and succession planning process and have established specialized programs to support the development of our talent pipeline for critical roles in management, engineering, and operations. On an annual basis, we conduct a leadership review process with our chief executive officer, our chief human resources officer, and our business and functional leaders. Social and Human Rights Matters We have policies related to our position on various social and human rights matters, including child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, health and safety, non-discrimination, and environmental matters. Each of these policies can be found on our website at www.sensata.com. Sensatas human rights expectations apply to all of our personnel, business partners, and other parties directly linked to our operations, products, or services. Sensata is committed to respecting the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (2011) and its principles within our operations and supply chains. Sensata is committed to responsible corporate practices in the area of human rights and working conditions and aligns with practices recommended by industry standards such as the Global Automotive Sustainability Practical Guidance and the RBA Code of Conduct, which incorporates the International Bill of Human Rights, namely the Universal Convention of Human Rights (1948), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols (1966). Sensata also adheres to the principles set forth in the fundamental International Labor Organization ("ILO") Conventions, namely the Forced Labor Convention (1930), the Minimum Age Convention (1973), the Worst Forms of Child Labor Convention (1999) and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998). The working conditions of our employees are, at minimum, in compliance with internationally recognized labor standards and the laws of the countries we operate in. When national law directly conflicts with international human rights standards or does not fully comply with them, Sensata will seek ways to respect internationally recognized human rights. Employee Engagement Our long-term success is dependent on hiring, retaining, training, rewarding, and engaging employees for the long-term. We strive to retain and engage employees by providing competitive pay and benefits packages and a challenging and rewarding work experience. We want our employees to feel connected to the business and company strategy, our purpose, and what we are doing to add value to them, our customers, and our investors. Our ability to create an environment where ideas are shared freely is fundamental to ensuring our employees reach their true potential, which grants us the ability to innovate. Each person brings unique value no matter their gender, race, age, education, or place of birth. We believe an inclusive culture is vital. 15 Table of Contents We focus our employee communications on continual engagement, providing them with updates and offerings, including education and awareness about their overall benefit offerings at Sensata. To remain competitive, we regularly review our benefit offerings with external advisers with deep industry expertise in risk insurance, health insurance, and other employee benefits for advice and market expertise. We are committed to providing comprehensive and competitive benefit packages that attract, retain, and enhance the well-being of our employees. Our benefits include an array of quality health and income protection benefits to protect employees and their familys health. Some benefits are provided automatically at no cost to employees while other benefits are shared between the employee and Sensata. The health, safety, and well-being of our employees are a high priority for us and an integral part of our values. We consider safety a core value that is embedded in the decisions we make across the company to protect our employees, business partners, and local communities. We consciously build a culture of safety by modeling the behaviors we want our employees to adopt. At Sensata, we also recognize the importance of supporting our employees health and well-being. Our goal is to provide comprehensive and competitive benefits that consider whole-person well-being by supporting their physical, financial, and emotional wellness. To do this, we incorporate a whole range of health and wellness issues that our employees may confront and provide targeted support accordingly toward the best possible outcomes. Ethics We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing the conduct of our personnel, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller, and persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is modified from time to time and is available on the investor relations page of our website at www.sensata.com under Corporate Governance. We have a three-part annual training covering the topics discussed in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on Sensata Learning, our online global learning management system. We hold an annual "Integrity Week," which focuses on integrity as a core value of the organization and for the key priority of "Operating Responsibility," as outlined in our Sustainability Report. By sharing best practices and stories from their professional journeys, various teams at Sensata illustrate how integrity is not just about doing the right thing but how it is intrinsic to delivering value and sustainability for our company, environment, and communities. We believe our management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our chief executive officer and business leaders average approximately 25 years of industry experience. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the industry. For discussion of the risks relating to the attraction and retention of management and executive management employees, see Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. Sustainability Report In September 2021, we published our first Sustainability Report, which shares our ESG strategies, performance, and goals that support our vision of creating a safer, cleaner, more efficient, more electrified, and increasingly more connected world. Our sustainability efforts focus on four key areas of prioritization against which we will measure progress: Empowering our workforce : We promote a culture that values inclusion and diversity and prioritizes employee well-being and safety, while supporting our communities and suppliers; Innovating for Sustainability : We develop products and technology solutions that help create a safer, cleaner, more efficient, more electrified, and increasingly more connected world; Protecting the Environment : We focus on building products that reduce environmental impact and improve technological efficiencies while optimizing and reducing our operational footprint through energy, water, and waste reduction; Operating Responsibly : We consider transparency and accountability as fundamental in everything that we do, guiding our approach to governance, risk management, and ESG. As described in the Sustainability Report, we conducted a materiality assessment to identify the ESG issues that were most important to our business and stakeholders. We identified the following key issues and set corresponding goals as follows: DEI : Our goal is to reach (1) 30% female representation in manager and above roles worldwide and (2) 25% racial/ethnically diverse representation in manager and above roles in the U.S. by 2026; 16 Table of Contents Energy and Emissions : Our goal is to achieve carbon neutrality in our operations by 2050 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 10% by 2026; Responsible Sourcing : Our goals in this area are by 2026 to (1) achieve 75% response rate on our responsible sourcing campaigns and (2) achieve 100% sourcing of conflict minerals and Cobalt from smelters that are conformant with the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process or equivalent standard. Environmental and Governmental Regulations Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, both domestic and foreign, including those governing air emissions, chemical usage, water discharges, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We are, however, not aware of any threatened or pending material environmental investigations, lawsuits, or claims involving us or our operations. Many of our products are governed by material content restrictions and reporting requirements, examples of which include: EU regulations, such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals ("REACH"), Restriction of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS"), and End of Life Vehicle ("ELV"); U.S. regulations, such as the conflict minerals requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and similar regulations in other countries. Further, numerous customers, across all end-markets, are requiring us to provide declarations of compliance or, in some cases, extra material content documentation as a requirement of doing business with them. We are subject to compliance with laws and regulations controlling the import and export of goods, services, software, and technical data. Certain of our products are subject to export regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate (Controlled Items). The export of many such Controlled Items requires a license from the applicable government agency. Licensing decisions are made based on type of product, its destination, end use, end user, the parties involved in the transaction, national security, and foreign policy. As a result, export license approvals are not guaranteed. We have a trade compliance team and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with import and export regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with such regulations could limit our ability to import or export raw material and finished goods. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change may limit or exclude existing or future business opportunities, require us to change technology, or incur expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental and governmental regulations and meeting customer requirements has increased our cost of doing business in a variety of ways and may continue to do so in the future. We do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures during fiscal year 2022 for environmental control facilities. We also do not believe that existing or pending legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords, whether related to environmental or other government regulations, are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect in the foreseeable future on our business or the markets we serve, nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position, or financial standing. Available Information We make available free of charge on our Internet website ( www.sensata.com ) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our website and the information contained or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents on, or accessible through, this website or our website are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for the SEC's website and our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should carefully consider these risks and all other information in this Report before investing in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Our business is also subject to general risks that affect many other companies. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, operations, liquidity, and financial condition. If actions taken by management to limit, monitor, or control enterprise risk exposures are not successful, our business and consolidated financial statements could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock and debt securities could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Business and Operational Risks We are subject to various risks related to public health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, which have had, and may in the future have, material and adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Any outbreaks of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments in countries where we operate could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. As has occurred with the COVID-19 pandemic, a global pandemic could cause significant disruption to the global economy, including in all of the regions in which we, our suppliers, distributors, business partners, and customers do business and in which our workforce is located. A global pandemic and efforts to manage it, including those by governmental authorities, could have significant impacts on global markets, and could have a significant, negative impact on our sales and operating results. Disruptions could include partial shutdowns of our facilities as mandated by government decree, government actions limiting our ability to adjust certain costs, significant travel restrictions, work-from-home orders, limited availability of our workforce, supplier constraints, supply chain interruptions, logistics challenges and limitations, and reduced demand from certain customers. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and could continue to have, these effects on the economy and our business. As of December 31, 2021, we were still experiencing lingering disruptions of these types. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business and financial results going forward will be dependent on future developments such as the length and severity of the crisis, the potential resurgence of the crisis, variant strains of the virus, vaccine availability and effectiveness, future government actions in response to the crisis and the overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and capital markets, among many other factors, all of which remain highly uncertain and unpredictable. This unpredictability could limit our ability to respond to future developments quickly. Additionally, the impacts described above and other impacts of a global pandemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic and responses to it, could substantially increase the risk to us from the other risks described in this Item 1A: Risk Factors . Our business is subject to numerous global risks, including regulatory, political, economic, governmental, and military concerns and instability. Our business, including our employees, customers, and suppliers, are located throughout the world. We employ approximately 91% of our workforce outside of the U.S. Our customers are located throughout the world, and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside of the U.S. Our subsidiaries located outside of the U.S. generated approximately 66% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2021, with approximately 23% in China, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, economic sanctions, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings. As a result, we are exposed to numerous global, regional, and local risks that could decrease revenue and/or increase expenses, and therefore decrease our profitability. Such risks may result from instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, and/or actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and include, without limitation: trade regulations, including customs, import, and export matters, tariffs, trade barriers, trade disputes, and economic sanctions; changes in local employment costs, laws, regulations, and conditions; difficulties with, and costs for, protecting our intellectual property; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; tax laws and regulatory changes, including examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, changes to the terms of income tax treaties, and difficulties in the tax-efficient repatriation of earnings generated or held in a number of jurisdictions; natural disasters; and instability in economic or political conditions; inflation; recession; actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; and the impact of each of the foregoing on our business operations, manufacturing, and supply chain. 18 Table of Contents Other risks are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions, and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations. In addition, a scarcity of resources or other hardships caused by a global pandemic may result in increased nationalism, protectionism and political tensions which may cause governments and/or other entities to take actions that may have a significant negative impact on the ability of us, our suppliers, and our customers to conduct business. We have sizable operations in China, including two principal manufacturing sites. Economic and political conditions in China have been and may continue to be volatile and uncertain, especially as the U.S. and China continue to discuss and have differences in trade policies, and the U.S. continues to add restrictions on exports of Controlled Items to China. In addition, the legal and regulatory system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Our operations and transactions with customers in China could continue to be adversely affected by increased tariffs and export restrictions and could be otherwise adversely affected by other changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, or interpretation of Chinese law. Adverse conditions in the industries upon which we are dependent, including the automotive industry, have had, and may in the future have, adverse effects on our business. We are dependent on market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. Periodic downturns in our customers industries could significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Much of our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Sales in our automotive end-markets accounted for approximately 54% of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2021. Declines in demand such as experienced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and other adverse developments like those we have seen in past years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to customer bankruptcies and increased demands on us for lower prices, could have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and recall claims that may be brought against us. We have been, and will continue to be, exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product safety and/or regulatory non-compliance. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranty when the product supplied did not perform as represented. The impact of the current global supply chain shortages includes various factors that could impact our actual or perceived liability due to quality issues, whether at a supplier or customer. Shortages of materials at our suppliers or customers could cause them to work longer production hours to meet demand, resulting in fatigue on manufacturing workers, delays in planned maintenance, and other factors that could impact the actual or perceived quality of our products. In addition, customers may be forced to assemble parts into the end product in an order not anticipated by design, or to assemble parts in a location without proper environmental controls (e.g. a parking lot), increasing the potential that our part fails through no fault of our own. While we would defend ourselves from warranty claims in these circumstances, there is no guarantee that we would prevail. As we continue to develop products containing complex information technology (IT) systems designed to support todays increasingly connected vehicles, these systems result in potential increases to our risks in product safety, regulatory compliance, product liability, warranty, and recall claims. In addition, the warranty period for certain electric vehicle components are generally eight to ten years, which increases our risk for warranty claims over the life of a product. 19 Table of Contents In addition, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material. We are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue and we may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing awards or for which we are currently engaged in development. Substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change; that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications before our competitors or in time to satisfy customer demands; the possibility that investment of significant time and resources will not be successful; the possibility that the marketplace does not accept our products or services; that we are unable to retain customers that adopt our new products or services; and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these efforts. Our ability to generate revenue from products pending customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce, as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer agreements provide for the supply of a certain share of the customers requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for a specific quantity of products. In some cases, we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes may be limited to increased pricing on those products that the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by our customers at all, or they may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs and price our products based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers. Increasing costs for, or limitations on the supply of or access to, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use a broad range of manufactured components, subassemblies, and raw materials in the manufacture of our products in both our Performance Sensing and Sensing Solutions segments, including those containing certain commodities (e.g. semiconductors, resins, and metals), which may experience significant volatility in their price and availability due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, including the impact of tariffs, trade barriers, trade disputes, export restrictions, economic sanctions, and global economic or political events including government actions, labor strikes, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and prevailing price levels. It is generally difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Therefore, a significant increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. However, the impact of the current global supply chain shortages, including production delays on a vast and varied number of products across industries and geographies and increased procurement and logistics costs, are unprecedented. Accordingly, we are actively working with our customers to share the inflationary burden of these factors. In addition, where possible, we are working to adjust our long-term supply agreements, strengthen our relationships with our suppliers, increase inventory on hand, increase visibility into long-term supply and demand, and accelerate the use of alternate materials to increase supply chain visibility. Despite these efforts, as discussed in the MD&A, these shortages have impacted our margins in fiscal year 2021, and we believe that these impacts will continue throughout fiscal year 2022. If the impacts of these shortages are more severe than we currently expect, it could result in further deterioration of our results, potentially for a longer period than currently anticipated. In addition, the impact of the current global supply chain shortages on one or more of our key suppliers could adversely impact our profitability. 20 Table of Contents We have entered into hedge arrangements for certain metals used in our products in an attempt to minimize commodity pricing volatility and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. In connection with the implementation of our corporate strategies, we face risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, the integration of acquired businesses, and the growth and development of these businesses. In pursuing our corporate strategy, we often acquire other businesses. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate acquisition targets, negotiate transactions on favorable terms, complete transactions, and successfully integrate them into our existing businesses. There can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated synergies or cost savings related to acquisitions, including, but not limited to, revenue growth and operational efficiencies, or that they will be achieved in our estimated timeframe. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope. Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness, and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, limiting our access to financing markets, and increasing the amount of service on our debt. The availability of debt to finance future acquisitions may be restricted, and our ability to make future acquisitions may be limited. Refer to separate risk factor for additional information related to risks regarding our level of indebtedness. In addition, many of the businesses that we acquire and develop will likely have significantly smaller scales of operations prior to the implementation of our growth strategy. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of these businesses, including improving, refining, or revising our systems and operational practices, and enlarging the scale and scope of the businesses, our business may be adversely affected. Other risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, integrating the acquired business into our systems and culture, recruiting professionals, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. External factors, such as compliance with new or revised regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business. Failure to manage these risks in the acquisition or development of new businesses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Restructuring our business or divesting some of our businesses or product lines in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In pursuing our corporate strategy, we continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products and occasionally dispose of or exit businesses and products. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate disposition targets, negotiate transactions on favorable terms, and complete transactions. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. We also may seek to restructure our business in the future by relocating operations, disposing of certain assets, or consolidating operations. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial condition, leverage, or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs have had, and may in the future have, adverse impacts on our business. A material labor disruption or work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing or business facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, work stoppages occur relatively frequently in the industries in which many of our customers operate, such as the transportation industry. If one or more of our larger customers were to experience a material work stoppage for any reason, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to reduce production levels or shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We operate in markets that are highly competitive and competitive pressures could require us to lower our prices or result in reduced demand for our products. We operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance in mission-critical operating environments, quality, service, reliability, manufacturing footprint, and commercial competitiveness across the industries and end-markets we serve. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to design and manufacture high-quality products that meet the needs of our customers at a commercially competitive price, particularly in markets where low-cost, country-based suppliers, primarily in China with respect to the Sensing Solutions segment, have entered the markets or increased their per-unit sales in these markets by delivering products at low cost to local OEMs. In addition, certain of our competitors in the transportation sensor market are influenced or controlled by major OEMs or suppliers, thereby limiting our access to these customers. Many of our customers also rely on us as their sole source of supply for many of the products that we have historically sold to them. These customers may choose to develop relationships with additional suppliers or elect to produce some or all of these products internally, primarily to reduce risk of delivery interruptions or as a means of extracting more value from us. Certain of our tier customers currently have, or may develop in the future, the capability to internally produce the products that we sell to them and may compete with us with respect to those and other products and with respect to other customers. Many of our customers, including transportation manufacturers and other industrial and commercial OEMs, demand annual price reductions. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, these price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with price increases. Further, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could limit sales, cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly in the automotive industry, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions, many of which are increasing warranty requirements. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us. Security breaches and other disruptions to our IT infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability, which could have a material adverse impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on IT networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries through increasingly sophisticated methods. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, we may not be able to detect breaches in our IT systems or assess the severity or impact of a breach in a timely manner. We regularly experience attacks to our systems and networks and have from time to time experienced cybersecurity breaches, such as computer viruses and malware, unauthorized parties gaining access to our IT systems, and similar incidents, which to date have not had a material impact on our business. If we are unable to efficiently and effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access. While we select our third-party vendors carefully, problems with the IT systems of our vendors, including breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks, and security breaches at a vendor could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Additionally, we are an acquisitive organization and the process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk as we might not adequately identify weaknesses in the targets information systems, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to attack. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems, maintenance of backup and protective systems, and maintenance of cybersecurity insurance), our IT networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, malware and ransomware, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. 22 Table of Contents Moreover, as we continue to develop products containing complex IT systems designed to support todays increasingly connected vehicles, these systems also could be susceptible to similar interruptions, including the possibility of unauthorized access. Further, as we transition to offering more cloud-based solutions that are dependent on the internet or other networks to operate with increased users, we may become a greater target for cyber threats, such as malware, denial of service, external adversaries, or insider threats. These types of incidents affecting us or our third-party vendors could result in intellectual property or other confidential information being lost or stolen, including client, employee, or company data. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws and/or export control laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business. Further, to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against us, and ultimately harm our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Improper disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary data could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability, or harm to our reputation. Changes to data protection laws, new customer requirements, and changes to international data transfer rules could impose new burdens. One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our employees and customers confidential and proprietary information. We maintain policies, procedures, and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information and regularly review compliance changes in the jurisdictions where Sensata operates. Nevertheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error, employee or vendor malfeasance, or cyber-attacks that could result in improper access to or disclosure or transfer of confidential, personal, or proprietary information by Sensata or our supply chain. Such access transfers could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and the laws and regulations that protect personal and export-controlled data, resulting in increased costs, loss of revenue, and loss of customers. The release of confidential information could also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals, business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. In many jurisdictions we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the use of this information. These laws and regulations are changing rapidly, are becoming increasingly complex, and can conflict across the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our failure to adhere to processes in response to changing regulatory requirements could result in legal liability, significant regulator penalties and fines, or impair our reputation in the marketplace. The technological capabilities we are developing in the Sensata Insights business bring new risks to our company. Laws and regulations for smart vehicles are expected to continue to evolve in numerous jurisdictions globally, which could affect our product portfolio and operations. Further, managing and securing personal and customer data that our products, as well as our partners products, gather is a new and evolving risk for us. We must also prepare and adjust for rapid design philosophies associated with building these new solutions. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key senior management and qualified technical, sales, and other personnel. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to retain key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical, and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate, and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Financial Risks We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. A portion of our net revenue, expenses, receivables, and payables are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (the "USD"). We, therefore, face exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates of currencies other than the USD, which may change over time and could affect our financial results and cash flows. For financial reporting purposes, we, and most of our subsidiaries, operate under a USD functional currency because of the significant influence of the USD on our operations. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the USD. At the date that such transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain, or loss arising from the transaction is measured and 23 Table of Contents recorded in USD using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the USD are adjusted to USD using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recognized in other, net in the consolidated statements of operations. During times of a weakening USD, our revenue recognized in currencies other than the USD may increase because the non-U.S. currency will translate into more USD. Conversely, during times of a strengthening USD, our revenue recognized in currencies other than the USD may decrease because the local currency will translate into fewer USD. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, including our ability to service our debt and/or comply with the related covenants. The credit agreement governing our secured credit facility (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") provides for senior secured credit facilities (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities") consisting of a term loan facility (the "Term Loan"), a $420.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), and incremental availability (the "Accordion") under which additional secured credit facilities could be issued under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2021, we had $4,280.2 million of gross outstanding indebtedness, including various tranches of senior notes (the Senior Notes). Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions; limit our ability to repurchase shares; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly-leveraged; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and market conditions; or require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness if we do not maintain specified financial ratios or are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it comes due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows for other purposes. In addition, the Accordion permits us to incur additional secured credit facilities in certain circumstances in the future, subject to certain limitations as defined in the indentures under which the Senior Notes were issued. This could allow us to issue additional secured debt or increase the capacity of the Revolving Credit Facility. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility or incur other new indebtedness under the Accordion, the risks described above would increase. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to complete such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we experience an event of default under any of our debt instruments that is not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which, in turn, would result in cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default. If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could: elect to terminate their commitments thereunder; cease making further loans; declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; and prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event. Changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, may have a material impact on our results of operations. We evaluate all trade policies that impact us, and we adjust our operational strategies to mitigate the impact of these policies. However, trade policies, including quotas, duties, tariffs, taxes, or other restrictions on the import or export of our products, are subject to change, and we cannot ensure that any mitigation strategies employed will remain available in the future or that we will be able to offset tariff-related costs or maintain competitive pricing of our products. The adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies has the 24 Table of Contents potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the global economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Existing duty reduction and deferral programs, such as free-trade agreements, duty drawback, and inward processing relief, provide beneficial impacts to our duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with each programs unique requirements. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of these duty reduction and deferral programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, most of our facilities in Mexico operate under the Mexican Maquiladora program. This program provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in such program, or by our failure to comply with its requirements. Further tariffs may be imposed on other imports of our products or our business may be further impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future U.S. tariffs. We may raise our prices on products subject to such tariffs to share the cost with our customers, which could harm our operating performance or cause our customers to seek alternative suppliers. In addition, we may seek to shift some of our China manufacturing to other countries, which could result in additional costs and disruption to our operations. We also sell our products globally and, therefore, our export sales could be impacted by the tariffs. Any material reduction in sales may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net totaled approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2021, or 52% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized, was approximately $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2021, or 41% of our total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were recognized at fair value as of the corresponding acquisition date. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, significant unexpected or planned changes in the use of assets, and a variety of other factors. We consider a combination of quantitative and qualitative factors to determine whether a reporting unit is at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test, including: the timing of our most recent quantitative impairment tests and the relative amount by which a reporting units fair value exceeded its then carrying value, the inputs and assumptions underlying our valuation models and the sensitivity of our fair value measurements to those inputs and assumptions, the impact that adverse economic or market conditions may have on the degree of uncertainty inherent in our long-term operating forecasts, and changes in the carrying value of a reporting units net assets from the time of our most recent goodwill impairment test. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income, which may impact our ability to raise capital. Should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairments. Refer to Note 11: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates , in the MD&A included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors that could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United Kingdom (the "U.K."), China, Mexico, the U.S., and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, changes in tax rates and tax laws, our jurisdictional mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effects on our revenues and costs of complying with transfer pricing requirements under differing laws of various countries, consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments, the generation of sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, and the taxation of subsidiary income in the jurisdiction of its parent company regardless of whether or not distributed. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for (or benefit from) income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Refer to Note 7: Income Taxes of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our accounting for income taxes. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our tax rate will be in any period because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as changes in U.S. and other tax laws, treaties, and regulations, in particular related to proposed tax laws by the U.S. government as a result of seating of a new administration, which could increase our tax liabilities. Our actual global 25 Table of Contents tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. We continually monitor all global regulatory developments and consider alternatives to limit their detrimental impacts. However, not all unfavorable developments can be moderated, and we may consequently experience adverse effects on our effective tax rate and cash flows. For example, the European Commission (the "EC") has been conducting investigations of state aid and have focused on whether EU sovereign country laws or rulings provide favorable treatment to taxpayers conflicting with its interpretation of EU law. EC findings may have retroactive effect and can cause increases in tax liabilities where we considered ourselves in full compliance with local legislation. Furthermore, on October 8, 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (the "OECD") announced most of its member jurisdictions agreed to the OECDs Inclusive Framework of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, which establishes global minimum tax rules. These rules are expected to be reflected in local country laws where we do business effective in calendar 2023. The precise impact of these laws is not yet known, and we cannot provide assurances that Sensata can mitigate any increases in tax liabilities under these new rules. We continue to monitor developments and will react accordingly. We could be subject to future audits conducted by both foreign and domestic tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits, and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits, and other matters could cause our global tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase, and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity that is separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to us. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA, the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license for export. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, loss of export privileges, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to compliance with laws and regulations controlling the import and export of goods, services, software, and technical data. Certain of our products are subject to export regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate (Controlled Items). The export of many such Controlled Items requires a license from the applicable government agency. Licensing decisions are made based on type of product, its destination, end use, end user, the parties involved in the transaction, 26 Table of Contents national security, and foreign policy. As a result, export license approvals are not guaranteed. We have a trade compliance team and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with import and export regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with such regulations could limit our ability to import or export raw material and finished goods. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change may limit or exclude existing or future business opportunities, require us to change technology, or incur expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our trade compliance program. Although we continue to enhance our trade compliance program, we cannot guarantee that any such enhancements will ensure full compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that applicable authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. Changes in existing environmental or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for our products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; greenhouse gas emissions; product hazardous material content; and the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. In addition, our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted, or are proposing to enact, laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU RoHS, ELV, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the EU REACH regulation; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights, or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert managements attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We also may be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. U.K. Domicile Risks As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. English law imposes additional restrictions on certain corporate actions. For example, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot, or issue, securities with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. English law also generally provides shareholders with preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for the articles of association, or shareholders at a general meeting, to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. We currently only have authorization to issue shares under our equity plan excluding preemptive rights until our next annual general meeting. This authorization and exclusion needs to be renewed by our shareholders periodically and we intend to renew the authorization and exclusion at each annual general meeting. English law also requires us to have available "distributable reserves" to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders. Distributable reserves may be created through the earnings of the U.K. parent company or other actions. While we intend to maintain a sufficient level of distributable reserves, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient earnings in order to maintain the necessary level of distributable reserves to make share repurchases or pay dividends. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of our shareholders. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is not a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. Consequently, any repurchase of our shares is currently considered an "off-market purchase." Our current authorization expires on May 28, 2025, and we intend to renew this authorization periodically. 28 Table of Contents As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the enforcement of civil liabilities against us may be more difficult. Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for a U.S. company. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. As a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. to enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the U.S. federal securities laws. The English courts will, however, treat any amount payable by us under U.S. judgment as a debt and new proceedings can be commenced in the English courts to enforce this debt against us. The following criteria must be satisfied for the English court to enforce the debt created by the U.S. judgment: (1) the U.S. court having had jurisdiction over the original proceedings according to English conflicts of laws principles and rules of English private international law at the time when proceedings were initiated; (2) the U.S. proceedings not having been brought in breach of a jurisdiction or arbitration clause except with the agreement of the defendant or the defendants subsequent submission to the jurisdiction of the court; (3) the U.S. judgment being final and conclusive on the merits in the sense of being final and unalterable in the court which pronounced it and being for a definite sum of money; (4) the recognition or enforcement, as the case may be, of the U.S. judgment not contravening English public policy in a sufficiently significant way or contravening the Human Rights Act 1998 (or any subordinate legislation made thereunder, to the extent applicable); (5) the U.S. judgment not being for a sum payable in respect of taxes, or other charges of a like nature, or in respect of a penalty or fine, or otherwise based on a U.S. law that an English court considers to be a penal or revenue law; (6) the U.S. judgment not having been arrived at by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damages sustained, and not otherwise being a judgment contrary to section 5 of the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 or is a judgment based on measures designated by the Secretary of State under Section 1 of that Act; (7) the U.S. judgment not having been obtained by fraud or in breach of English principles of natural justice; (8) the U.S. judgment not being a judgment on a matter previously determined by an English court, or another court whose judgment is entitled to recognition (or enforcement as the case may be) in England, in proceedings involving the same parties that conflicts with an earlier judgment of such court; (9) the party seeking enforcement (being a party who is not ordinarily resident in some part of the U.K. or resident in an EU Member State) providing security for costs, if ordered to do so by the English courts; and (10) the English enforcement proceedings being commenced within the relevant limitation period. If an English court gives judgment for the sum payable under a U.S. judgment, the English judgment will be enforceable by methods generally available for this purpose. These methods generally permit the English court discretion to prescribe the manner of enforcement. In addition, in any enforcement proceedings, the judgment debtor may raise any counterclaim that could have been brought if the action had been originally brought in England unless the subject of the counterclaim was in issue and denied in the U.S. proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2021, we occupied principal manufacturing facilities and business centers in the following locations: Reportable Segment Approximate Square Footage (in thousands) Performance Sensing Sensing Solutions Country Location Owned Leased Bulgaria Botevgrad X 169 Bulgaria Plovdiv X 125 Bulgaria Sofia X 121 China Baoying (1) X X 296 385 China Changzhou X X 335 256 Malaysia Subang Jaya X 138 Mexico Aguascalientes X X 489 Mexico Tijuana X X 235 The Netherlands Hengelo X X 94 United Kingdom Antrim X 137 United Kingdom Swindon (2) X 34 United States Attleboro, MA (3) X X 443 United States Carpinteria, CA X X 50 United States Grandview, MO X 47 United States Thousand Oaks, CA X X 115 1,552 1,917 __________________________ (1) The owned portion of the properties in this location serves the Sensing Solutions segment only. (2) Our U.K. headquarters is located in this facility. (3) Our U.S. headquarters is located in this facility. These facilities are primarily devoted to research, development, engineering, manufacturing, and assembly. In addition to these principal facilities, we occupy other manufacturing, engineering, warehousing, administrative, and sales facilities worldwide, which are primarily leased. We consider our manufacturing facilities sufficient to meet our current operational requirements. An increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. We believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required; however, if we are unable to acquire, integrate, and move into production the facilities, equipment, and personnel necessary to meet such an increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations, and/or financial condition may suffer materially. Leases covering our currently occupied principal leased facilities expire at varying dates within the next 15 years. We do not anticipate difficulty in retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy, or by replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities. A significant portion of our owned properties and equipment is subject to a lien under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are regularly involved in a number of claims and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters, based upon our experience and current information known to us, we do not expect the outcome of these matters, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our ordinary shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ST." Performance Graph The following graph compares the total shareholder return of our ordinary shares since December 31, 2016 to the total shareholder return since that date of the Standard & Poors ("S&P") 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Industrial Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our ordinary shares and each index was $100.00 on December 31, 2016. Total Shareholder Return of $100.00 Investment from December 31, 2016 As of December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Sensata $ 100.00 $ 131.22 $ 115.12 $ 138.31 $ 135.40 $ 158.38 S&P 500 $ 100.00 $ 121.83 $ 116.49 $ 153.17 $ 181.35 $ 233.41 S&P 500 Industrial $ 100.00 $ 118.54 $ 100.76 $ 127.79 $ 139.30 $ 166.33 The information in the graph and table above is not "soliciting material," is not deemed "filed" with the United States (the "U.S.") Securities and Exchange Commission, and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report"), except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The total shareholder return shown on the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future price performance. Stockholders As of January 28, 2022, there were three holders of record of our ordinary shares, primarily Cede & Co. (which acts as nominee shareholder for the Depository Trust Company). 31 Table of Contents Dividends We do not currently pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from our subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In that regard, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Sensata Technologies B.V. ("STBV"), may be limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to its immediate parent company and, ultimately, to us. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto (our "Financial Statements") included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our dividend restrictions. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to the extent that the shareholders' equity of such subsidiary exceeds the reserves required to be maintained by law or under its articles of association. Under the laws of England and Wales, we are able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares only out of distributable reserves on our statutory balance sheet. Distributable reserves are a companys accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. Realized reserves are determined in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards at the time the relevant accounts are prepared. We are not permitted to make a distribution if, at the time, the amount of our net assets is less than the aggregate of our issued and paid-up share capital and undistributable reserves or to the extent that the distribution will reduce our net assets below such amount. Subject to these limitations, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, our overall financial condition, and any other factors deemed relevant by our shareholders and Board of Directors. Under current United Kingdom ("U.K.") tax legislation, any future dividends paid by us will not be subject to withholding or deduction on account of U.K. tax, irrespective of the tax residence or the individual circumstances of the recipient shareholder. Shareholders should consult their tax advisors regarding their particular tax situation and the income tax consequences on any potential dividend income received from us. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (in shares) (1) Weighted-Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plan or Programs (in millions) (2) October 1 through October 31, 2021 668 $ 56.08 $ 302.3 November 1 through November 30, 2021 400,344 $ 59.82 400,344 $ 278.4 December 1 through December 31, 2021 406,937 $ 58.75 406,541 $ 254.5 Quarter total 807,949 $ 59.28 806,885 $ 254.5 __________________________ (1) The number of ordinary shares presented includes ordinary shares that were withheld upon the vesting of restricted securities to cover payment of employee withholding tax. These withholdings took place outside of a publicly announced repurchase plan. There were 668 ordinary shares withheld in October 2021 and 396 ordinary shares withheld in December 2021, representing a total aggregate fair value of $61 thousand based on the closing price of our ordinary shares on the date of withholdings. (2) Other than shares withheld to cover required tax withholding upon the vesting of restricted securities, all purchases during the three months ended December 31, 2021 were conducted pursuant to a $500.0 million share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors and publicly announced on July 30, 2019 (the "July 2019 Program"). On January 20, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a new ordinary share repurchase program of $500 million (the January 2022 Program), which replaces the July 2019 Program. The January 2022 Program does not have an established expiration date. ITEM 6. RESERVED 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Item 1: Business and our Financial Statements, each included elsewhere in this Report. The statements in this discussion regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Sensata continued to deliver mission-critical, highly engineered solutions to our customers in 2021. As we look towards 2022 and beyond, we are confident in our ability to sustain total outgrowth in the markets we serve of 400 to 600 basis points per year. We use the term "market outgrowth" to describe the impact of an increasing quantity and value of our products used in customer systems and applications, above normal market growth. It is only loosely correlated to normal unit demand fluctuations in the markets we serve. We believe we can deliver this end market outgrowth based on our high levels of new business awards and our large and expanding pipeline of new opportunities. In fiscal year 2021, we continued to produce strong market outgrowth of 960 basis points, including 860 basis points and 1,930 basis points in our automotive and heavy vehicle and off-road ("HVOR") businesses, respectively. We are also targeting adding 400 to 600 basis points of inorganic revenue growth annually through acquisitions. We believe that the overall business environment provides opportunities to further strengthen our portfolio through strategically important, value-creating acquisitions and/or joint ventures. We are also pursuing new technology collaborations and partnerships with third parties to expand our capabilities and accelerate our megatrend-driven growth potential. We will continue to innovate on behalf of our customers, solving some of their most demanding engineering challenges. We will also continue to provide differentiated, Electrification and Insights solutions to our broad array of customers. Solving these mission-critical challenges enables Sensata to continue to deliver differentiated value for both our customers and shareholders while also increasing investments in our growth opportunities and our people. We continue to invest in our megatrend growth initiatives that are enabling large and rapidly growing opportunities for Sensata across all our end markets. We are working to become a leading and foundational player in electrification components and sub-systems across broad industrial, transportation, and stationary energy storage end-markets and to be a comprehensive solutions provider in select end-market segments. We are making progress in Electrification and Insights, both organically through new business wins and inorganically through bolt-on acquisitions or joint ventures. To better pursue clean energy components and system opportunities, in the third quarter of 2021 we reorganized our Sensing Solutions operating segment, moving the portion of our electrical protection product category that includes high-voltage contactors, inverters, and battery management systems from the industrial business unit to a new business unit, Clean Energy Solutions. This business unit will focus largely on the industrial and stationary, commercial/industrial energy storage end-markets. Applications include e-bikes, stationary charging infrastructure, battery-energy storage, and renewable energy applications. With the acquisition of Spear Power Systems ("Spear") and Sendyne Corp ("Sendyne") as described in Item 1: Business Business Combinations included elsewhere in this Report, we are expanding our portfolio with energy storage systems and electrical sensing products to expand on existing and new end-markets and applications. These acquisitions expand on our capabilities in battery management systems and high-voltage contactors introduced with the previous acquisitions of Lithium Balance and GIGAVAC, LLC ("GIGAVAC"), respectively. With our Insights megatrend initiative, we are focusing on becoming the leader in delivering data-driven insight, connectivity, and prognostics to commercial fleet operators and asset managers, by providing solutions that increase overall productivity and operational efficiency. This initiative addresses a large and fast-growing market opportunity to deliver data insights across heavy, medium, and light vehicle fleets; supply chain and logistics including cargo, container, and warehouse segments; and high-value stationary asset monitoring. As discussed in Item 1: Business Business Combinations included elsewhere in this Report, we acquired Xirgo Technologies, LLC ("Xirgo") and SmartWitness Holdings, Inc. ("SmartWitness") in fiscal year 2021, expanding our capabilities to provide data insights to transportation and logistics customers through telematics, video telematics, asset tracking devices, and other cloud-based solutions. 33 Table of Contents We continue our journey on Sensata's long-standing mission to help create a cleaner, safer, and more connected world, not just for our customer's products but also through our own operations. We're on our way to achieving the targets laid out in our first sustainability report, bolstering the long-term sustainability and success of the company for all of its stakeholders. Refer to Item 1: Business included elsewhere in this Report for detailed discussion of our business strategies, including those related to our key megatrend initiatives, and market drivers of our business. Fiscal Year 2021 Markets and Financial Results We analyze revenue in terms of inorganic revenue growth/decline (i.e. changes in foreign currency exchange rate and acquisitions/divestitures) vs organic revenue growth/decline (market growth and market outgrowth). Market results We believe regulatory requirements for safer vehicles, higher fuel efficiency, and lower emissions, as well as customer demand for operator productivity and convenience, drive the need for advancements in powertrain management, efficiency, safety, and operator controls. These advancements lead to sensor growth rates that we expect to exceed underlying production growth in many of our key end-markets, which we expect will continue to offer us significant growth opportunities. In fiscal year 2021, global production of light vehicles increased 1.2% from fiscal year 2020, according to third-party data. This increase from the significant decline in 2020 was tempered due to global supply constraints, including shortages of semiconductor components. Global production in the HVOR markets we serve increased 24% from fiscal year 2020. Our China on-road truck business saw significant market outgrowth from the adoption of NS6 emissions regulations, and we are also benefiting from a wave of electromechanical operator controls being installed in new off-road equipment. In addition, we have continued to see recovery in the global industrial end-markets. Market outgrowth We continue to produce strong market outgrowth, above our previously-stated target ranges. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we delivered 960 basis points of market outgrowth, including 860 basis points, 1,930 basis points, and 580 basis points in our automotive, HVOR, and Sensing Solutions businesses, respectively. During fiscal year 2021, we closed $640 million in new business wins ("NBOs"), including $270 million in Electrification wins, in each case the highest we have ever closed. We define NBOs as incremental revenue to our current base of business that is expected to be recognized on average in the fifth year after entry into the agreement, when programs typically reach their normal volume. Revenue Consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased 25.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding an increase of 2.3% attributed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase of 2.5% due to the effect of acquisitions, consolidated net revenue increased 20.7% on an organic basis compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Automotive net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased 17.6% compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding an increase of 2.5% attributed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, automotive net revenue increased 15.1% on an organic basis compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, representing market outgrowth of 860 basis points, excluding the estimated effects of original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") efforts to replenish inventory channels. This outgrowth was led by new product launches in powertrain and emissions, safety, and electrification-related applications and systems. HVOR net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased 63.3% compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding an increase of 2.1% attributed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase of 14.8% due to the effect of acquisitions, HVOR net revenue increased 46.4% on an organic basis compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, representing market outgrowth of 1,930 basis points, excluding the estimated effects of OEM efforts to replenish inventory channels. Our China on-road truck business saw significant market outgrowth from the adoption of NS6 emissions regulations, and we are also benefiting from a wave of electromechanical operator controls being installed in new off-road equipment. Sensing Solutions net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased 18.4% compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding an increase of 1.7% attributed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and an increase of 0.3% due to the effect of acquisitions, Sensing Solutions net revenue increased 16.4% on an organic basis compared to the year 34 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2020, representing market outgrowth of 580 basis points. This outgrowth was driven by new Electrification launches. Operating Income We continue to see elevated costs related to the global supply chain shortages, which are causing production delays on a vast and varied number of products across industries and geographies and increased procurement and logistics costs, which are contributing to a higher cost and inflationary environment that has impacted our margins in fiscal year. Despite these elevated costs, which we are working to mitigate, operating income increased $295.5 million, or 87.5%, to $633.2 million (16.6% of net revenue) compared to $337.7 million (11.1% of net revenue) in fiscal year 2020. This increase is the result of (1) improved gross margins, due mainly to higher organic sales volumes as well as the turnaround effect of the settlement of litigation brought by Wasica Finance GmbH ("Wasica") in 2020, partially offset by increased costs related to global supply chain shortages, and (2) lower restructuring costs. These improvements were partially offset by (1) higher spend to support megatrend growth initiatives, (2) higher incentive compensation aligned to improved financial performance, and (3) the turnaround effect of temporary salary reductions and furloughs taken in the second quarter 2020. We expect to see constraints on global production of light vehicles lifting slowly throughout the course of fiscal year 2022. Refer to Results of Operations Operating Costs and Expenses included elsewhere in this Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (this "MD&A") for additional discussion of our operating costs and expenses. Net Income Net income increased $199.3 million in fiscal year 2021, to $363.6 million, compared to $164.3 million in fiscal year 2020. This increase was primarily a result of higher operating income partially offset by higher taxes and the loss on redemption of the $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2026 (the "6.25% Senior Notes"). Forward-looking information We expect to see constraints on global production of light vehicles lifting slowly throughout the course of fiscal year 2022. We expect low single-digit end market growth across all our markets in fiscal year 2022, with automotive growth of approximately 7% and HVOR production approximately flat. However, in 2021, our customers ordered over production to compensate for supply chain shortages. We estimate this amounted to approximately $90 million of revenue over production in 2021 that will not repeat in fiscal year 2022. Our revenue outgrowth to market will continue to be driven by ongoing efforts to improve energy efficiency, safety, and the environment. We continue to invest in our megatrend initiatives both organically and inorganically, with the acquisitions of Lithium Balance, Xirgo, Spear, SmartWitness, and Sendyne, expanding not only our capabilities, but also our access to end-markets and product portfolios in these pivotal areas. Refer to Item 1: Business Business Combinations included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to these acquisitions. We expect continued significant growth in these megatrend areas over the coming years, driven by Electrification trends, the infrastructure requirements to support Electrification, and the proliferation of Insights on stationary and mobile equipment. Liquidity We have sufficient cash to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise. We generated $554.2 million of operating cash flow in fiscal year 2021, ending the year with $1.7 billion in cash. Our ability to generate positive cash flows allows us to continue to pursue the acquisition of innovative businesses that will expand our presence in our targeted growth vectors. In November 2021, we resumed our share repurchase program, which we had previously suspended on April 2, 2020, and we repurchased 0.8 million shares for approximately $47.8 million in fiscal year 2021. On January 20, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a new ordinary share repurchase program of $500 million (the January 2022 Program), which replaces the $500.0 million program previously authorized by our Board of Directors in July 2019 (the "July 2019 Program"). Sensatas shareholders have previously approved the forms of share repurchase agreements and the potential broker counterparties needed to execute the buyback program. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional information related to our share repurchase program. In the first quarter of 2021, we used the flexibility provided by our large cash balance to lower our cost of capital and extend our debt maturity by redeeming the full amount outstanding on the 6.25% Senior Notes. Subsequently, on March 29, 2021, we issued the first $750.0 million of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.0% senior notes due 2029 (the "4.0% Senior Notes"), at par, and on April 8, 2021, we issued an additional $250.0 million of 4.0% Senior Notes at a price of 100.75%. The combined effect of these transactions was to extend the average maturity of our debt profile and lower our total cost of fixed debt. Proceeds from the 4.0% Senior Notes will be used for general corporate purposes, to fund future acquisitions and our 35 Table of Contents capital deployment strategy, and for future debt repayments. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to these transactions and our overall debt. Acquisitions We completed various acquisitions in 2021 in support of our key strategic priorities. A summary of these acquisitions is included in the table below: (In millions) Segment Purchase Price Acquisition Date Performance Sensing Sensing Solutions Cash Estimated Contingency Lithium Balance (1) January 29, 2021 X $ 27.2 $ Xirgo April 1, 2021 X $ 401.7 $ Spear (2)(3) November 19, 2021 X $ 105.8 $ 8.6 SmartWitness (2) November 19, 2021 X $ 204.2 $ Sendyne (2) December 8, 2021 X $ 25.1 $ __________________________ (1) Step acquisition completed on the date indicated (2) Purchase price accounting is preliminary (3) Contingency estimated as of the date of acquisition, subject to change Refer to Item 1: Business Business Combinations and Note 21: Acquisitions of our Financial Statements, each included elsewhere in this Report, for additional information related to these acquisitions. Summary During fiscal year 2021, we experienced continued positive momentum from the business and economic growth that began in the second half of 2020. We responded well to the rapid changes in many of our end-markets, demonstrating the strength, resiliency, and reliability of our business and organizational model, enabling us to capitalize on the recovery in end-market demand and deliver on customers orders. We will continue to focus on delivering differentiated value for both our customers and shareholders, while also increasing investments in our growth opportunities and our people. Selected Segment Information We present financial information for two reportable segments, Performance Sensing and Sensing Solutions. Set forth below is selected information for each of these segments for the periods presented. Amounts and percentages in the tables below have been calculated based on unrounded numbers, accordingly, certain amounts may not appear to recalculate due to the effect of rounding. The following table presents net revenue by segment for the identified periods: For the year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total Amount Percent of Total Net revenue: Performance Sensing $ 2,847.9 74.5 % $ 2,223.8 73.0 % $ 2,546.0 73.8 % Sensing Solutions 972.9 25.5 821.8 27.0 904.6 26.2 Total net revenue $ 3,820.8 100.0 % $ 3,045.6 100.0 % $ 3,450.6 100.0 % 36 Table of Contents The following table presents segment operating income in U.S. dollars ("USD") and as a percentage of segment net revenue for the identified periods: For the year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Amount Percent of Segment Net Revenue Segment operating income: Performance Sensing $ 777.2 27.3 % $ 532.5 23.9 % $ 670.5 26.3 % Sensing Solutions 293.2 30.1 % 241.2 29.4 % 294.0 32.5 % Total segment operating income $ 1,070.4 $ 773.7 $ 964.4 For a reconciliation of total segment operating income to consolidated operating income, refer to Note 20: Segment Reporting of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Selected Geographic Information We are a global business with significant operations around the world and a diverse revenue mix by geography, customer, and end-market. The following table presents (as a percentage of total) property, plant and equipment, net ("PP&E"), and net revenue by geographic region for the identified periods: PP&E, net as of December 31, Net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2021 2020 2019 Americas 32.3 % 33.1 % 38.0 % 39.3 % 42.3 % Europe 22.0 % 24.4 % 26.2 % 26.8 % 28.1 % Asia and rest of world 45.7 % 42.5 % 35.8 % 33.9 % 29.6 % Refer to Note 20: Segment Reporting of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our PP&E, net balances by selected geographic area as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 and net revenue by selected geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019. Net Revenue by End-Market Our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 was derived from the following end-markets (amounts are calculated based on unrounded numbers, and may not appear to recalculate): For the year ended December 31, (Percentage of total) 2021 2020 2019 Automotive 54.0 % 57.5 % 58.8 % HVOR 21.7 % 16.7 % 16.2 % Industrial 10.8 % 11.0 % 10.2 % Appliance and HVAC (1) 6.4 % 6.2 % 5.8 % Aerospace 3.5 % 4.5 % 5.1 % Other 3.6 % 4.1 % 3.9 % __________________________ (1) Heating, ventilation and air conditioning We are a significant supplier to multiple OEMs within many of these end-markets, thereby reducing customer concentration risk. 37 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Operating Results The following discussion describes components of the consolidated statements of operations as well as factors that impact those components. Refer to Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included elsewhere in this MD&A for additional information related to the accounting policies and estimates made related to these components. Refer to Results of Operations included elsewhere in this MD&A for discussion of the actual impact on our financial statements of these factors. Net revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of tangible products. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales into the automotive end-market, conditions in the automotive industry can have a significant impact on the amount of revenue that we recognize. However, outside of the automotive industry, we sell our products to end-users in a wide range of industries, end-markets, and geographic regions. As a result, the drivers of demand for these products vary considerably and are influenced by industry, market, or geographic conditions. Our overall net revenue is impacted by various factors, which we characterize as either "organic" or "inorganic." Our net revenue may be impacted by the following organic factors: fluctuations in overall economic activity within the geographic regions in which we operate; underlying growth in one or more of our end-markets, either worldwide or particular geographies in which we operate; the number of our products used within existing applications, or the development of new applications requiring these products, due to regulations or other factors; the "mix" of products sold, including the proportion of new or upgraded products and their pricing relative to existing products; changes in product sales prices (including quantity discounts, rebates, and cash discounts for prompt payment); changes in the level of competition faced by our products, including the launch of new products by competitors; our ability to successfully develop, launch, and sell new products and applications; and the trend of the automotive market evolving from internal combustion engine powertrain products to more environmentally-friendly vehicles that rely more heavily on Electrification and other adjacent technologies. Our net revenue may be impacted by the following inorganic factors: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and acquisitions and divestitures. While the factors described above may impact net revenue in each of our reportable segments, the magnitude of that impact can differ. For more information about revenue risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A: Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Report. Cost of revenue We manufacture the majority of our products and subcontract only a limited number of products to third parties. As such, our cost of revenue consists principally of the following: Production Materials Costs. We source materials used in production on a global basis to ensure a highly-effective and efficient supply chain, but we are still impacted by local market conditions, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A portion of our production materials contains certain commodities, resins, and metals, and the cost of these materials may vary with underlying pricing and foreign currency exchange rates. However, we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices and fluctuation of exchange rates associated with certain of these commodities. The terms of these contracts fix the price at a future date for various notional amounts associated with these commodities. Gains and losses recognized on these derivatives are recorded in other, net and are not included in cost of revenue. Refer to Note 6: Other, Net of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information. 38 Table of Contents Employee Costs. Employee costs include wages and benefits, including variable incentive compensation, for employees involved in our manufacturing operations and certain customer service and engineering activities, including variable incentive compensation. A significant portion of these costs can fluctuate on an aggregate basis in direct correlation with changes in production volumes. As a percentage of net revenue, these costs may decline as a result of economies of scale associated with higher production volumes, and conversely, may increase with lower production volumes. These costs also fluctuate based on local market conditions. We rely on contract workers for direct labor in certain geographies. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 1,900 direct labor contract workers on a worldwide basis. Sustaining Engineering Activity Costs. These costs relate to modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications as well as improvements made to our manufacturing processes. Other. Our remaining cost of revenue primarily consists of: gains and losses on certain foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges; material yields; costs to import raw materials, such as tariffs; depreciation of fixed assets used in the manufacturing process; freight costs; warehousing expenses; maintenance and repair expenses; costs of quality assurance; operating supplies; and other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses for energy consumption and operating lease expense. Changes in cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in the price of raw materials, including the impact of changes in costs to import such raw materials, such as tariffs; changes in customer prices and surcharges; implementation of cost improvement measures aimed at increasing productivity, including reduction of fixed production costs, refinements in inventory management, design and process driven changes, and the coordination of procurement within each subsidiary and at the business level; product lifecycles, as we typically incur higher cost of revenue associated with new product development (related to excess manufacturing capacity and higher production costs during the initial stages of product launches) and during the phase-out of discontinued products; changes in production volumes production costs are capitalized in inventory based on normal production volumes, as revenue increases, the fixed portion of these costs does not; transfer of production to our lower-cost manufacturing facilities; changes in depreciation expense, including those arising from the adjustment of PP&E to fair value associated with acquisitions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in product mix; changes in logistics costs; acquisitions and divestitures acquired and divested businesses may generate higher or lower cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue than our core business; and 39 Table of Contents the increase in the carrying value of inventory that is adjusted to fair value as a result of the application of purchase accounting associated with acquisitions. Research and development expense We develop products that address increasingly complex engineering and operating performance requirements to help our customers solve their most difficult challenges in the automotive, HVOR, fleet management, industrial, clean energy, and aerospace industries. We believe that continued focused investment in research and development ("R&D") is critical to our future growth and maintaining our leadership positions in the markets we serve. Our R&D efforts are directly related to timely development of new and enhanced products that are central to our business strategy. We continually develop our technologies to meet an evolving set of customer requirements and new product introductions. We conduct such activities in areas that we believe will increase our long-term revenue growth. Our development expense is typically associated with engineering core technology platforms to specific applications and engineering major upgrades that improve the functionality or reduce the cost of existing products. In addition, we continually consider new technologies where we may have expertise for potential investment or acquisition. An increasing portion of our R&D activities are being directed towards technologies and megatrends that we believe have the potential for significant future growth, but that relate to products that are not currently within our core business or include new features and capabilities for existing products. Expenses related to these activities are less likely to result in increased near-term revenue than our more mainstream development activities. R&D expense consists of costs related to product design, development, and process engineering. Costs related to modifications of existing products for use by new and existing customers in familiar applications are presented in cost of revenue and are not included in R&D expense. The level of R&D expense in any period is related to the number of products in development, the stage of the development process, the complexity of the underlying technology, the potential scale of the product upon successful commercialization, and the level of our exploratory research. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense consists of all expenditures incurred in connection with the sale and marketing of our products, as well as administrative overhead costs, including: salary and benefit costs for sales and marketing personnel and administrative staff; share-based incentive compensation expense; charges related to the use and maintenance of administrative offices, including depreciation expense; other administrative costs, including expenses relating to information systems, human resources, and legal and accounting services; other selling and marketing related costs, such as expenses incurred in connection with travel and communications; and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. Changes in SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in sales volume, as higher volumes enable us to spread the fixed portion of our selling, marketing, and administrative expense over higher revenue (e.g. expenses relating to our sales and marketing personnel can fluctuate due to prolonged trends in sales volume, while expenses relating to administrative personnel generally do not increase or decrease directly with changes in sales volume); changes in customer prices and surcharges; changes in the mix of products we sell, as some products may require more customer support and sales effort than others; new product launches in existing and new markets, as these launches typically involve a more intense sales and marketing activity before they are integrated into customer applications and systems; changes in our customer base, as new customers may require different levels of sales and marketing attention; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and 40 Table of Contents acquisitions and divestitures - acquired and divested businesses may require different levels of SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue than our core business. Depreciation expense Depreciation expense includes depreciation of PP&E, which includes assets held under finance lease and amortization of leasehold improvements. Depreciation expense is included in either cost of revenue or SG&A expense depending on the use of the asset as a manufacturing or administrative asset. Depreciation expense will vary according to the age of existing PP&E and the level of capital expenditures. Amortization expense We have recognized a significant amount of definite-lived intangible assets. Acquisition-related definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on an economic-benefit basis according to the useful lives of the assets, or on a straight-line basis if a pattern of economic benefits cannot be reliably determined. The amount of amortization expense related to definite-lived intangible assets depends on the amount and timing of definite-lived intangible assets acquired and where previously acquired definite-lived intangible assets are in their estimated life-cycle. In general, the economic benefit of a definite-lived intangible asset is concentrated towards the beginning of its useful life. Restructuring and other charges, net Restructuring and other charges, net consists of severance, outplacement, other separation benefits, and facility and other exit costs. These charges may be incurred as part of an announced restructuring plan or may be individual charges recognized related to acquired businesses or the termination of a limited number of employees that do not represent the initiation of a larger restructuring plan. Restructuring and other charges, net also includes the gain, net of transaction costs, from the sale of businesses and other operating income or expense that is not presented elsewhere in operating income. Amounts recognized in restructuring and other charges, net will vary according to the extent of our restructuring programs and other income or expense items not presented elsewhere in operating income. Interest expense, net As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had gross outstanding indebtedness of $4,280.2 million and $4,036.6 million, respectively. This indebtedness consists of a secured credit facility and senior unsecured notes. Refer to Note 14: Debt of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information. The credit agreement governing our secured credit facility (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") provides for senior secured credit facilities (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities") consisting of a term loan facility (the "Term Loan"), the $420.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), and incremental availability (the "Accordion") under which additional secured credit facilities could be issued under certain circumstances. Our respective senior unsecured notes (the "Senior Notes") accrue interest at fixed rates. However, the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility accrue interest at variable interest rates, which drives some of the variability in interest expense, net. Refer to