Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) under Item 7 herein. In addition, pursuant to Rule 12b-23 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the information set forth in the first paragraph and under the headings Introduction and Seasonality in the MD&A and the segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Note 17 are incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge on or through our Internet website ( www.dstsystems.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Finance Committee of the DST Board of Directors are available in the Investor Center on our Internet website. These guidelines and charters are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. Written requests may be made to the DST Corporate Secretary, 333 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, and oral requests may be made by calling the DST Corporate Secretarys Office at (816) 435-8655. An individual may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors COMPANY-SPECIFIC TRENDS AND RISKS There are many risks and uncertainties that could affect our future business, financial condition, operating results or share price. Many of these are beyond our control. A description follows of some of the important factors that could have a material negative impact on our future business, operating and financial results, cash flows, financial condition, prospects or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, reference in this section to we, ours, us or similar terms means the Company, together with our subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following trends and risks may vary from time to time, and the trends and risks are not listed in any specific order of importance. These risks are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or share price. Trends or events affecting our clients or their industries could decrease the demand for our products and services and the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers could materially harm our business and results of operations. We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients in the mutual fund, brokerage, investment management, healthcare, telecommunications, video and utilities, other financial service (i.e. insurance, banking and financial planning) and other industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products decreases or any of the industries we serve decline or fail or consolidate, reducing the number of potential clients, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. On a consolidated basis, for the year ended December 31, 2014, our five largest customers (excluding Boston Financial Data Services, our 50%-owned joint venture with State Street) accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated operating revenues. For the same period, the Healthcare Services segments five largest customers accounted for approximately 49% of our revenue in that segment, including 17.1% from its largest customer. Because of our significant customer concentration, particularly in the Healthcare Services segment, our revenue could fluctuate significantly due to changes in economic conditions, the use of competitive products, or the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers, and a delay or default in payment by any significant customer could materially harm our business and results of operations. Events that adversely affect our clients businesses, rates of growth or numbers of customers they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients 8 Table of Contents businesses include decreased demand for our customers products and services, adverse conditions in our customers markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential customers will accept our products or services. We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific customers and not realize additional revenue from such investments. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. Mergers or acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. This could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. The adverse effects of consolidation could be greater in sectors that we are particularly dependent upon, such as in the financial services or healthcare services sectors. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds, which could adversely affect our business. The SEC may issue regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) or other legislative authority that would require brokers and financial intermediaries that distribute mutual funds to make more detailed fee disclosures at the point-of-sale. Additionally, brokers and financial intermediaries may become subject to new fiduciary standards-of-care that could cause them to alter their methods of distribution. We cannot predict the requirements the SEC may propose and finally adopt. Regulations that would cause current distribution channels or interest in mutual fund investing to change could decrease the number of accounts on our systems as a result of changes in client offerings or the attractiveness of offerings to customers of our clients. This could adversely affect our business and operating results. Additionally, to the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. We have developed and maintained, and our businesses depend on, information technology infrastructure, including elements both internal and external, to record and process a large volume of complex transactions and other data, including personally identifiable information regarding financial and health matters. In certain circumstances, vendors have access to such data in order to assist us with responsibilities, such as producing benefit plan identification cards, maintaining software we license on our own behalf or resell to others, or helping clients comply with anti-money laundering regulations. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers or our employees intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. In recent years several financial services firms were victims of computer systems hacking attacks, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data, and reputational harm. Rapid advances in technology, and the limits and costs of technology, skills and manpower, may prevent us from anticipating, identifying, preventing or addressing all potential security threats and breaches. Any interruptions, delays, breakdowns or breach, including as a result of cybersecurity breaches, of our, or of our vendors, information technology infrastructure, including improper employee actions, could result in the loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the markets perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues, regulatory penalties, and litigation. An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues. We service mutual fund and other accounts under shareowner recordkeeping arrangements which we refer to as registered accounts. These arrangements are distinguished from broker subaccounts, which are serviced under contract with a broker/dealer. Our clients may adopt the broker subaccount structure. We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform shareowner subaccounting. As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis. Brokerage firms that obtain agreements from our clients to use a broker subaccount structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which generally results in lower revenues. While subaccounting conversions have generally been limited to our non tax-advantaged mutual fund accounts, such conversions have begun to extend to the tax-advantaged accounts (such as retirement and Section 529 accounts) we service, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 9 Table of Contents The demand for our products and services could decrease if we do not continually address our clients technology and capacity requirements. Our clients use technology-based products and services in the complex and rapidly changing markets in which they operate. We must substantially invest in technology and systems to meet customer requirements for technology and capacity. If we do not meet clients technology and capacity requirements in advance of our competitors or if the investments we make are not cost-effective or do not result in successful products or services, our business could be adversely affected. The quality or availability of postal system services could decrease, reducing the volume of printed customer communications and negatively impacting our business. We are dependent on postal delivery systems for final delivery of printed customer communications. Postal delivery systems are facing economic pressures from the reduction in First-Class mail and certain postal delivery systems have experienced work stoppages and other interruptions. Accuracy and speed of delivery are important factors for clients using printed communications in their businesses. Changes in the timeliness and quality of postal delivery could negatively impact the level of printed communications delivered by our customers to their clients. A decrease in such communications could adversely affect our business and our operating results. Decreasing demand for traditional printed and mailed communications may continue to adversely affect our business, depending on the extent to which our customers and their clients acceptance of electronic alternatives continues to grow. To the extent our clients customers select electronic presentment and delivery of communications, the demand for our services for production and distribution of printed documents has decreased and could continue to decrease. We provide electronic presentment and delivery solutions, but they are priced differently and require different capabilities than print-mail solutions. Customers may choose to perform electronic hosting and distribution of communications to customers internally or select electronic solution providers other than us. In particular, clients have terminated their services or moved production in-house. This has and could continue to adversely affect our business and our operating results. Damage to our facilities could impact our operations or financial condition. The performance of our services also depends upon facilities that house central computer operations or operating centers or in which we process information, images, bills or statements. Significant damage to any of our operating facilities could interrupt the operations at those facilities and interfere with our ability to serve customers. We may be unable to attract and retain capable technical personnel for our processing businesses or quality executives to manage the complex structure of our business. Our success depends on recruiting and retaining adept management and personnel with expertise in software and systems development and the types of computer hardware and software we utilize. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Companies in our industry compete fiercely for qualified management and technical personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately compete for or keep qualified personnel. If we lack qualified management, there is an increased risk that we will adopt unfavorable business strategies, especially in a complex business like ours with multiple segments and operating entities. If we lack qualified technical personnel, our ability to develop the systems and services our clients demand may also be negatively affected. Our businesses are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to intense competition from other established service providers in all industries we serve. Some of our competitors are able to bundle service offerings and offer more appealing pricing structures. Some of our clients, or the clients they serve, may develop, have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the transaction processing, recordkeeping and output services they have paid us to perform. Additionally, some of our competitors and clients have greater financial and human resources and access to capital than we do. Our failure to successfully compete in any of our material operating businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition could also affect the revenue mix of services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins. 10 Table of Contents We and our unconsolidated affiliates are subject to regulation. Any regulatory violations, changes or uncertainties could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to U.S. or foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, reporting and related regulations. Such regulations cover all aspects of our businesses including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker/dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, net capital, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Any violation of applicable regulations could expose us or those businesses to civil or criminal liability, significant fines or sanctions, damage our reputation, the revocation of licenses, censures, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, which could adversely affect our business or our financial results. Governmental changes and uncertainties surrounding services we provide could increase our costs of business or diminish business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our clients are subject to regulation that could affect our business. Our clients are subject to extensive regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to services we provide to the financial services industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry. Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. For example, our accounts in our Healthcare Services segment are impacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), including the Health Insurance Marketplace. The implementation the ACA is still in its early stages, and we cannot predict the impact it will have on our customers and their demand for our services. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to currency fluctuations and foreign political, economic and other conditions that could adversely affect our revenues from or support by foreign operations. Inherent risks in our international business activities could decrease our international sales and also could adversely affect our ability to receive important support from our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. These risks include potentially unfavorable foreign economic conditions, political conditions or national priorities, foreign government regulation, potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, the failure to bridge cultural differences, and limited or prohibited access to our foreign operations and the support they provide. We may also have difficulty repatriating any profits or be adversely affected by currency fluctuations in our international business. Various events may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. The nature of these events might inhibit our ability to anticipate and act in advance to counter them. We may be unsuccessful in determining or controlling when and whether events occur that could cause varying financial results. Unfavorable results may occur that we did not anticipate or take advance action to address. The various reasons our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate include unanticipated economic conditions, and costs for starting up significant client operations, for hiring staff, and for developing products. Our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of supplies, timing of license fees, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our products and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors new products or services. Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any such loss would have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our revenues could decrease if client contracts are terminated or fail to renew or if clients renegotiate contracts or utilize our services at lower than anticipated levels. We derive most of our revenue by selling products and services under long-term contracts, many of which contain terms and conditions based on anticipated levels of utilization of our services. We cannot unilaterally extend the terms of our client contracts when they expire. Contracts can terminate during the term of agreement for various reasons, including through termination for convenience clauses in some contracts that enable clients to cancel by written notice. Our revenues could decrease as a result of terminations or non-renewals of client contracts; extensions of client contracts under, or contract re-negotiations resulting in, less favorable terms; or utilization of services at less than anticipated levels. Our businesses expose us to risks of claims and losses that could be significant and damage our reputation and business prospects. Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a clients instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based, among other theories, upon various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our services, or cause us to make costly operating changes. We are substantially dependent on our intellectual property rights, and a claim for infringement or a requirement to indemnify a client for infringement could adversely affect us. We have made substantial investments in software and other intellectual property on which our business is highly dependent. Businesses we acquire also often involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges we face in protecting our strategic advantage. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. Our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad may not be adequate and others, including our competitors, may use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent available, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws; however, significant portions of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by patents. We also utilize nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and security measures to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee these measures will be effective. Our products and services rely on technology developed by others, including open source software, and we have no control over possible infringement of someone elses intellectual property rights by the provider of this technology. The owner of the rights could seek damages from us rather than or in addition to the persons who provide the technology to us. We could be subject at any time to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to evaluate and defend. Our clients may also face infringement claims, allege that such claims relate to our products and services, and seek indemnification from us. Any loss of our intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights of others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership. We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results. Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which could, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. We own interests in unconsolidated entities including Boston Financial Data Services, International Financial Data Services Limited Partnership, International Financial Data Services Limited, and various real estate joint ventures. Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which could restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. These arrangements could also allow us to purchase the other owners interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so. The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time. Our investments in funds and in other companies could decline in value. We hold significant investments in available-for-sale equity securities of other companies, primarily State Street Corporation, and other financial interests that are subject to fluctuations in market prices. A significant decline in the value of our equity investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them or than the value of the consideration used to acquire them. From time to time ALPS adds new investment strategies to its investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as seed capital. The seed capital investments may decline in value. A significant decline in their value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them. Various plans, agreements, laws and organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain plans and agreements, and applicable laws could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover, which is not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions include: super-majority stockholder approval required for certain actions; staggered terms for directors; specific procedures for stockholders to nominate new directors; the Boards authority to issue and set the terms of preferred stock; a stockholders rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors; various rights of joint venture co-owners, lenders and certain customers and executives in the event of a change in control; public reporting of ownership and of changes in ownership by stockholders with at least a 5% interest in us; and legal restrictions on business combinations with certain stockholders. Because of contractual commitments, a change in control could affect our operating results and weaken our management retention and incentive tools. A change in control of the Company would trigger various rights and obligations in service agreements with our customers and in agreements governing our joint ventures. A change in control could also allow some clients to terminate their agreements with us or to obtain rights to use our processing software. We are parties to joint venture agreements that allow other co-owners to buy our equity interests if we undergo a change in control. Under certain executive equity-based and other incentive compensation awards, benefit programs and employment agreements with our management, a change in control by itself, or an individuals termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason (each as defined in applicable 13 Table of Contents agreements) after a change in control could accelerate funding, payment or vesting of equity grants, as applicable, under such agreements and programs. This accelerated funding, vesting or payment may decrease an employees incentive to continue employment with us. We have adopted an executive severance plan which, among other things, provides benefits to participating senior officers and executives who are terminated in connection with a change of control. Certain other executive officers have agreements with us that require us to continue to employ them for three years after a change in control or to pay certain amounts if we terminate their employment without cause or they resign for good reason following a change in control. The executives might not be incented to achieve desired results for the new owners of our business, and the cost of keeping the executives on the payroll might deter potential new owners from acquiring us or hinder new owners from hiring replacement management. Our equity incentive and stockholders rights plans could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Our directors, officers and certain managers have received restricted stock units and options to purchase our common stock as part of their compensation. These equity grants could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors. A triggering of the rights plan could in some circumstances be dilutive in value to common stockholders who do not exercise their rights. We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Future cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. If we cannot successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our growth may be limited and our financial condition adversely affected. Our business strategy anticipates that we will supplement internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable businesses to acquire. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other complementary businesses. Information we obtain about an acquisition target may be limited and there can be no assurance that an acquisition will perform as expected or positively impact our financial performance. Potential acquisitions involve risk, including the risk we would be unable to effectively integrate the acquired technologies, operations and personnel into our business, and the risk that managements attention and our capital would be diverted from other areas of our business. The anticipated benefits of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the issuance of capital stock, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, our financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We are investing heavily in our technology, including hardware and software, to improve existing products and services and add new products and services to address the needs of existing or new clients. Our investments may not lead to successful deployment or increases in the number of accounts or transactions. If we are not successful in creating value from our investments by increasing sales or reducing expenses, our financial condition and prospects could be harmed. We have restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. If we do not comply with these restrictive covenants, our failure could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary investments, and asset dispositions, and require us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in reduced liquidity for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The following table provides certain summary information with respect to the principal properties owned or leased by the Company. We believe the facilities, office space and other properties owned or leased are adequate for our current operations. Location Use (1) Owned/ Leased (2) Square Feet Financial Services Segment (3) Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 455,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 334,000 Kansas City, MO Data Center Owned 162,000 St. Louis, MO Data Center Owned 109,000 Denver, CO Office Space Leased 97,000 Hyderabad, India Office Space Leased 111,000 Pune, India Office Space Leased 52,000 Bangkok, Thailand Office Space Leased 88,000 Melbourne, Australia Office Space Leased 38,000 London, United Kingdom Office Space Owned 20,000 Fifteen other locations Office Space Leased 50,000 Healthcare Services Segment (3) Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 158,000 Harrisburg, PA Office Space Leased 209,000 Birmingham, AL Office Space Leased 98,000 Two other locations Office Space Leased 18,000 Customer Communications Segment (3) El Dorado Hills, CA Production Owned 580,000 Kansas City, MO Production Owned 261,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 66,000 Hartford, CT Production Owned 302,000 Albany, NY Production Leased 136,000 Bristol, United Kingdom Production Owned 126,000 Dagenham, United Kingdom Production Leased 175,000 Nottingham, United Kingdom Production Leased 138,000 Jarrow, United Kingdom Production Leased 100,000 Peterborough, United Kingdom Production Leased 50,000 Toronto, Canada Production Owned 232,000 Ottawa, Canada Production Leased 13,000 Six other locations Office Space Leased 22,000 Investments and Other Segment (4) Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 344,000 Kansas City, MO Retail Owned 11,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 4,000 El Dorado Hills, CA Office Space Owned 48,000 London, United Kingdom Office Space Owned 35,000 London, United Kingdom Retail Owned 9,000 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Property specified as being used for production includes space used for manufacturing operations and warehouse space. (2) In addition, but not included in the above table, we own a number of surface parking facilities, an underground storage facility with 538,000 square feet located in Kansas City, Missouri, and approximately 200 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to our buildings in El Dorado Hills, California. (3) Includes approximately 2.0 million square feet of property owned or leased by our real estate subsidiaries, which are part of the Investments and Other segment. These properties are primarily leased to our other segments, including approximately 800,000 square 15 Table of Contents feet in the Financial Services segment and 1.2 million square feet in the Customer Communications segment. The Financial Services segment has sub-leased 8,000 square feet of office space to a third party. The Healthcare Services segment has sub-leased 65,000 square feet of office space to third-parties. The Customer Communications segment has sub-leased 73,000 square feet of office and production space to third-parties. (4) We lease, through our real estate subsidiaries, office and production space to various third-party tenants in Kansas City, Missouri, and the U.K. The number of square footage leased to third-parties in office and retail facilities is 191,000 , plus approximately 485,000 square feet leased to third parties at the underground storage facility. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses. While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. Executive Officers of the Company Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in our Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with our annual meeting of stockholders scheduled for May 12, 2015. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. Certain of the executive officers have employment agreements with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected as an officer, except with respect to the executive officers who have entered into employment agreements, which agreements designate the position or positions to be held by the executive officer. None of the executive officers are related to one another or to any of the members of the Board of Directors. Stephen C. Hooley , age 51, is our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. He became Chief Executive Officer on September 12, 2012. He joined the Company in mid2009 as President and Chief Operating Officer. He served from 2004 through mid2009 as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Financial Data Services (BFDS). He served from 2009 through April 2013 as nonexecutive Chairman of BFDS. From 2007 through March 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of IFDS L.P. Manoochehr Mike Abbaei , age 54, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and Head of Customer Communications leading our Customer Communications business in North America. He joined the Company in April 2011 as President of DST Brokerage Solutions, LLC, a Financial Services segment business serving brokerdealers. He had been, since July 2009, managing partner at Finix Business Strategies and CEO of Finix Converge LLC, each of which we acquired in April 2011. The Finix businesses engage in financial services consulting and social networking for corporations. As of March 19, 2014, Mr. Abbaei is no longer responsible for DST Brokerage Solutions but continues to lead the Finix businesses. Jonathan J. Boehm , age 54, is our Executive Vice President and Head of Healthcare Businesses. He rejoined the Company in 1997 after prior service in the early 1980s. Prior to becoming an Executive Vice President managing our healthcare businesses in 2009, he served as Group Vice President - Mutual Funds Full Service. He is responsible for our Healthcare Services segment, including DST HealthCare Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries DST Health Solutions and Argus Health Systems. Edmund J. Burke , age 54, is our Executive Vice President and President of ALPS. ALPS includes the Corporations investment management and asset servicing businesses. ALPS Holdings, Inc. became a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company during 2011. Mr. Burke joined ALPS in 1991 and has served as President since 2000. As part of his responsibilities for the ALPS group of companies, Mr. Burke is President and Trustee of Clough Global Allocation Fund, Clough Global Equity Fund and Clough Global Opportunities Fund; Trustee of Liberty AllStar Equity Fund; Director of Liberty AllStar Growth Fund, Inc., and Chairman of the Board and President of Financial Investors Trust. Each of these funds operates as a registered investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Simon N. HudsonLund, age 53, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and CEO of DST International Holdings. He joined the Company in February 2013 as Chief Executive Officer of DST International Holdings, which owns DST Bluedoor Pty Ltd, DST Process Solutions Limited and DST Output Limited, and as the Global Executive Chairman of 16 Table of Contents IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P. He has served in numerous positions with IFDS U.K., including as Chief Executive Officer (February 2008 through January 2013), Head of European Transfer Agent Operations (January 2011 through January 2013), Chief Operating Officer (July 2005 through January 2008), and Managing Director Administration ServicesClient Finance and Transfer Agent Operations (June 2003 through June 2005). In March 2013, he became Chief Executive Officer of IFDS L.P. Steven J. Towle , age 57, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and Head of Financial Services. He had served since 2004 as President and Chief Executive Officer of our U.S. Customer Communications business. Prior to joining the Company, he was BFDSs President and Chief Operating Officer during 2000 through 2003 and its Senior Vice President during 1997 through September 2000. Gregg Wm. Givens , age 54, is our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer in January of 2014. He joined the Company in 1996 as an officer and served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from 1999 through 2013. Vercie Lark , age 52, is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He joined the Company as Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2010 and assumed his current title in March 2014. He is responsible for our global information technology infrastructure and architecture functions, global information privacy and security, and global information technology sourcing. Mr. Lark previously served since July 2009 as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of CenturyLink, Inc., a provider of voice, broadband and video services. He had served since 2008 as the Chief Information Officer of Embarq Corporation, which was acquired in 2009 by CenturyLink. M. Elizabeth Sweetman , age 51, is Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. She joined the Company in June 2013 as a vice president and assumed her current title in March 2014. Prior to joining the Company, she had served since 2007 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for Furniture Brands International, a home furnishings designer and manufacturer that, following her departure from that company, filed for bankruptcy in September 2013. Randall D. Young , age 58, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in mid2013. Since 2002, he had served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He joined the Company as a Vice President in 1995. 17 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock trades under the symbol DST on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As of February 19, 2015 , there were approximately 35,000 beneficial owners of our common stock. In 2010, we began paying cash dividends on our common stock. Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by DSTs Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. The Board of Directors of DST unanimously determined to increase our dividend frequency from a semi-annual basis to a quarterly basis beginning in the first quarter of 2013. On January 28, 2015 , the DST Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share on DSTs common stock. The dividend will be payable on March 13, 2015 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 27, 2015 . Dividend High Low 2014 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 98.21 $ 85.82 2nd Quarter 0.30 95.71 84.77 3rd Quarter 0.30 92.90 83.67 4th Quarter 0.30 99.67 82.26 2013 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 70.42 $ 60.75 2nd Quarter 0.30 70.88 63.80 3rd Quarter 0.30 76.56 65.80 4th Quarter 0.30 91.04 74.70 The prices set forth above do not include commissions and do not necessarily represent actual transactions. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 2014 was $94.15 . Stock Repurchases The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of our common stock purchased by us during the quarter ended December 31, 2014 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total $ Amount of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Amount That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 - October 31 672,233 (1) $ 85.73 $ 57,622,806 $ 100,235,777 November 1 - November 30 476,902 (1) 98.01 46,572,373 53,663,404 December 1 - December 31 37,395 (1) 99.26 3,663,393 50,000,011 Total 1,186,530 $ 91.10 $ 107,858,572 $ 50,000,011 (2) _______________________________________________________________________ (1) For the three months ended December 31, 2014 , we purchased, in accordance with the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly the 1995 Stock Option and Performance Award Plan), 2,347 shares of our common stock for participant income tax withholding in conjunction with stock option exercises or from the vesting of restricted stock shares, as requested by the participants or from shares surrendered in satisfaction of option exercise price. These purchases were not made under the publicly-announced repurchase plans or programs, but were allowed by the rules of the Compensation Committee of the DST Board of Directors. Of these shares, 133 shares were purchased in October 2014 , 1,702 shares were purchased in November 2014 , and 512 shares were purchased in December 2014 . (2) During January 2015, we spent $50.0 million to purchase 525,000 shares which completed the existing share repurchase plan. On January 28, 2015, the DST Board of Directors authorized a new $250.0 million share repurchase plan. The plan allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. We may enter into one or more plans with our brokers or banks for pre-authorized purchases within defined limits pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 to affect all or a portion of such share repurchases. 18 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. The following graph shows the changes in value since December 31, 2009 of an assumed investment of $100 in: (i) DST Common Stock; (ii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap index (1) ; and (iii) the stocks that comprise a peer group of companies (Peer Group) (2) . The table following the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of December 31, 2014 and as of December 31 for each of the five preceding years. The value for the assumed investments depicted on the graph and in the table has been calculated assuming that cash dividends, if any, are reinvested at the end of each quarter in which they are paid. Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return As of December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 DST Systems, Inc $ 100.00 $ 103.29 $ 107.46 $ 145.12 $ 220.89 $ 232.12 S&P MidCap 400 Index 100.00 126.64 124.45 146.69 195.84 214.97 Peer Group 100.00 111.83 122.71 145.09 219.32 245.92 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Standard & Poors Corporation, an independent company, prepares the S&P 400 MidCap Index. (2) The companies included in the Peer Group are Alliance Data Systems Corp, Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., Convergys Corp, CSG Systems International, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., NCR Corp, Paychex, Inc., SEI Investments Co., TeleTech Holdings, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. DST selected the Peer Group based on comparable company information for DSTs industry developed by an independent compensation consultant with the input of the CFO. 19 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon and the other financial information included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2014 (1) 2013 (2) 2012 (3) 2011 (4) 2010 (5) Income Statement Data: (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pockets) $ 2,042.0 $ 1,960.6 $ 1,892.4 $ 1,744.0 $ 1,713.6 Income from operations 308.9 313.2 157.3 260.1 344.6 Other income, net 373.5 243.2 373.5 38.7 141.7 Income before income taxes and non-controlling interest 791.7 544.9 519.5 274.0 476.6 Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. 593.3 352.6 324.0 183.1 318.5 Basic earnings per share 14.82 8.15 7.22 4.01 6.78 Diluted earnings per share 14.66 8.00 7.08 3.95 6.73 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (6) 5.55 4.57 3.98 4.09 4.43 Cash dividends per share of common stock 1.20 1.20 0.80 0.70 0.60 December 31, 2014 (1) 2013 (2) 2012 (3) 2011 (4) 2010 (5) Balance Sheet Data: (dollars in millions) Total assets $ 2,942.9 $ 3,090.5 $ 3,392.5 $ 3,428.6 $ 3,339.4 Total debt 552.9 683.0 1,011.6 1,380.3 1,209.4 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) In 2014, we recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale of the wholly-owned subsidiary, DST Global Solutions, Ltd, which is included in Gain on sale of business in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $343.5 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2) In 2013, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $222.8 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (3) In 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $60.8 million associated with our U.K. Customer Communications business, which is included in Depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $293.7 million and dividend income from a private company investment of $48.4 million, both of which are included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (4) In 2011, we acquired the following businesses: ALPS Holdings, Inc., Newkirk Products, Inc., Lateral Group Limited, Intellisource Healthcare Solutions, Finix Business Strategies, LLC, Finix Converge, LLC and Subserveo, Inc. Additionally, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $17.2 million, which is included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (5) In 2010, we recognized $73.4 million of contract termination payment operating revenues resulting from the early termination of two client processing agreements. We recorded $70.8 million of net gains on securities and other investments and dividend income from a private equity investment of $54.7 million, both of which are included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (6) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the impact of certain items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or are non-operational items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. A description of the use of non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is below. 20 Table of Contents Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information In addition to reporting financial information on a GAAP basis, we have disclosed non-GAAP financial information which has been reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures in the following financial schedules titled Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share. In making these adjustments to determine the non-GAAP results, we take into account the impact of items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, that do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or that are non-operational in nature. Generally, these items include net gains on dispositions of business units, net gains (losses) associated with securities and other investments, restructuring and impairment costs, and other similar items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. Management uses non-GAAP measures in its budgeting and forecasting processes and to further analyze our financial trends and operational run-rate, as well as making financial comparisons to prior periods presented on a similar basis. We believe that providing such adjusted results allows investors and other users of our financial statements to better understand our comparative operating performance for the periods presented. DSTs management uses each of these non-GAAP financial measures in its own evaluation of our performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Our non-GAAP measures may differ from similar measures by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although our management believes non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating the performance of our business, we acknowledge that items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on our financial information calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP results. These factors should be considered when evaluating our results. Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 14.66 $ 8.00 $ 7.08 $ 3.95 $ 6.73 Net gains on securities and other investments (5.26 ) (3.14 ) (4.54 ) (0.23 ) (1.76 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates items (0.09 ) (0.10 ) (0.20 ) 0.06 Restructuring charges 0.26 0.03 0.51 0.08 0.27 Loss accruals (loss accrual reversal) (0.12 ) 0.06 0.04 0.08 Income tax items (0.91 ) (0.24 ) (0.40 ) (0.03 ) Charitable contribution of securities 0.01 (0.06 ) Business development/advisory expenses 0.09 0.02 0.06 Net gain on sale of business (2.64 ) Gain on contract to repurchase common stock (0.45 ) Contract termination payments received, net (0.08 ) (0.03 ) (0.87 ) Net losses on real estate assets 0.04 0.09 Goodwill impairment 1.33 Insurance Solutions asset impairment and other costs 0.11 Restructuring cost to amend sales/marketing agreements 0.10 Loss on repurchase of convertible debentures 0.02 0.09 Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 5.55 $ 4.57 $ 3.98 $ 4.09 $ 4.43 21 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Companys management, as of the date of this Annual Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other writings, including, but not limited to, in press releases, in the Annual Report and in the Companys other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, (i) all statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future or that depend on future events, or (ii) statements about our future business plans and strategy and other statements that describe the Companys outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Whenever used, words such as may, will, would, should, potential, strategy, anticipates, estimates, expects, project, predict, intends, plans, believes, targets and other terms of similar meaning are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are uncertain and to some extent unpredictable, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such forward-looking statements. If any of managements assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Companys actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. Introduction DST Systems, Inc. (we, our, us, the Company or DST) uses proprietary software applications to provide sophisticated information processing and servicing solutions through strategically unified business processing, data management, and customer communications solutions to clients globally within the asset management, brokerage, retirement, insurance and healthcare markets. Our wholly-owned data centers provide the secure technology infrastructure support necessary to support our solutions offerings. We manage our business through three operating segments, Financial Services, Healthcare Services and Customer Communications. Our investments in equity securities, private equity investments, real estate and certain financial interests have been aggregated into an Investments and Other segment. During 2014, we sold our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, DST Global Solutions Limited and certain related affiliates (Global Solutions). Global Solutions provides post-trade, middle-, and back-office investment management software applications, implementation and other professional services. Financial Services Segment DSTs proprietary software applications enable us to offer our customers information processing solutions that enable them to capture, analyze and report their investors transactions. Examples of the services we provide include tracking of purchases, redemptions, exchanges and transfers of shares; maintaining investor identification and ownership records; reconciling cash and share activity; processing dividends; reporting sales; performing tax and other compliance functions; and providing information for printing of investor trade confirmations, statements and year-end tax forms. Services are provided either under a software as a service (SaaS) model or on a business process outsourcing (BPO) basis either directly by DST or through BFDS, our domestic joint venture with State Street Corporation (State Street). Our BPO service offerings are enhanced by our proprietary workflow software, AWD, which is also licensed separately to third parties. In the U.S. we provide services to mutual funds, brokerage firms, retirement plans and alternative investment funds (such as real estate investment trusts). In Australia and the U.K., we license software solutions to funds and fund managers, who perform participant accounting and recordkeeping for the wealth management and retirement savings market. We also provide investor services on a SaaS and BPO basis internationally (U.K., Canada, Ireland and Luxembourg) solely through IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P. which are joint ventures with State Street. Financial Services fees are primarily charged to the client based on the number of accounts, participants or transactions processed. For subaccounts, a portion of the services we provide for registered accounts are provided directly by the broker/dealer. As a result, our revenue per account is generally higher for registered accounts than for subaccounts. On a more limited basis, we also generate revenue through asset-based fee arrangements and from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in our full service transfer agency bank accounts. We typically have multi-year agreements with our clients. We receive revenues for processing services and products provided under various agreements with unconsolidated affiliates. We 22 Table of Contents believe that the terms of our contracts with unconsolidated affiliates are fair to us and are no less favorable to us than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. Our operating revenues derived from sales to unconsolidated affiliates were $166.6 million , $170.5 million , and $171.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 , respectively. Healthcare Services Segment The Healthcare Services segment uses our proprietary software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. Our healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. We generally derive revenue from our pharmacy-solutions business on a transactional fee basis. Fees are earned on pharmacy claims processing and payments services, pharmacy and member call center services, pharmaceutical rebate administration, administration or management of clinical programs, pharmacy network management, member and plan web services and management information and reporting. Further, revenues include investment earnings related to client cash balances maintained in our bank accounts. Medical claim processing revenues are generally derived from fees charged based on a per member/per month basis and transactional basis. We also realize revenue from fixed-fee license agreements that include provisions for ongoing support and maintenance and for additional license payments in the event that usage or members increase. Additionally, we derive professional service revenues from fees for implementation services, custom programming and data center operations. Customer Communications Segment Within our Customer Communications segment, we offer a full range of integrated print, mail, and electronic solutions to customers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. We produce customized communications for our clients customers such as investment fund statements, explanation of health benefit statements, and monthly utility bills. We use proprietary and third- party software applications to provide the formatting, printing, mailing, electronic presentment and archiving of these types of communications. As one of the largest First-Class mailers in the U.S., we also provide a range of postal services to help clients optimize mail efficiencies and control postage expenses. Revenues in this segment are derived from presentation and delivery (either print or digital), mailing fees and archiving of customer documents, and are generally based on the number of images processed or packages mailed and the range of customization and personalization options chosen by the client. Investments and Other Segment The Investments and Other segment is comprised of our real estate subsidiaries and joint ventures, investments in equity securities, private equity investments and other financial interests. The assets held by this segment are primarily passive in nature. The Investments and Other segments revenues are derived from rental income from Company-owned and third-party real estate leases. Rental income from Company-owned real estate is recorded as revenue when, based on lease terms, it is earned. The Investments and Other segment records investment income (dividends, interest and net gains (losses) on investment securities) within Other income, net. The Investments and Other segment derives part of its income from its pro rata share in the earnings (losses) of certain unconsolidated affiliates. We pay lease payments to certain real estate joint ventures. Seasonality Generally, we do not have significant seasonal fluctuations in our business operations. Processing volumes for mutual fund customers within our Financial Services and Customer Communications segment are usually highest during the quarter ended March 31 due primarily to processing year-end transactions and printing and mailing of year-end statements and tax forms during January. We have historically added operating equipment in the last half of the year in preparation for processing year-end transactions, which has the effect of increasing costs for the second half of the year. Revenues and operating results from individual license sales vary depending on the timing and size of the contracts. New Authoritative Accounting Guidance In February 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update, Consolidated (Topic 810) - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. The new consolidation guidance changes the way reporting enterprises evaluate whether (a) they should consolidate limited partnerships and similar entities, (b) fees paid to a decision maker or service provider are variable interests in a variable interest entity (VIE), and (c) variable interests in a VIE held by related parties of the reporting enterprise require the reporting enterprise to consolidate the VIE. It also eliminates the VIE consolidation model based on majority exposure to variability that applied to certain investment companies and similar entities. 23 Table of Contents The guidance is effective for us for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We are currently evaluating the standard and the impact it will have on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standard, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This standard will replace the existing accounting standard for revenue recognition and is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early application of this standard is not permitted. This standard permits two transition approaches, either the retrospective transition method or the cumulative effect transition method. We are currently evaluating the standard, including which transition approach will be applied and the impact it will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity. This standard changes the requirements for reporting discontinued operations and modifies the disclosure requirements. This standard is effective prospectively for annual and interim periods after December 15, 2014. Early adoption of the standard is permitted for disposals that have not been reported in financial statements previously issued. We elected to early adopt this standard beginning in the third quarter 2014. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. This standard requires netting of unrecognized tax benefits against a deferred tax asset for a loss or other carryforward that would apply in settlement of the uncertain tax positions. This standard was effective prospectively for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant effect on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard update, Parents Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity. This standard requires the release of any cumulative translation adjustment into net income only upon complete or substantially complete liquidation of a controlling interest in a subsidiary or a group of assets within a foreign entity. Also, it requires the release of all or a pro rata portion of the cumulative translation adjustment to net income in the case of a sale of an equity-method investment that is a foreign entity. This standard was effective prospectively beginning January 1, 2014. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: revenue recognition; software capitalization and amortization; depreciation of fixed assets; valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill; accounting for investments; and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition We recognize revenue when it is realized or realizable and it is earned. The majority of our revenues are derived from computer processing and services and are recognized upon completion of the services provided. Software license fees, maintenance fees and other ancillary fees are recognized as services are provided or delivered and all customer obligations have been met. We generally do not have payment terms from customers that extend beyond one year. Revenue from operating leases is recognized monthly as the rent accrues. Billing for services in advance of performance is recorded as deferred revenue. We recognize revenue when the following criteria are met: 1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; 2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. If there is a customer-specific acceptance provision in a contract or if there is uncertainty about customer acceptance, the associated revenue is deferred until we have evidence of customer acceptance. 24 Table of Contents Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables (items) can be divided into more than one unit of accounting. An item can generally be considered a separate unit of accounting if both of the following criteria are met: 1) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a standalone basis and 2) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. Once separate units of accounting are determined, the arrangement consideration should be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. Relative selling price is obtained from sources such as vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE), which is based on the separate selling price for that or a similar item or from third-party evidence (TPE) such as how competitors have priced similar items. If such evidence is unavailable, we use our best estimate of the selling price (BESP), which includes various internal factors such as our pricing strategy and market factors. We derive over 90% of our revenues as a result of providing processing and services under contracts. The majority of the amount is billed on a monthly basis, generally with thirty-day collection terms. Revenues are recognized for monthly processing and services upon performance of the services. In the event a portion of the arrangement fees are due 12 months or more from the invoice date, we have concluded that the fees do not meet the criteria for being fixed or determinable. In these cases, we recognize the revenue as the fees become due. Our standard business practice is to bill monthly for development, consulting and training services on a time and materials basis. In some cases we bill a fixed fee for development and consulting services. For fixed fee arrangements, we recognize revenue on a proportionate performance basis. We derive less than 10% of our revenues from licensing products. We license our wealth management products, AWD products, healthcare administration processing software solutions and customer billing software solution products. Perpetual software license revenues are recognized at the time the contract is signed, the software is delivered and no future software obligations exist. Deferral of software license revenue billed results from delayed payment provisions, disproportionate discounts between the license and other services or the inability to unbundle certain services. Term software license revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement. While license fee revenues are not a significant percentage of our total operations, they can significantly impact earnings in the period in which they are recognized. Revenues from individual license sales depend heavily on the timing, size and nature of the contract. We recognize revenues for maintenance services ratably over the contract term, after collectibility has been reasonably assured. DST, through our wholly-owned subsidiary ALPS, may enter into arrangements with broker/dealers or other third parties to sell or market closed-end fund shares. Depending on the arrangement, ALPS may earn distribution fees for marketing and selling the underlying fund shares. Conversely, ALPS may incur distribution expenses, including structuring fees, finders fees and referral fees paid to unaffiliated broker/dealers or introducing parties for marketing and selling underlying fund shares of a closed-end fund sponsored by ALPS. While distribution revenues and expenses are not significant percentages of our operating revenues or costs and expenses, they can significantly impact operations and earnings in the period in which they are recognized. We have entered into various agreements with related parties, principally unconsolidated affiliates, to utilize our data processing facilities and computer software systems. We believe that the terms of our contracts with related parties are fair to us and are no less favorable than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. We assess collection based on a variety of factors, including past collection history with the customer and the credit-worthiness of the customer. We generally do not request collateral from our customers. If we determine that collection of revenues is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred and is recognized at the time it becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowances for billing adjustments and doubtful account expense are estimated as revenues are recognized. Allowances for billing adjustments are recorded as reductions in revenues and doubtful account expense is recorded within Costs and expenses. The annual amounts for these items are immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. Software capitalization and amortization We make substantial investments in software to enhance the functionality and facilitate the delivery of our processing services as well as our sale of licensed products. Purchased software is recorded at cost and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. We also develop a large portion of our software internally. We capitalize software development costs for computer software developed or obtained for internal use after the preliminary project phase has been completed and management has committed to funding the project. For computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed to third parties, we capitalize software development costs which are incurred after the products reach technological feasibility but prior to the general release of the product to customers. The capitalized software development costs are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. 25 Table of Contents Significant management judgment is required in determining what projects and costs associated with software development will be capitalized and in assigning estimated economic lives to the completed projects. Management specifically analyzes software development projects and analyzes the percentage of completion as compared to the initial plan and subsequent forecasts, milestones achieved and the commitment to continue funding the projects. Significant changes in any of these items may result in discontinuing capitalization of development costs, as well as immediately expensing previously capitalized costs. We review, on a quarterly basis, our capitalized software for possible impairment. Depreciation of fixed assets Our approach on personal property, specifically technology equipment, printing and inserting equipment, is to own the property as opposed to leasing it where practicable. We believe this approach provides us with better flexibility for disposing or redeploying the asset as it nears the completion of its economic life. We depreciate technology equipment using accelerated depreciation methods over the following lives: (1) non-mainframe equipmentthree years; (2) mainframe central processing unitfour years; and (3) mainframe direct access storage devices and tape devicesfive years. We depreciate furniture and fixtures over estimated useful lives, principally three to five years, using accelerated depreciation methods. We depreciate large printing and inserting equipment used by the Customer Communications segment over a five to seven year life using accelerated depreciation methods. We depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method over the lesser of the term of the lease or life of the improvements. Management judgment is required in assigning economic lives to fixed assets. Management specifically analyzes fixed asset additions, remaining net book values and gain/loss upon disposition of fixed assets to determine the appropriateness of assigned economic lives. Significant changes in any of these items may result in changes in the economic life assigned and the resulting depreciation expense. Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment. We evaluate the impairment of goodwill at least annually (as of October 1) and evaluate identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and related assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or our strategy for the overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When it is determined that the carrying value of intangibles, long-lived assets or goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we assess actual impairment based on gross cash flows. Our assessment of goodwill for impairment includes comparing the fair value to the net book value of our reporting units. We estimate fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow models and market approaches. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. To measure the amount of any impairment loss, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the affected reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we allocate the fair value of the affected reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. Our 2014 annual goodwill impairment test determined that the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeds its carrying value. Accounting for investments We have three significant types of investments: 1) investments in available-for-sale securities, the largest of which is our investment in State Street common stock; 2) investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is comprised principally of BFDS, IFDS U.K., IFDS L.P. and certain real estate joint ventures; and 3) investments in private equity funds and other investments accounted for under the cost method. We account for investments in entities in which we own less than 20% and do not have significant influence, in accordance with authoritative guidance related to accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities, which requires us to designate our investments as trading or available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and recorded net of deferred taxes directly to Accumulated other comprehensive income within Stockholders equity. We record an investment impairment charge for an investment with a gross unrealized holding loss resulting from a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an 26 Table of Contents investments current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our financial position. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where we are the limited partner) in which we have significant influence but do not control. We classify these investments as unconsolidated affiliates. Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of our investment and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate. The cost method of accounting is used for these investments when we have a de-minimus ownership percentage and do not have significant influence. Our cost method investments are held at the lower of cost or market. Accounting for income taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with authoritative accounting guidance. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, we recognize liabilities for potential tax exposures based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be required. If we ultimately determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary, then we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine that the liability is no longer necessary. We also recognize tax benefits to the extent that it is more likely than not that our positions will be sustained if challenged by the taxing authorities. To the extent we prevail in matters for which liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given period may be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require cash payments and may result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. We report interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions as income taxes. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results (millions, except per share amounts). Additional information regarding our segments is included below under the caption, Year to Year Business Segment Comparisons. Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs 2013 2013 vs 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 2,042.0 $ 1,960.6 $ 1,892.4 $ 81.4 4.2 % $ 68.2 3.6 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 707.3 698.0 684.2 9.3 1.3 % 13.8 2.0 % Total revenues 2,749.3 2,658.6 2,576.6 90.7 3.4 % 82.0 3.2 % Costs and expenses 2,309.4 2,202.1 2,202.9 107.3 4.9 % (0.8 ) % Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) 131.0 143.3 216.4 (12.3 ) (8.6 )% (73.1 ) (33.8 )% Income from operations 308.9 313.2 157.3 (4.3 ) (1.4 )% 155.9 99.1 % Interest expense (26.6 ) (34.5 ) (43.5 ) (7.9 ) (22.9 )% (9.0 ) (20.7 )% Gain on sale of business 100.5 100.5 100.0 % % Other income, net 373.5 243.2 373.5 130.3 53.6 % (130.3 ) (34.9 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 35.4 23.0 32.2 12.4 53.9 % (9.2 ) (28.6 )% Income before income taxes 791.7 544.9 519.5 246.8 45.3 % 25.4 4.9 % Income taxes 198.4 192.3 195.5 6.1 3.2 % (3.2 ) (1.6 )% Net income $ 593.3 $ 352.6 $ 324.0 $ 240.7 68.3 % $ 28.6 8.8 % Revenues Consolidated total revenues (including out-of-pocket (OOP) reimbursements) increased $90.7 million or 3.4% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 and increased $82.0 million or 3.2% during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012 . Consolidated operating revenues increased $81.4 million or 4.2% in 2014 as compared to 2013 and increased $68.2 million or 3.6% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . The operating revenue growth in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to increased operating revenues in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments, partially offset by a slight decline in operating revenues in the Customer Communications segment. The operating revenue growth in 2013 compared to 2012 was attributable to increased operating revenues in all three of our operating segments. Consolidated OOP reimbursements increased $9.3 million or 1.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013 and increased $13.8 million or 2.0% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . The net increase in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2014 is primarily attributable to new clients in the Customer Communications segment. The net increase in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2013 was attributable to higher volumes from new customers in the Customer Communications segment, partially offset by a decrease in the Financial Services segment attributable to lower registered accounts serviced. Costs and expenses Consolidated costs and expenses (including OOP reimbursements) increased $107.3 million or 4.9% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 and decreased $0.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $707.3 million in 2014 , an increase of $9.3 million as compared to 2013 and $698.0 million in 2013 , an increase of $13.8 million as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses increased $98.0 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 and decreased $14.6 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 . On this basis, the increase in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to increased costs and expenses in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments, partially offset by decreased costs and expenses in the Customer Communications segment. 28 Table of Contents As a result of market changes which have impacted our service offerings to clients, including lower registered account processing, we have implemented a restructuring initiative to reduce our workforce and consolidate certain facilities to enhance operational efficiency within the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments. As a result of this restructuring initiative, we incurred pretax charges during 2014 of $12.7 million ($8.5 million in Financial Services and $4.2 million in Customer Communications). We anticipate this restructuring initiative will result in annual pretax operating cost savings of approximately $13.0 million to $15.0 million, of which approximately 75% is expected to be realized in the Financial Services segment operations and the remaining will be realized within the Customer Communications segment. Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, the decrease in costs and expenses in 2013 as compared to 2012 was primarily related to decreased costs and expenses in the Customer Communication segment, partially offset by increased costs and expenses in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services Segments. Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) Consolidated deprecation and amortization decreased $12.3 million or 8.6% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 and decreased $73.1 million or 33.8% during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012 . The decrease in 2014 was primarily attributable to a decline within the Customer Communications segment, partially offset by increases in Financial Services and Healthcare Services Segment. The decrease in 2013 was primarily attributable to the 2012 goodwill impairment in the Customer Communications - U.K. reporting unit and other charges that did not recur in 2013. Income from operations Consolidated income from operations decreased $4.3 million or 1.4% to $308.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 and increased $155.9 million or 99.1% to $313.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The decrease in 2014 was primarily attributable to a decline within the Financial Services segment, partially offset by increases in the Healthcare Services, Customer Communications and Investments and Other segments. The increase in 2013 was primarily attributable to the 2012 goodwill impairment in the Customer Communications - U.K. reporting unit and other charges that did not recur in 2013. Interest expense Interest expense was $26.6 million , $34.5 million and $43.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Interest expense decreased 22.9% during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily from lower weighted-average debt balances outstanding. Interest expense decreased during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from lower weighted-average debt balances outstanding, as well as lower weighted-average interest rates. Gain on sale of business Effective November 30, 2014, we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary, Global Solutions for cash consideration of $95.0 million, subject to customary working capital post-closing adjustments. We recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale during 2014. Operating revenues generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold were approximately $61.4 million , $71.3 million and $76.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Operating income generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold were approximately $6.9 million , $10.0 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our pretax gain exceeded our sale proceeds primarily from the reclassification of cumulative translation adjustments due to the substantial liquidation of the foreign entities, partially offset by transaction costs. The carrying value of the entities sold was minimal. 29 Table of Contents Other income, net The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities $ 181.4 $ 193.0 $ 148.1 Net gains on private equity funds and other investments 27.8 31.2 9.3 Gain on sale of private company investment 103.6 138.7 Private company investment dividend 33.2 48.4 Gain on contract to repurchase shares of DST Common Stock 18.1 Dividend income 11.4 13.1 18.2 Interest income 1.8 3.6 4.1 Foreign currency gains (losses) (2.6 ) (6.6 ) 3.7 Miscellaneous items (1.2 ) 8.9 3.0 Other income, net $ 373.5 $ 243.2 $ 373.5 Included in the $181.4 million of net realized gains from the disposition of available for sale securities during 2014 is a $169.3 million gain from the sale of approximately 2.6 million shares of State Street Corporation. The 2013 net realized gains of $193.0 million includes gains of $130.3 million from the sale of approximately 2.3 million shares of State Street Corporation. The 2012 net realized gains of $148.1 million includes gains of $53.6 million from the sale of Computershare Ltd. shares, $38.0 million from the disposition of State Street Corporation shares and $31.3 million from the sale of Euronet Worldwide shares. We recorded a net gain on private equity funds and other investments of $27.8 million , $31.2 million and $9.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, primarily due to distributions received from certain of our private equity fund investments resulting in realized gains. We recorded $2.2 million , $0.6 million and $8.3 million of net impairments on private equity funds and other investments related to adverse market conditions and poor performance of the underlying investments during the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments and may require an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our net income. We recorded gains of $103.6 million and $138.7 million on the sales of our investment in a privately-held company during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2012 , respectively. We also received cash dividends of $33.2 million and $48.4 million from the private company investment during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2012 , respectively. We have no remaining investment in this private company at December 31, 2014. We repurchased $200.0 million of our common stock from a group of stockholders including George L. Argyros, Julia A. Argyros, and certain of their affiliates (collectively, the Argyros Group or Argyros) during 2014. The price paid per share was determined in connection with the secondary offering of Argyros DST common stock in May 2014. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. We receive dividend income from certain investments held. Dividends received from State Street common stock were $6.6 million , $8.4 million and $9.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. State Street Corporation quarterly dividend per common share was $0.24 per share in 2012 , and then increased to $0.26 per share in 2013 , and had a further increase to $0.30 per share in 2014 . 30 Table of Contents Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Boston Financial Data Services, Inc. $ 5.1 $ 8.2 $ 10.2 International Financial Data Services (U.K. and L.P.) 19.1 9.7 21.9 Other unconsolidated affiliates 11.2 5.1 0.1 Total $ 35.4 $ 23.0 $ 32.2 Equity in earnings of BFDS decreased $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . The decrease was primarily attributable to lower shareowner processing revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced, partially offset by higher revenues from ancillary services. Favorable reductions in BFDS operating expenses were largely offset by investments in ancillary product offerings and severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken during 2014. Equity in earnings of BFDS decreased $2.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The decrease was primarily from lower revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced and lower interest income, partially offset by the recognition of a deferred gain from the 2013 sale of an investment in Cofunds, Ltd. of $1.1 million . Equity in earnings of IFDS increased $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 , as compared to 2013 primarily attributable to revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of the previously announced new wealth management clients in the U.K. These multi-year implementation efforts for the two new clients are continuing to progress and are expected to be completed in phases. Earnings will continue to be impacted by the rate of progress related to the conversions and therefore may not be consistent period to period throughout the implementation and conversion process. IFDS continues to incur significant costs to develop the new wealth management platform for the U.K. market and expand its infrastructure to prepare for the addition of these new clients and associated service offerings. Equity in earnings of IFDS decreased $12.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 , primarily attributable to the $14.8 million gain (DSTs share) on IFDS Canadas sale of a real estate partnership in 2012, partially offset by the recognition of a $6.3 million gain (DSTs share) on IFDS U.K.s sale of an equity method investment in Cofunds, Ltd. in 2013. The remaining decline is primarily due to costs associated with the establishment of new service offerings, which include the development and build-out of a wealth management platform for the U.K. marketplace utilizing our Bluedoor technology, partially offset by higher revenues from increased accounts serviced. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 23.8 million at December 31, 2014 , an increase of 2.0 million accounts or 9.2% as compared to December 31, 2013 . The increase was primarily due to new client conversions, including a client in Canada that converted approximately 650,000 new accounts during 2014. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 21.8 million at December 31, 2013 , an increase of 1.1 million accounts or 5.3% as compared to December 31, 2012 . Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $11.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $6.1 million as compared to 2013 . The increase was primarily due to the sale of our investment in an unconsolidated affiliate which resulted in a gain of $5.7 million. Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $5.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $5.0 million as compared to 2012 . Our other unconsolidated affiliates recorded $4.1 million of real estate impairments in 2012. Additional condensed financial information of our significant operating unconsolidated affiliates, BFDS and IFDS, is presented below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Total revenues $ 1,111.0 $ 912.7 $ 862.1 Costs and expenses 1,009.7 855.1 795.7 Depreciation and amortization 39.1 30.4 27.5 Income from operations 62.2 27.2 38.9 Non-operating income 3.4 23.1 48.0 Income before income taxes 65.6 50.3 86.9 Income taxes 17.0 14.7 22.6 Net income $ 48.6 $ 35.6 $ 64.3 31 Table of Contents Income taxes Our effective tax rate was 25.1% , 35.3% and 37.6% for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The effective tax rates in each of the three years ended December 31, 2014 were affected by tax benefits relating to certain international operations and recognition of state tax benefits associated with income apportionment rules. In addition, our income tax rate for 2014 was favorably impacted by the reversal of $30.3 million of uncertain tax position liabilities, net of additions, primarily related to statute expirations. Our effective income tax rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by a $16.1 million benefit from the completion of the IRS examination of previously filed federal income tax refund claims for Domestic Manufacturing Deductions under Internal Revenue Code Section 199 and research and experimentation credits for the periods 2006 through 2009. The 2013 effective tax rate also included a tax expense of $7.5 million relating to an increase in the overall incremental U.S. tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings previously considered permanently reinvested. Our income tax rate for 2012 included benefits from the favorable IRS resolution of certain research and experimentation credits and domestic manufacturing deduction of $18.3 million and the charitable contribution of appreciated securities of approximately $5.0 million, partially offset by lower tax credits. Excluding the effect of discrete period items, we expect our tax rate to be approximately 36% in 2015 . The 2015 tax rate can be affected as a result of variances among the estimates and amounts of 2015 sources of taxable income (e.g., domestic consolidated, joint venture and/or international), the realization of tax credits, adjustments which may arise from the resolution of tax matters under review and our assessment of our liability for uncertain tax positions. 32 Table of Contents YEAR TO YEAR BUSINESS SEGMENT COMPARISONS FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Financial Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 1,054.2 $ 1,004.3 $ 978.6 $ 49.9 5.0 % $ 25.7 2.6 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 51.5 44.4 49.7 7.1 16.0 % (5.3 ) (10.7 )% Total revenues 1,105.7 1,048.7 1,028.3 57.0 5.4 % 20.4 2.0 % Costs and expenses 847.5 772.8 777.0 74.7 9.7 % (4.2 ) (0.5 )% Depreciation and amortization 68.2 65.1 74.3 3.1 4.8 % (9.2 ) (12.4 )% Income from operations $ 190.0 $ 210.8 $ 177.0 $ (20.8 ) (9.9 )% $ 33.8 19.1 % Operating margin 18.0 % 21.0 % 18.1 % The following table summarizes the Financial Services segments statistical metrics (in millions, except as noted): December 31, 2014 2013 2012 U.S. mutual fund shareowner accounts processed: Registered accounts - non tax-advantaged 29.6 30.6 34.3 IRA mutual fund accounts 22.3 23.0 23.5 Other retirement accounts 8.1 8.3 8.5 Section 529 and Educational IRAs 8.8 9.3 9.4 Registered accounts - tax-advantaged 39.2 40.6 41.4 Total registered accounts 68.8 71.2 75.7 Subaccounts 28.6 25.7 12.4 Total 97.4 96.9 88.1 International mutual fund shareowner accounts processed: IFDS U.K. 11.3 10.2 9.4 IFDS L.P. (Canada) 12.5 11.6 11.3 Total 23.8 21.8 20.7 Defined contribution participant accounts 7.2 6.9 6.1 ALPS (in billions of U.S. dollars) : Assets Under Management $ 15.3 $ 11.8 $ 8.3 Assets Under Administration $ 176.9 $ 147.7 $ 101.9 Automatic Work Distributor workstations (in thousands) 212.5 209.7 207.6 33 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Changes in registered accounts: Beginning balance 71.2 75.7 85.1 New client conversions 0.4 0.5 Subaccounting conversions to DST platforms (0.6 ) (1.6 ) (2.8 ) Subaccounting conversions to non-DST platforms (1.9 ) (3.5 ) (6.3 ) Conversions to non-DST platforms (1.0 ) (0.2 ) (0.9 ) Organic growth 1.1 0.4 0.1 Ending balance 68.8 71.2 75.7 Changes in subaccounts: Beginning balance 25.7 12.4 14.6 New client conversions 5.7 0.1 Conversions from non-DST registered platforms 0.7 1.5 0.3 Conversions from DSTs registered accounts 0.6 1.6 2.8 Conversions to non-DST platforms (6.1 ) Organic growth 1.6 4.5 0.7 Ending balance 28.6 25.7 12.4 Changes in defined contribution participant accounts: Beginning balance 6.9 6.1 5.1 New client conversions 0.3 1.3 0.9 Client losses (0.1 ) Organic growth (decline) (0.5 ) 0.2 Ending balance 7.2 6.9 6.1 Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Revenues Financial Services segment total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $1,105.7 million , an increase of $57.0 million or 5.4% as compared to 2013 . Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,054.2 million reflect an increase of $49.9 million or 5.0% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . Financial Services segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $51.5 million , an increase of $7.1 million as compared to 2013 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily from higher operating revenues within our ALPS business. ALPS operating revenues increased over the comparable prior year periods as a result of net positive funds flow and favorable market conditions which have contributed to the growth of assets under management within the ALPS proprietary funds and increases in other ALPS distribution and services revenues. Also contributing to the increased operating revenues was an increase in subaccounts processed as a result of organic growth from existing clients and new clients. Excluding a $6.0 million contract termination payment received in 2013, our operating revenues from retirement solutions increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 principally from higher professional services fee revenue and higher participants as a result of the conversion of new clients. Operating revenues also increased in 2014 due to higher professional services revenue from the implementation and configuration of new wealth management clients. The increase in Financial Services operating revenues were partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. Financial Services operating revenues included approximately $41.2 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $3.1 million as compared to 2013 . The growth in operating revenues was partially offset by the sale of Global Solutions on November 30, 2014. Global Solutions operating revenue decreased $9.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to one less month of operations in 2014. We also experienced decreased revenue from our U.S. registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions. Registered accounts serviced at December 31, 2014 decreased 2.4 million or 3.4% from December 31, 2013 . We estimate that an additional four to five million registered accounts will convert to subaccounts during 2015. We have been informed that certain broker/dealers may convert 34 Table of Contents certain tax-advantaged accounts to a subaccounting platform, however, the timing and number of accounts is not currently known. The number of accounts estimated to convert from various DST platforms is based upon information obtained from clients. There are a variety of factors that will affect the number and timing of registered accounts converted to subaccounts. Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $847.5 million , an increase of $74.7 million as compared to 2013 . Costs and expenses in the Financial Services segment are primarily comprised of compensation and benefit costs, but also include technology related expenditures and reimbursable operating expenses. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $51.5 million in 2014 , an increase of $7.1 million as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $796.0 million for 2014 , an increase of $67.6 million as compared to 2013 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2014 was primarily from increased costs to support higher revenues, higher costs associated with the new business initiatives associated with the growth of ALPS asset gathering business, and investments to further develop the Applied Analytics and brokerage solutions service offerings. In addition, costs increased due to enhancing our regulatory, compliance and security programs. We also incurred higher restructuring charges and advisory and other transaction costs during 2014, primarily as a result of a $13.0 million charge resulting primarily from the restructuring event implemented during 2014 to reduce our workforce and consolidate certain facilities to enhance operational efficiency within the Financial Services segment and $5.6 million of advisory and other transaction costs incurred in connection with the agreement reached with Argyros in 2014. These increases in costs and expenses were partially offset by lower mark-to-market losses on deferred compensation liabilities (the effect of which is offset within other income), changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies and lower expenses associated with the fund launched by ALPS of $2.8 million in 2013 that did not recur in 2014. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $68.2 million , an increase of $3.1 million or 4.8% as compared to 2013 . The increase in 2014 was primarily from higher capital expenditures. Income from operations Financial Services segment income from operations for 2014 was $190.0 million , a decrease of $20.8 million or 9.9% as compared to 2013 . The decrease in Financial Services income from operations was primarily from higher operating expenses to support incremental revenues and new business initiatives as well as increased risk, compliance and security costs, partially offset by higher operating revenues and $11.0 million of lower mark-to-market losses. Global Solutions, which was sold as of November 30, 2014, had $3.0 million less operating income in 2014 than during the full year 2013. Additionally, income from operations during 2013 included a $6.0 million contract termination payment that did not recur in 2014. Comparison of 2013 versus 2012 results Revenues Financial Services segment total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $1,048.7 million , an increase of $20.4 million or 2.0% as compared to 2012 . Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,004.3 million increased $25.7 million or 2.6% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily attributable to increased operating revenues from ALPS, brokerage solutions, retirement solutions, and wealth management, partially offset by lower operating revenues from our U.S. registered shareowner account processing and lower software license revenues. Operating revenues also decreased from changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. The increased revenue at ALPS was due to organic growth at existing clients, favorable market conditions and revenues from new clients during 2013. Revenues also increased from brokerage solutions conversions of new clients and organic growth from existing clients along with higher wealth management solutions software license sales and professional services revenue associated with the expansion into the U.K. market. Retirement solutions operating revenues during 2013 increased as compared to 2012 primarily from higher defined contribution participants processed as new clients were converted, partially offset by reductions in participants serviced due to the annual removal of prior year terminated participants. Operating revenues were also favorably impacted by a $6.0 million contract termination payment received from partial termination of a retirement solutions client during 2013. 35 Table of Contents Operating revenues from Global Solutions and our business process and document management businesses, including AWD, decreased during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from lower software license revenues and professional services. Global Solutions had higher perpetual software license sales and associated professional service revenue in 2012 that did not recur in 2013. Financial Services operating revenues included approximately $38.1 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 , a decrease of $5.0 million as compared to 2012 . Registered accounts serviced at December 31, 2013 decreased 4.5 million accounts or 5.9% from December 31, 2012 . During 2013 , approximately 5.1 million registered accounts converted to subaccounting platforms of which 1.6 million converted to DSTs platform. Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $772.8 million , a decrease of $4.2 million as compared to 2012 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $44.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , a decrease of $5.3 million as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $728.4 million for 2013 , an increase of $1.1 million as compared to 2012 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2013 was primarily from higher costs to support the increased revenues, increased deferred compensation (offset as unrealized gains on trading securities in other income) and $2.8 million incurred for the launch of a new closed-end fund at ALPS, which were partially offset by lower employee termination expenses and lower costs as a result of exiting the insurance processing solutions business in 2012. Costs and expenses also decreased from changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $65.1 million , a decrease of $9.2 million or 12.4% as compared to 2012 . The decrease in 2013 was primarily the result of a $5.8 million asset impairment charge incurred in 2012 which did not recur in 2013 and lower capitalized software costs. Income from operations Financial Services segment income from operations for 2013 was $210.8 million , an increase of $33.8 million or 19.1% as compared to 2012 . The increase in Financial Services income from operations was from higher operating revenues including the receipt of a $6.0 million partial contract termination payment, partially offset by increased deferred compensation plan costs and ALPS fund launch expenses during 2013. The increase was also the result of employee termination costs and other costs in 2012 that did not recur in 2013. HEALTHCARE SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Healthcare Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 382.2 $ 333.3 $ 300.6 $ 48.9 14.7 % $ 32.7 10.9 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 6.8 6.2 5.1 0.6 9.7 % 1.1 21.6 % Total revenues 389.0 339.5 305.7 49.5 14.6 % 33.8 11.1 % Costs and expenses 308.5 270.5 255.9 38.0 14.0 % 14.6 5.7 % Depreciation and amortization 19.5 19.3 17.7 0.2 1.0 % 1.6 9.0 % Income from operations $ 61.0 $ 49.7 $ 32.1 $ 11.3 22.7 % $ 17.6 54.8 % Operating margin 16.0 % 14.9 % 10.7 % 36 Table of Contents The following tables summarize the Healthcare Services segments statistical metrics (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 2012 DST Health Solutions covered lives 24.2 23.5 23.3 Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Argus pharmacy paid claims 486.6 444.0 400.7 Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Revenues Healthcare Services segment total revenues of $389.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 reflect an increase of $49.5 million or 14.6% as compared to 2013 . Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $382.2 million reflect an increase of $48.9 million or 14.7% in 2014 compared to 2013 . Healthcare Services segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $6.8 million , an increase of $0.6 million or 9.7% as compared to 2013 . The increase in operating revenue during the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily from increased pharmacy claims processing revenues principally due to growth in Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare exchange members at existing clients. The continued increase in Medicare Part D members is primarily the result of more eligible members as more individuals are reaching age 65 than in the past. Membership is also positively impacted as individuals are generally living longer and the government is offering tax incentives for companies to promote participation in healthcare plans. Revenues were also higher than in the prior year as a result of increases in discount card services and higher service level incentives earned. Operating revenues also increased from medical claims transaction volume growth from new and existing clients, higher medical claim business process outsourcing revenues and increased software license sales. Operating revenues included approximately $8.6 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $1.0 million as compared to 2013 . During 2013, one of our top five customers notified us that it would not renew its contract with us. Effective January 2015, this customer deconverted approximately 40% of their business with us. The remainder of the deconversion is expected to occur in stages over the next two years. Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $308.5 million , an increase of $38.0 million as compared to 2013 . Costs and expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits costs but also include technology-related expenditures. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $6.8 million in 2014 , an increase of $0.6 million as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $301.7 million for 2014 , an increase of $37.4 million as compared to 2013 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2014 was primarily from increased staffing costs, higher client conversion and implementation costs and higher claim processing costs due to the increased volume and complexity of transactions processed. The increase in costs was also impacted by an incremental $6.4 million estimated liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors identified for certain pharmacy claim transactions. Additionally, the year ended December 31, 2014 was impacted by the resolution of a regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million. During 2013, the loss accrual for this matter was increased by $2.5 million based upon our best estimate of the potential liability at that time. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $19.5 million , an increase of $0.2 million or 1.0% as compared to 2013 . Income from operations Healthcare Services segment income from operations for 2014 was $61.0 million , an increase of $11.3 million or 22.7% as compared to 2013 . The increase in income from operations was primarily attributable to higher revenues and the $6.5 million impact year-over-year from the resolution of a regulatory inquiry, partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to complete new client implementations and to service the increased transaction volumes. The increase in operating income was also partially offset by a $6.4 million increase in processing error costs in 2014 as compared with 2013. 37 Table of Contents Comparison of 2013 versus 2012 results Revenues Healthcare Services segment total revenues of $339.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased $33.8 million or 11.1% as compared to 2012 . Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $333.3 million increased $32.7 million or 10.9% as compared to 2012 . Healthcare Services segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $6.2 million , an increase of $1.1 million or 21.6% as compared to 2012 . The increase in operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily attributable to a 10.8% increase in pharmacy claims paid associated with increased Medicare and Medicaid members and higher pharmacy discount card services. Operating revenues also increased as a result of organic growth at existing clients and new full service clients that successfully converted to our medical claims processing platform during 2013 . Operating revenues included approximately $7.6 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $1.8 million as compared to 2012 , principally from new healthcare exchange software licenses sold in 2013 . Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $270.5 million , an increase of $14.6 million as compared to 2012 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $6.2 million in 2013 , an increase of $1.1 million as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $264.3 million for 2013 , an increase of $13.5 million as compared to 2012 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2013 was primarily from increased personnel costs to support higher volumes of revenue and higher costs associated with new business initiatives, partially offset by lower employee termination costs. The increase was also due to a $2.5 million loss accrual recorded during 2013 related to a regulatory inquiry into the processing of certain pharmacy claims from 2006 to 2009. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $19.3 million , an increase of $1.6 million or 9.0% as compared to 2012 . The increase in 2013 was primarily the result of higher internally developed capitalized software. Income from operations Healthcare Services segment income from operations for 2013 was $49.7 million , an increase of $17.6 million or 54.8% as compared to 2012 . The increase in Healthcare Services income from operations was from higher pharmacy claims paid associated with increased Medicare and Medicaid members and higher medical claim processing revenues from new and existing clients, partially offset by increased personnel costs to support the higher volumes of revenue. 38 Table of Contents CUSTOMER COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Customer Communications segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 650.5 $ 660.5 $ 650.0 $ (10.0 ) (1.5 )% $ 10.5 1.6 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 659.1 654.7 636.7 4.4 0.7 % 18.0 2.8 % Total revenues 1,309.6 1,315.2 1,286.7 (5.6 ) (0.4 )% 28.5 2.2 % Costs and expenses 1,218.7 1,220.2 1,214.9 (1.5 ) (0.1 )% 5.3 0.4 % Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) 37.6 44.0 107.4 (6.4 ) (14.5 )% (63.4 ) (59.0 )% Income (loss) from operations $ 53.3 $ 51.0 $ (35.6 ) $ 2.3 4.5 % $ 86.6 (243.3 )% Operating margin 8.2 % 7.7 % (5.5 )% Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating Revenues North America $ 454.8 $ 470.7 $ 455.2 $ (15.9 ) (3.4 )% $ 15.5 3.4 % United Kingdom 195.7 189.8 194.8 5.9 3.1 % (5.0 ) (2.6 )% Customer Communications segment $ 650.5 $ 660.5 $ 650.0 $ (10.0 ) (1.5 )% $ 10.5 1.6 % Income (Loss) from Operations North America $ 48.1 $ 48.2 $ 43.5 $ (0.1 ) (0.2 )% $ 4.7 10.8 % United Kingdom 5.2 2.8 (79.1 ) 2.4 85.7 % 81.9 (103.5 )% Customer Communications segment $ 53.3 $ 51.0 $ (35.6 ) $ 2.3 4.5 % $ 86.6 (243.3 )% The following table summarizes the Customer Communications segments statistical metrics (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Customer Communications Images Produced North America 8,713.2 9,448.0 9,444.4 United Kingdom 2,125.1 1,999.5 2,163.1 Total 10,838.3 11,447.5 11,607.5 Customer Communications Packages Mailed North America 1,888.9 2,206.6 2,185.4 United Kingdom 836.7 724.4 752.4 Total 2,725.6 2,931.0 2,937.8 Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Revenues Customer Communications segment total revenues were $1,309.6 million and $1,315.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Operating revenues decreased $10.0 million or 1.5% to $650.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . Customer Communications segment OOP reimbursements revenue increased $4.4 million or 0.7% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . Customer Communications North America operating revenues decreased $15.9 million or 3.4% to $454.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . The decrease was primarily from reduced volumes as a result of organic 39 Table of Contents declines at existing clients and previously announced client losses. The organic decline in revenues from our existing clients was due to a number of factors including client efforts to migrate to electronic presentment, to suppress sheets per package or to send statements less frequently. This decrease was partially offset by higher electronic solutions and postal service solutions revenue. We also had an increase in revenue late in 2014 as we began processing volumes for a new client, which we anticipate will result in approximately 350 million additional packages processed on an annual basis once fully transitioned. We will continue to transition additional applications for this new client throughout 2015. In 2014 , Customer Communications U.K. operating revenues increased $5.9 million , primarily due to the higher volumes from new and existing clients and favorable currency exchange rates movements. Costs and expenses Customer Communications segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased $1.5 million or 0.1% to $1,218.7 million as compared to 2013 . Costs and expenses in the Customer Communications segment are primarily comprised of reimbursable operating expenses (primarily postage and freight), compensation and benefits costs, material costs (principally paper and ink) and other operating costs. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $659.1 million during 2014 , an increase of $4.4 million or 0.7% as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses decreased $5.9 million or 1.0% during 2014 . On this basis, Customer Communications North America costs and expenses decreased $11.4 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily from reduced costs associated with the operating revenue decline partially offset by higher restructuring charges including employee termination and lease exit costs and increased costs from higher variable expenses due to the processing for a new client beginning in November 2014. Customer Communications U.K. costs and expenses increased $5.5 million primarily due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and higher operating costs to support the increased volume of work. Depreciation and amortization Customer Communications segment depreciation and amortization expense was $37.6 million and $44.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. This $6.4 million decrease in 2014 as compared to 2013 is primarily attributable to lower capital expenditures during 2013. Customer Communications North America depreciation and amortization decreased $4.4 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 and Customer Communications U.K. depreciation and amortization decreased $2.0 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 . Income from operations Customer Communications segment income from operations was $53.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $2.3 million compared to 2013 . Customer Communications North America income from operations decreased $0.1 million and Customer Communications U.K. increased $2.4 million . The decrease in Customer Communications North America was primarily due to lower revenues, largely offset by reduced operating costs. The decrease in Customer Communications U.K. income from operations was primarily due to increased revenues and lower depreciation, partially offset by higher operating costs. Comparison of 2013 versus 2012 results Revenues Customer Communications segment total revenues were $1,315.2 million and $1,286.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Operating revenues increased $10.5 million or 1.6% to $660.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase was primarily attributable to revenues from new clients, partially offset by lower volumes from existing clients and client losses. The organic declines from our existing clients was due to a number of factors including client efforts to migrate to electronic presentment, to suppress sheets per package or to send statements less frequently. Customer Communications segment OOP reimbursements revenue increased $18.0 million or 2.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . The net increase in 2013 was primarily attributable to the higher volumes from new client volumes. Customer Communications North America operating revenues increased $15.5 million or 3.4% to $470.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase was primarily attributable to new client volumes. Customer Communications U.K. operating revenues decreased $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 as a result of lower images produced, changes in the mix of clients serviced due to client losses from the closure of certain operating plants and foreign exchange movement. 40 Table of Contents Costs and expenses Customer Communications segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased $5.3 million or 0.4% to $1,220.2 million as compared to 2012 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $654.7 million during 2013 , an increase of $18.0 million or 2.8% as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, Customer Communications segment costs and expenses decreased $12.7 million during 2013 . On this basis, Customer Communications North America costs and expenses increased $10.7 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from higher operating costs associated with an increased workforce to support new clients and conversion activities as well as higher material costs from higher volumes of operating revenues. Customer Communications U.K. costs and expenses decreased $23.4 million primarily due to employee termination expenses and lease abandonment costs associated with consolidating facilities that were incurred in 2012 that did not recur in 2013, foreign exchange movement, as well as the reversal of $2.5 million of lease obligation liabilities that were extinguished during 2013. Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) Customer Communications segment depreciation and amortization expense was $44.0 million and $107.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, a decrease of $63.4 million or 59.0% in 2013 as compared to 2012. Depreciation and amortization in 2012 included a goodwill impairment of the Customer Communications U.K. reporting unit in the amount of $60.8 million . Excluding the goodwill impairment, depreciation and amortization decreased $2.6 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 . North America depreciation and amortization increased $0.1 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 and U.K. depreciation and amortization decreased $2.7 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 , attributable to lower levels of assets due to closing certain operating locations in 2012. Income from operations Customer Communications segment income from operations was $51.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $86.6 million compared to 2012 . Customer Communications North America income from operations increased $4.7 million and the operating income from Customer Communications U.K. decreased $81.9 million . The increase in Customer Communications North America was from higher operating revenues due to new client volumes, partially offset by higher costs associated with an increased workforce to support new clients and conversion activities. The increase in Customer Communications U.K. was primarily attributable to the goodwill impairment of $60.8 million in 2012 that did not recur. The increase in the U.K. was also attributable to lower employee compensation expenses resulting from reduced headcount and lower facility costs due to closing certain operating locations in 2012. INVESTMENTS AND OTHER SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Investments and Other segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 2014 2013 2012 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 56.8 $ 57.2 $ 58.9 $ (0.4 ) (0.7 )% $ (1.7 ) (2.9 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 100.0 % (0.2 ) (66.7 )% Total revenues 57.0 57.3 59.2 (0.3 ) (0.5 )% (1.9 ) (3.2 )% Costs and expenses 35.8 30.0 47.9 5.8 19.3 % (17.9 ) (37.4 )% Depreciation and amortization 8.2 17.5 19.6 (9.3 ) (53.1 )% (2.1 ) (10.7 )% Income (loss) from operations $ 13.0 $ 9.8 $ (8.3 ) $ 3.2 32.7 % $ 18.1 (218.1 )% Operating margin 22.9 % 17.1 % (14.1 )% 41 Table of Contents Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Revenues Investments and Other segment total revenues, including out-of-pocket reimbursements, were $57.0 million and $57.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Revenues are primarily derived from real estate activities. The majority of the real estate revenues are derived from the lease of facilities to our other business segments. Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pocket reimbursements) were $56.8 million and $57.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The decrease in operating revenues during 2014 as compared to 2013 was attributable to decreased rental activities as the result of selling real estate assets occupied by third parties. Costs and expenses Occupancy costs are generally the largest costs included in costs and expenses in the Investments and Other segment. Investments and Other segment costs and expenses were $35.8 million and $30.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, an increase of $5.8 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily related to a $4.2 million gain on the sale of real estate which reduced costs and expenses during 2013. Depreciation and amortization Investments and Other segment depreciation and amortization was $8.2 million and $17.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization decreased $9.3 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily attributable to impairments related to non-operating real estate assets of $7.4 million recorded in 2013. The remaining decline in depreciation was due to the sale of certain properties during 2014. Income from operations Investments and Other segment had income from operations of $13.0 million and $9.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Income from operations increased $3.2 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 , primarily from lower depreciation expenses partially offset by lower occupancy revenues and higher occupancy costs. Comparison of 2013 versus 2012 results Revenues Investments and Other segment total revenues, including out-of-pocket reimbursements, were $57.3 million and $59.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pocket reimbursements) were $57.2 million and $58.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The decrease in operating revenues during 2013 as compared to 2012 was attributable to decreased rental activities associated with the sale of leased properties. Costs and expenses Occupancy costs are generally the largest costs included in costs and expenses in the Investments and Other segment; however, during 2012 a charitable contribution of State Street securities was made in the amount of $11.0 million. Investments and Other segment costs and expenses were $30.0 million and $47.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Excluding the 2012 charitable donation, costs and expenses decreased $6.9 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily attributable to higher gains on the sale of real estate, lower occupancy costs and $1.8 million of leased facility abandonment charges in 2012 that did not recur. Depreciation and amortization Investments and Other segment depreciation and amortization was $17.5 million and $19.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization decreased $2.1 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to impairments related to non-operating real estate assets of $7.4 million recorded in 2013 as compared to $9.0 million recorded in 2012. The remaining decline in depreciation was due to the sale of certain properties during 2012. Income from operations Investments and Other segment had income from operations of $9.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 and a loss from operations of $8.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 . Income from operations increased $18.1 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 , primarily from reduced leased facility abandonment costs, lower net real estate impairment charges, and the charitable contributions expense in 2012 that did not recur, partially offset by lower operating revenues as a result of the sale of certain leased properties. 42 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Companys Assessment of Short-term and Long-term Liquidity We believe that our existing cash balances and other current assets, together with cash provided by operating activities and, as necessary, our revolving credit facilities, are sufficient to meet our operating and debt service requirements and other current liabilities for at least the next 12 months. Further, we believe that our short-term liquidity may be increased by monetizing available-for-sale securities owned by our domestic subsidiaries (which were $475.5 million at December 31, 2014 ) and other assets, and that our longer term liquidity and capital requirements will also be met through cash provided by operating activities, bank credit facilities and available-for-sale securities and other investments. At December 31, 2014 , total cash and cash equivalents were $151.7 million , of which $33.5 million was held outside of the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less foreign tax credits. We have accrued for U.S. federal and state tax liabilities on the earnings of our international subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. The repatriation of these earnings could result in additional U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. At December 31, 2014 , we had approximately $897.0 million of availability under our domestic revolving credit facilities. The only credit facilities with outstanding amounts as of December 31, 2014 that are scheduled to mature in 2015 are the Series A Senior Notes in the amount of $40.0 million which will mature on August 9, 2015 and the accounts receivable securitization program, which has $120.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2014 and matures on May 14, 2015. We intend to utilize funds from operations, investing activities and the existing syndicated line of credit, as necessary, to repay the Series A Senior Notes at maturity. We currently plan to renew the $150.0 million accounts receivable securities program in May 2015. Sources and Uses of Cash We had $151.7 million , $62.5 million and $88.3 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Our primary source of liquidity has historically been cash provided by operations. In addition, we have used returns on the sale of investments to fund other investing and financing activities. Principal uses of cash are operations, reinvestment in our proprietary technologies, capital expenditures, investment purchases, business acquisitions, payments on debt, stock repurchases and dividend payments. Information on our consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 is presented in the Statement of Cash Flows, categorized by operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities were $312.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 . Operating cash flows during 2014 included net income of $593.3 million and $282.5 million of non-cash net gains, and $1.8 million cash dividends from unconsolidated affiliates resulting in net cash flows of $312.6 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $0.1 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Significant changes in operating assets and liabilities include an $18.0 million use of cash to fund an increase in accounts receivable, a $16.0 million source of cash resulting from an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and a $23.2 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $395.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Operating cash flows during 2013 resulted principally from net income of $352.6 million , adjustments for non-cash net gains of $74.3 million , and $129.4 million in dividends from unconsolidated affiliates (including a $125.0 million dividend received from BFDS) resulting in net cash flows of $407.7 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $12.5 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The significant changes in operating assets and liabilities during 2013 included a decrease in accounts receivable of $15.8 million , a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $20.7 million, and a decrease in income taxes payable of $12.8 million primarily due to timing of payments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $216.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 . Operating cash flows during 2012 included $324.0 million of net income and $84.8 million of noncash net gains and $4.5 million cash dividends from unconsolidated affiliates resulting in net cash flows of $243.7 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $27.7 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The significant operating assets and liabilities changes during 2012 included an increase in accounts receivable of $34.1 million due to timing of receipts, an increase in other assets of $24.3 million due to a prepayment for software services that will be used over multiple years, and a decrease in deferred revenues and gains of $33.7 million mostly attributable to the utilization of a $40.0 million prepayment from BFDS. Additionally, income taxes payable increased $56.0 million during 2012 primarily attributable to the timing of tax payments on investment sales. 43 Table of Contents We have had significant proceeds from the sale of investments during 2014, 2013 and 2012 which have been included within investing activities on the Statement of Cash Flows. The income taxes paid on the gains from these investment sales are required to be treated as an operating cash outflow. Income tax expense resulting from these investment sales will reduce operating cash flows in the period that taxes are paid. Income taxes paid related to gains on the sale of investments and other non-operating assets during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $70.4 million, $73.5 million and $78.9 million, respectively. Software Development and Maintenance Our software development and maintenance efforts are focused on introducing new products and services as well as enhancing existing products and services. The following table summarizes software development, maintenance and enhancements to our proprietary systems and software products which are included in net income within cash flows from operations (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Non-capitalizable software development and maintenance costs $ 121.6 $ 123.7 $ 128.7 Amortization of capitalized software development costs 26.2 31.4 28.7 Investing Activities Cash flows provided by investing activities were $304.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The cash flows from investing activities during 2014 were primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $343.0 million , which includes $190.3 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in 2014 cash flows from investing activities increased due to proceeds received from sale of Global Solutions of $77.4 million and proceeds from sale of non-operating real estate of $32.6 million . These cash inflows were partially offset by capital expenditures of $113.4 million . Cash flows provided by investing activities during 2013 of $310.1 million were primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $332.9 million , which includes $148.8 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in 2013 cash flows from investing activities increased $71.5 million due to lower restricted cash held for pharmacy processing client fund obligations. These cash inflows were partially offset by capital expenditures of $102.8 million . Cash flows provided by investing activities were $177.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $381.3 million , which includes $138.7 million of pretax proceeds from a privately-held investment and from the sale of Computershare, Euronet Worldwide and State Street stock. Offsetting these cash inflows were cash outflows of $126.9 million from higher restricted cash held for client fund obligations and capital expenditures of $98.0 million . Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes capital expenditures by segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Financial Services segment $ 70.2 $ 65.1 $ 49.9 Healthcare Services segment 10.1 10.8 9.9 Customer Communications segment 30.8 22.1 34.0 Investments and Other segment 2.3 4.8 4.2 $ 113.4 $ 102.8 $ 98.0 During 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we capitalized software development costs of $28.8 million , $28.4 million , and $30.9 million , respectively. Additionally, we used debt to acquire approximately $2.5 million and $8.9 million of equipment during 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Capital expenditures using debt are treated as non-cash transactions and are not included in the annual capital expenditure amounts above. We anticipate our 2015 capital expenditures to total approximately $120.0 million. The approximately $7.0 million anticipated increase in 2015 capital expenditures is primarily attributable to planned updates of the generator plant at our data center. Future capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily by cash flows from operating activities or through borrowings on our revolving credit facilities. 44 Table of Contents Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities totaled $528.0 million , $731.1 million and $346.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases We received cash proceeds of $13.0 million , $30.6 million and $61.9 million from the issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options during the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The value of shares received in exchange for satisfaction of the exercise price and for tax-withholding obligations arising from the exercise of options to purchase our stock or from the vesting of restricted shares are included in Common stock repurchased in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. On January 29, 2014, the Board of Directors of DST authorized a $250.0 million share repurchase plan. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of our common stock for $200.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2014, resulting in approximately $50.0 million remaining under our existing share repurchase plan. During January 2015, we spent $50.0 million to purchase 0.5 million shares which completed the existing share repurchase plan. Under previous share repurchase plans, we expended $252.6 million for approximately 3.4 million shares and $73.7 million for approximately 1.3 million shares during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. On January 28, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a new $250.0 million share repurchase plan, which allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. As of March 23, 2014, Argyros beneficially owned 9.2 million shares or approximately 22% of DST common shares. During March 2014, we entered into an agreement under which we agreed to a two-step process to assist Argyros with the disposition of a substantial portion of its common stock ownership in DST. To implement Argyros disposition, we facilitated the May 2014 registered, secondary common stock offering of $450.0 million (before any overallotment option) of DST common stock beneficially owned by Argyros. Concurrent with the closing of the secondary offering and based upon a price determined in the secondary offering, DST repurchased, and simultaneously retired, 2.4 million shares of our common stock from Argyros for $200.0 million. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. Dividends We paid cash dividends of $1.20 , $1.20 , and $0.80 per common share in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The total cash paid for dividends in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was $47.6 million , $51.8 million , and $36.0 million , respectively. On January 28, 2015, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share on our common stock payable on March 13, 2015 to shareholders of record as of February 27, 2015. Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Client Funds Obligations Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Client funds obligations represent liabilities that will be repaid within one year of the balance sheet date. We had $399.6 million , $366.5 million and $442.7 million of client funds obligations at December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Debt Activity During 2014, we had the following primary sources of debt financing: our syndicated revolving credit facility; subsidiary line of credit facilities; term loan credit facilities; accounts receivable securitization program; privately placed senior notes (the Senior Notes); and secured borrowings. We have also utilized bridge loans as necessary to augment the above sources of debt financing. We had $552.9 million , $683.0 million and $1,011.6 million of debt outstanding at December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, a decrease of $130.1 million during 2014 and a decrease of $328.6 million during 2013 . The decrease in debt outstanding during 2014 was primarily from the repayment of the $125.0 million term loan credit facility in June 2014. Additionally in 2014, we renewed our accounts receivable securitization program resulting in a new maturity date of May 14, 2015 and on October 1, 2014, we replaced our existing revolving credit facility which had a scheduled maturity date of July 1, 2015. The new $850.0 million revolving credit facility has a maturity date of October 1, 2019. 45 Table of Contents The decrease in debt outstanding during 2013 was primarily from the repayment of the real estate credit agreement upon maturity in September 2013 ($101.7 million), the repayment of the promissory note with BFDS ($107.0 million) and the redemption for cash of all remaining Convertible debentures ($90.1 million). Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary indebtedness, asset dispositions and require certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios to be maintained. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. Our debt arrangements are described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments (in millions): Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 552.9 $ 167.3 $ 112.4 $ 113.2 $ 160.0 Operating lease obligations 117.7 24.6 39.0 27.6 26.5 Software license agreements 88.4 32.3 53.5 2.6 Other 36.7 18.9 13.2 4.2 0.4 $ 795.7 $ 243.1 $ 218.1 $ 147.6 $ 186.9 Interest obligations on our outstanding debt are not included in the table above. The revolving credit facility contains grid schedules that adjust borrowing costs up or down based upon our consolidated leverage ratio. The grid schedules may result in fluctuations in borrowing costs ranging from 1.00% to 1.70% over Eurodollar and 0.00% to 0.70% over base rate , as defined. The Senior Notes have fixed interest rates and are comprised of $40.0 million of 4.19% Series A Senior Notes, $105.0 million of 4.86% Series B Senior Notes, $65.0 million of 5.06% Series C Senior Notes and $160.0 million of 5.42% Series D Senior Notes. In addition to the financial instruments listed above, the program fees incurred on proceeds from the sale of receivables under our accounts receivable securitization program are determined based on variable interest rates associated with LIBOR. We have liabilities for income tax uncertainties of $80.1 million at December 31, 2014 . These obligations are classified as non-current on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as resolution of these matters is expected to take more than a year; however, the ultimate timing of resolution is uncertain. Other Commercial Commitments In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions of services and products and other business assets, we have agreed to indemnify certain parties with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made by third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. Except for a $2.1 million liability established in connection with the indemnification of certain matters associated with the sale of a business and an $0.8 million liability recorded associated with a performance guarantee on a franchise agreement, which were accrued at December 31, 2014, no liabilities have been established for guarantees or indemnifications as it is not possible to determine either the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements or the timing of any such payments due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity, or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. We believe that our guarantee arrangements will not have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, capital expenditures, capital resources, liquidity or results of operations. These arrangements are described above and in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 46 Table of Contents