Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) under Item 7 herein. In addition, the information set forth in the first paragraph and under the headings Introduction and Seasonality in the MD&A and the segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Note 16 are incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. 7 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge on or through our Internet website ( www.dstsystems.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, and Compensation Committee of the DST Board of Directors are available at investors.dstsystems.com. These guidelines and charters are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. Written requests may be made to the DST Corporate Secretary, 333 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, and oral requests may be made by calling the DST Corporate Secretarys Office at (816) 435-8655. An individual may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or share price in the future. Risks Related to Our Business Trends or events affecting our clients or their industries could decrease the demand for our products and services and the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers could materially harm our business and results of operations. We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients in the mutual fund, brokerage, investment management, healthcare, telecommunications, other financial service (i.e. insurance, banking and financial planning) and other industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products decreases or any of the industries we serve decline or fail or consolidate, reducing the number of potential clients, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. On a consolidated basis, for the year ended December 31, 2015 , our five largest customers (excluding BFDS and IFDS, our 50%-owned joint ventures with State Street) accounted for approximately 18% of our consolidated operating revenues. For the same period, the Healthcare Services segments five largest customers accounted for approximately 48.7% of our revenue in that segment, including 18.4% from its largest customer. Because of our significant customer concentration, particularly in the Healthcare Services segment, our revenue could fluctuate significantly due to changes in economic conditions, the use of competitive products, or the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our significant customers, and a delay or default in payment by any significant customer could materially harm our business and results of operations. Events that adversely affect our clients businesses, rates of growth or numbers of customers they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients businesses include decreased demand for our customers products and services, adverse conditions in our customers markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential customers will accept our products or services. We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific customers and not realize additional revenue from such investments. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. 8 Table of Contents We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems could result in significant costs and reputational damage. We have developed and maintained, and our businesses depend on, information technology infrastructure, including elements both internal and external, to record and process a large volume of complex transactions and other data, including personally identifiable information regarding financial and health matters. In certain circumstances, vendors have access to such data in order to assist us with responsibilities, such as producing benefit plan identification cards, maintaining software we license on our own behalf or resell to others, or helping clients comply with anti-money laundering regulations. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. In recent years, several financial services firms were victims of computer systems hacking attacks, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data, and reputational harm. Rapid advances in technology, and the limits and costs of technology, skills and manpower, may prevent us from anticipating, identifying, preventing or addressing all potential security threats and breaches. Any interruptions, delays, breakdowns or breach, including as a result of cybersecurity breaches, of our, or of our vendors, information technology infrastructure, including improper employee actions, could result in the loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the markets perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues, regulatory penalties, and litigation. We may be unable to attract and retain capable technical personnel for our processing businesses or quality executives to manage the complex structure of our business. Our success depends on recruiting and retaining adept management and personnel with expertise in software and systems development and the types of computer hardware and software we utilize. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Companies in our industry compete fiercely for qualified management and technical personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately compete for or keep qualified personnel. If we lack qualified management, there is an increased risk that we will adopt unfavorable business strategies, especially in a complex business like ours with multiple segments and operating entities. If we lack qualified technical personnel, our ability to develop the systems and services our clients demand may also be negatively affected. The demand for our products and services could decrease if we do not continually address our clients technology and capacity requirements. Our clients use technology-based products and services in the complex and rapidly changing markets in which they operate. We must substantially invest in technology and systems to meet customer requirements for technology and capacity. If we do not meet clients technology and capacity requirements in advance of our competitors or if the investments we make are not cost-effective or do not result in successful products or services, our business could be adversely affected. If we cannot successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our growth may be limited and our financial condition adversely affected. Our business strategy anticipates that we will supplement internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable businesses to acquire. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other complementary businesses. Information we obtain about an acquisition target may be limited and there can be no assurance that an acquisition will perform as expected or positively impact our financial performance. Potential acquisitions involve risk, including the risk we would be unable to effectively integrate the acquired technologies, operations and personnel into our business, and the risk that managements attention and our capital would be diverted from other areas of our business. The anticipated benefits of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the issuance of capital stock, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, our financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We are investing heavily in our technology to improve existing products and services and add new products and services to address the needs of existing or new clients. Our investments may not lead to successful deployment or increases in the number of accounts or transactions. If we are not successful in creating value from our investments by increasing sales or reducing expenses, our financial condition and prospects could be harmed. 9 Table of Contents An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues. We service mutual fund and other accounts under shareowner recordkeeping arrangements which we refer to as registered accounts. These arrangements are distinguished from broker subaccounts, which are serviced under contract with a broker/dealer. Our clients may adopt the broker subaccount structure. We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform shareowner subaccounting. As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis. Brokerage firms that obtain agreements from our clients to use a broker subaccount structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which generally results in lower revenues. While subaccounting conversions have generally been limited to our non tax-advantaged mutual fund accounts, such conversions have begun to extend to the tax-advantaged accounts (such as retirement and Section 529 accounts) we service, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Consolidation in or among our customers and potential customers could result in a reduction of customers or reduction in use of our services. Mergers or acquisitions of or consolidations among our customers or between our customers and other entities could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers and result in the discontinuation or reduction in use of our services. This could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the activities of the consolidated entities. The adverse effects of consolidation could be greater in the financial services or healthcare services sectors. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our businesses are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to intense competition from other established service providers in all industries we serve. Some of our competitors are able to bundle service offerings and offer more appealing pricing structures. Some of our clients, or the clients they serve, may develop, have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the transaction processing, recordkeeping and output services they have paid us to perform. Additionally, some of our competitors and clients have greater financial and human resources and access to capital than we do. In the financial and healthcare markets we serve, we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and other intermediary relationships, quality of service, and level of fees charged for services. We continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products and services offered. Our failure to successfully compete in any of our material operating businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition could also affect the revenue mix of services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins. The quality or availability of postal system services could decrease, reducing the volume of printed customer communications and negatively impacting our business. We are dependent on postal delivery systems for final delivery of printed customer communications. Postal delivery systems are facing economic pressures from the reduction in First-Class mail and certain postal delivery systems have experienced work stoppages and other interruptions. Accuracy and speed of delivery are important factors for clients using printed communications in their businesses. Changes in the timeliness and quality of postal delivery could negatively impact the level of printed communications delivered by our customers to their clients. A decrease in such communications could adversely affect our business and our operating results. Decreasing demand for traditional printed and mailed communications may continue to adversely affect our business, depending on the extent to which our customers and their clients acceptance of electronic alternatives continues to grow. To the extent our clients customers select electronic presentment and delivery of communications, the demand for our services for production and distribution of printed documents has decreased and could continue to decrease. We provide electronic presentment and delivery solutions, but they are priced differently and require different capabilities than print-mail solutions. Clients may choose to perform electronic hosting and distribution of communications to customers internally or select electronic solution providers other than us. In particular, clients have terminated their services or moved production in-house. This has and could continue to adversely affect our business and our operating results. 10 Table of Contents Damage to our facilities could impact our operations or financial condition. The performance of our services also depends upon facilities that house central computer operations or operating centers or in which we process information, images, bills or statements. Significant damage to any of our operating facilities could interrupt the operations at those facilities and interfere with our ability to serve customers. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to currency fluctuations and foreign political, economic and other conditions that could adversely affect our revenues from or support by foreign operations. Inherent risks in our international business activities could decrease our international sales and also could adversely affect our ability to receive important support from our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. These risks include potentially unfavorable foreign economic conditions, political conditions or national priorities, foreign government regulation, potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, the failure to bridge cultural differences, and limited or prohibited access to our foreign operations and the support they provide. We may also have difficulty repatriating any profits or be adversely affected by currency fluctuations in our international business. Various events may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year. The nature of these events might inhibit our ability to anticipate and act in advance to counter them. We may be unsuccessful in determining or controlling when and whether events occur that could cause varying financial results. Unfavorable results may occur that we did not anticipate or take advance action to address. We incur significant costs to develop products used to service our existing and potential client operations. The timing of these expenses may fluctuate as new client contracts are signed or existing client contracts are renewed, causing our results to vary accordingly. Factors contributing to the variability of our results include increased costs of supplies, increased costs relating to existing and potential client operations, and hiring staff to develop new and existing products. The timing of our fees associated with new and existing client contracts, including changes in recognition as a result of changes in accounting principles, may also cause results to vary from period to period. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. We generate significant revenues from the transaction processing fees we earn from our services. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets. The number of unique securities positions held by investors through our clients and our clients customer trading volumes reflect the levels of participation and activity in the markets, which are impacted by market prices and the liquidity of the securities markets, among other factors. Over the past several years, the U.S. and foreign securities markets have experienced significant volatility. We could continue to be negatively impacted by the volatile markets as certain of our fees are tied to the asset bases of our clients. The continuation or occurrence of significant market volatility or decreased levels of participation would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our business operations. We also derive significant revenues from asset management and administration contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management (AUM), assets under administration (AUA) and number of transactions processed. AUM and AUA may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary. Factors that could decrease AUM and AUA (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed and administered as well as redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds and accounts managed and administered. Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any such loss would have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Operational errors in the performance of our services or contractual obligations could lead to liability for claims, client loss and result in reputational damage. The failure to properly perform our services or contractual obligations could result in our clients and/or certain of our subsidiaries being subjected to losses including censures, fines, or other sanctions by applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. In addition, such errors could cause us to lose revenues, lose clients or damage our reputation. Our revenues could decrease if client contracts are terminated or fail to renew or if clients renegotiate contracts or utilize our services at lower than anticipated levels. We derive most of our revenue by selling products and services under long-term contracts, many of which contain terms and conditions based on anticipated levels of utilization of our services. We cannot unilaterally extend the terms of our client contracts when they expire. Contracts can terminate during the term of agreement for various reasons, including through termination for convenience clauses in some contracts that enable clients to cancel by written notice. Our revenues could decrease as a result of terminations or non-renewals of client contracts; extensions of client contracts under, or contract re-negotiations resulting in, less favorable terms; or utilization of services at less than anticipated levels. We are substantially dependent on our intellectual property rights, and a claim for infringement or a requirement to indemnify a client for infringement could adversely affect us. We have made substantial investments in software and other intellectual property on which our business is highly dependent. Businesses we acquire also often involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges we face in protecting our strategic advantage. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. Our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad may not be adequate and others, including our competitors, may use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent available, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws; however, significant portions of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by patents. We also utilize nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and security measures to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee these measures will be effective. Our products and services rely on technology developed by others, including open source software, and we have no control over possible infringement of someone elses intellectual property rights by the provider of this technology. The owner of the rights could seek damages from us rather than or in addition to the persons who provide the technology to us. We could be subject at any time to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to evaluate and defend. Our clients may also face infringement claims, allege that such claims relate to our products and services, and seek indemnification from us. Any loss of our intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights of others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Our investments in funds and in other companies could decline in value. We hold significant investments in available-for-sale equity securities of other companies, primarily State Street Corporation, and other financial interests that are subject to fluctuations in market prices. A significant decline in the value of our equity investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them or than the value of the consideration used to acquire them. From time to time we add new investment strategies to our investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as seed capital. The seed capital investments may decline in value. A significant decline in their value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them. We also participate in joint ventures with other companies. These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions. 12 Table of Contents We have restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. If we do not comply with these restrictive covenants, our failure could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary investments, and asset dispositions, and require us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in reduced liquidity for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under one of our debt agreements could result in a cross default under one or more of our other debt agreements, including our financing agreements. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position and results of operation. Regulatory and Litigation Risks We and our unconsolidated affiliates are subject to regulation. Any regulatory violations, changes or uncertainties could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to U.S. or foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, reporting and related regulations. Such regulations cover all aspects of our businesses including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker/dealers, use and safekeeping of customers funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, net capital, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Any violation of applicable regulations could expose us or those businesses to civil or criminal liability, significant fines or sanctions, damage our reputation, the revocation of licenses, censures, or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, which could adversely affect our business or our financial results. Governmental changes, changing interpretation of regulations, and uncertainties surrounding services we provide could increase our costs of business, result in penalties, or diminish business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The SEC, Department of Labor (DOL), or other regulatory agencies may issue regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds, which could adversely affect our business. The SEC, DOL, or other regulatory agencies may issue regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds and other fund-types products (collectively referred to as mutual funds), which could adversely affect our business. The SEC may issue additional regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) or other legislative authority that would require brokers and financial intermediaries that distribute mutual funds to make more detailed fee disclosures at the point-of-sale. Additionally, brokers and financial intermediaries may become subject to new SEC and/or DOL-imposed fiduciary standards-of-care that could cause them to alter their methods of distribution and/or wholesaling activities. We cannot predict the requirements the SEC or DOL may propose and finally adopt. Regulations that would cause current distribution channels or interest in mutual fund investing to change could decrease the number of accounts on our systems as a result of changes in client offerings or the attractiveness of offerings to customers of our clients. This could adversely affect our business and operating results. Additionally, to the extent the Dodd-Frank Act and/or DOL regulations impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. Our clients are subject to regulation that could affect our business. Our clients are subject to extensive regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to services we provide to the financial services industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry. Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. For example, our accounts in our Healthcare Services segment are impacted by the ACA, including the Health Insurance Marketplace. The implementation of the ACA is still in its early stages, and we cannot predict the impact it will have on our customers and their demand for our services. 13 Table of Contents Our businesses expose us to risks of claims and losses that could be significant and damage our reputation and business prospects. Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a clients instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based, among other theories, upon various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our services, or cause us to make costly operating changes. Risks Related to Corporate Governance or our Equity Securities We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership. We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results. Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which could, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. We own interests in unconsolidated entities including Boston Financial Data Services, International Financial Data Services Limited Partnership, International Financial Data Services Limited, and various real estate joint ventures. Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which could restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so. These arrangements could also allow us to purchase the other owners interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so. The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time. Various plans, agreements, laws and organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain plans and agreements, and applicable laws could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover that is not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions include: super-majority stockholder approval required for certain actions; specific procedures for stockholders to nominate new directors; the Boards authority to issue and set the terms of preferred stock; various rights of joint venture co-owners, lenders and certain customers and executives in the event of a change in control; public reporting of ownership and of changes in ownership by stockholders with at least a 5% interest in us; and legal restrictions on business combinations with certain stockholders. Because of contractual commitments, a change in control could affect our operating results and weaken our management retention and incentive tools. A change in control of the Company could trigger various rights and obligations in service agreements with certain customers and in agreements governing our joint ventures. A change in control could also allow some clients to terminate their agreements with us or to obtain rights to use our processing software. We are parties to joint venture agreements that allow other co-owners to buy our equity interests if we undergo a change in control. Under certain executive equity-based and other incentive compensation awards, benefit programs and employment agreements with our management, a change in control by 14 Table of Contents itself, or an individuals termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason (each as defined in applicable agreements) after a change in control could accelerate funding, payment or vesting of equity grants, as applicable, under such agreements and programs. This accelerated funding, vesting or payment may decrease an employees incentive to continue employment with us. We have adopted an executive severance plan which, among other things, provides benefits to participating senior officers and executives who are terminated in connection with a change of control. Certain other executive officers have agreements with us that require us to continue to employ them for three years after a change in control or to pay certain amounts if we terminate their employment without cause or they resign for good reason following a change in control. The executives might not be incented to achieve desired results for the new owners of our business, and the cost of keeping the executives on the payroll might deter potential new owners from acquiring us or hinder new owners from hiring replacement management. We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Future cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our main operating facilities, including our corporate headquarters, are located in Kansas City, Missouri and consist of 1.2 million square feet of office space, of which 57% is owned and 43% is leased, 162,000 square feet of owned data center space, and 318,000 square feet of leased production space for our Customer Communications business. Additionally, we own an additional aggregate 358,000 square feet of space consisting primarily of a back-up data center in St. Louis, Missouri and an office building and production facility in the United Kingdom. We also lease an aggregate of 2.5 million square feet of other office space and production space in North America, the United Kingdom, India, Thailand, Australia and Canada. Of the 4.5 million square feet of space identified above, the Company leases and subleases approximately 355,000 square feet to third-parties. In addition, we own undeveloped land in Kansas City, Missouri and California and an underground facility with approximately 538,000 square feet in Kansas City, Missouri, of which 497,000 square feet is leased to third parties. Our real estate joint ventures own 2.8 million square feet of real estate, of which 2.2 million square feet is occupied by third parties or is vacant. We believe our facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained. The following table summarizes the square footage of U.S. real estate facilities wholly-owned by DST or owned through unconsolidated affiliates of DST as of December 31, 2015 (in millions): DST wholly-owned (1) Joint venture-owned (1) Occupied by DST and unconsolidated affiliates 0.6 0.6 Occupied by third parties and vacant 0.7 2.2 Total 1.3 2.8 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Amounts exclude square footage of wholly-owned data centers and related property and a joint venture-owned 1,000 room convention hotel. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our businesses. While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 15 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following list presents certain information with respect to each of our executive officers as of February 19, 2016 . Manoochehr Mike Abbaei , age 55, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and Head of Customer Communications leading our Customer Communications business in North America. He joined the Company in April 2011 as President of DST Brokerage Solutions, LLC, a Financial Services segment business serving brokerdealers. He had been, since July 2009, managing partner at Finix Business Strategies and CEO of Finix Converge LLC, each of which we acquired in April 2011. Jonathan J. Boehm , age 55, is our Executive Vice President and Head of our Healthcare businesses. He rejoined the Company in 1997 after prior service in the early 1980s. Prior to becoming an Executive Vice President managing our healthcare businesses in 2009, he served as Group Vice President - Mutual Funds Full Service. He is responsible for our Healthcare Services segment, including DST HealthCare Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries DST Health Solutions and Argus Health Systems. Edmund J. Burke , age 55, is our Executive Vice President and President of ALPS. ALPS includes the Corporations investment management and asset servicing businesses. ALPS Holdings, Inc. became a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company during 2011. Mr. Burke joined ALPS in 1991 and has served as President since 2000. As part of his responsibilities for the ALPS group of companies, Mr. Burke is President and Trustee of Clough Global Long/Short Fund, Clough Global Allocation Fund, Clough Global Equity Fund and Clough Global Opportunities Fund; Trustee of Liberty AllStar Equity Fund; Director of Liberty AllStar Growth Fund, Inc., and Chairman of the Board and President of Financial Investors Trust. Each of these funds operates as a registered investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940. Gregg Wm. Givens , age 55, is our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. He assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer in January of 2014. He joined the Company in 1996 as an officer and served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from 1999 through 2013. Stephen C. Hooley , age 52, is our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. He became Chief Executive Officer on September 12, 2012. He joined the Company in mid2009 as President and Chief Operating Officer. He served from 2004 through mid2009 as President and Chief Executive Officer of BFDS. He served from 2009 through April 2013 as nonexecutive Chairman of BFDS. From 2007 through March 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of IFDS L.P. Simon N. HudsonLund, age 54, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and CEO of DSTi Holdings Limited. He joined the Company in February 2013 as Chief Executive Officer of DSTi Holdings Limited, which owns DST Bluedoor Holdings Pty Ltd, DST Process Solutions Limited and DST Output Limited, and as the Global Executive Chairman of IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P. He has served in numerous positions with IFDS U.K., including as Chief Executive Officer (February 2008 through January 2013), Head of European Transfer Agent Operations (January 2011 through January 2013), Chief Operating Officer (July 2005 through January 2008), and Managing Director Administration ServicesClient Finance and Transfer Agent Operations (June 2003 through June 2005). In March 2013, he became Chief Executive Officer of IFDS L.P. Vercie L. Lark , age 53, is Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He joined the Company as Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2010 and assumed his current title in March 2014. He is responsible for our global information technology infrastructure and architecture functions, global information privacy and security, and global information technology sourcing. Mr. Lark previously served since July 2009 as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of CenturyLink, Inc., a provider of voice, broadband and video services. He had served since 2008 as the Chief Information Officer of Embarq Corporation, which was acquired in 2009 by CenturyLink. Beth Sweetman , age 52, is Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. She joined the Company in June 2013 as a vice president and assumed her current title in March 2014. Prior to joining the Company, she had served since 2007 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for Furniture Brands International, a home furnishings designer and manufacturer that, following her departure from that company, filed for bankruptcy in September 2013. Steven J. Towle , age 58, became in March 2014 our Executive Vice President and Head of Financial Services. He had served since 2004 as President and Chief Executive Officer of our U.S. Customer Communications business. Prior to joining the Company, he was BFDSs President and Chief Operating Officer during 2000 through 2003 and its Senior Vice President during 1997 through September 2000. Mr. Towle announced his intent to retire from his current position effective March 31, 2016. Randall D. Young , age 59, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in mid2013. Since 2002, he had served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He joined the Company as a Vice President in 1995. 16 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys common stock trades under the symbol DST on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As of February 19, 2016 , there were approximately 42,000 beneficial owners of our common stock. The following table provides the quarterly prices of, and quarterly cash dividends paid on, the Companys common stock for the two-year period ended December 31, 2015. Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by DSTs Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. On January 27, 2016 , the DST Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.33 per share on DSTs common stock. The dividend will be payable on March 15, 2016 , to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2016 . Dividend High Low 2015 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 109.81 $ 91.95 2nd Quarter 0.30 125.70 109.68 3rd Quarter 0.30 133.42 95.03 4th Quarter 0.30 124.52 105.08 2014 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 98.21 $ 85.82 2nd Quarter 0.30 95.71 84.77 3rd Quarter 0.30 92.90 83.67 4th Quarter 0.30 99.67 82.26 The prices set forth above do not include commissions and do not necessarily represent actual transactions. The closing price of our common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 2015 was $114.06 . Stock Repurchases The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of our common stock purchased by us during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total $ Amount of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Amount That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 - October 31 335,243 (1) $ 110.03 $ 36,823,891 $ 188,176,283 November 1 - November 30 262,260 (1) 122.43 32,104,985 156,071,298 December 1 - December 31 49,515 (1) 123.61 6,071,103 150,000,195 Total 647,018 $ 116.27 $ 74,999,979 $ 150,000,195 (2) _______________________________________________________________________ (1) For the three months ended December 31, 2015 , we purchased, in accordance with the 2015 Equity and Incentive Plan (formerly the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan), 974 shares of our common stock for participant income tax withholding in conjunction with stock option exercises or from the vesting of restricted stock shares, as requested by the participants or from shares surrendered in satisfaction of option exercise price. These purchases were not made under the publicly-announced repurchase plans or programs, but were allowed by the rules of the Compensation Committee of the DST Board of Directors. Of these shares, 534 shares were purchased in October 2015 , 18 shares were purchased in November 2015 , and 422 shares were purchased in December 2015 . (2) On July 29, 2015 we announced that our Board of Directors authorized an additional $250.0 million shares repurchases which is incremental to the existing plan authorizing $250.0 million, which was announced on January 28, 2015. The plan allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. The plan does not have an expiration date. We have entered and may enter into one or more plans with our brokers or banks for pre-authorized purchases within defined limits pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 to affect all or a portion of such share repurchases. 17 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following graph shows the changes in value since December 31, 2010 of an assumed investment of $100 in: (i) DST Common Stock; (ii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap index (1) ; (iii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap Index - Information Technology Sector (S&P MidCap IT Index) (2) ; and (iv) the stock that comprise a peer group of companies that we used in prior years (Former Peer Group) (3) . The table following the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of December 31, 2015 and as of December 31 for each of the five preceding years. The value for the assumed investments depicted on the graph and in the table has been calculated assuming that cash dividends, if any, are reinvested at the end of each quarter in which they are paid. Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return As of December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 DST Systems, Inc $ 100.00 $ 104.04 $ 140.51 $ 213.86 $ 224.74 $ 275.20 S&P MidCap 400 Index 100.00 98.27 115.83 154.64 169.74 166.05 S&P MidCap IT Index 100.00 88.46 101.91 131.26 141.65 142.52 Former Peer Group 100.00 109.73 129.74 196.12 219.90 248.61 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Standard & Poors Corporation, an independent company, prepares the S&P 400 MidCap Index. (2) In 2015, we changed our peer group index to a published industry index rather than a selected peer group to maintain alignment with the Companys continued expansion of technology-based processing and servicing solutions offered to our clients. (3) For comparative purposes to prior year, the companies included in the Former Peer Group are: Alliance Data Systems Corp, Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., Convergys Corp, CSG Systems International, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., NCR Corp, Paychex, Inc., SEI Investments Co., TeleTech Holdings, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. DST selected the Former Peer Group based on comparable company information for DSTs industry developed by an independent compensation consultant with the input of the CFO. 18 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and our audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon and the other financial information included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2015 (1) 2014 (2) 2013 (3) 2012 (4) 2011 (5) Income Statement Data: (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pockets) $ 2,013.0 $ 2,042.0 $ 1,960.6 $ 1,892.4 $ 1,744.0 Income from operations 305.6 308.9 313.2 157.3 260.1 Other income, net 204.5 373.5 243.2 373.5 38.7 Income before income taxes and non-controlling interest 531.8 791.7 544.9 519.5 274.0 Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. 358.2 593.3 352.6 324.0 183.1 Basic earnings per share (6) 9.95 14.82 8.15 7.22 4.01 Diluted earnings per share (6) 9.83 14.66 8.00 7.08 3.95 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (6) (7) 5.94 5.55 4.57 3.98 4.09 Cash dividends per share of common stock 1.20 1.20 1.20 0.80 0.70 December 31, 2015 (1) 2014 (2) 2013 (3) 2012 (4) 2011 (5) Balance Sheet Data: (dollars in millions) Total assets $ 2,813.2 $ 2,942.9 $ 3,090.5 $ 3,392.5 $ 3,428.6 Total debt 562.1 552.9 683.0 1,011.6 1,380.3 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) In 2015, we acquired the following businesses: kasina LLC, Red Rocks Capital LLC and Wealth Management Systems Inc. Additionally, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $199.3 million, which is included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2) In 2014, we recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale of the wholly-owned subsidiary, DST Global Solutions, Ltd, which is included in Gain on sale of business in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $343.5 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (3) In 2013, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $222.8 million, which were included in Other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (4) In 2012, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $60.8 million associated with our U.K. Customer Communications business, which is included in Depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In addition, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $293.7 million and dividend income from a private company investment of $48.4 million, both of which are included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (5) In 2011, we acquired the following businesses: ALPS Holdings, Inc., Newkirk Products, Inc., Lateral Group Limited, Intellisource Healthcare Solutions, Finix Business Strategies, LLC, Finix Converge, LLC and Subserveo, Inc. Additionally, we recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $17.2 million, which is included in Other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (6) During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we repurchased 3.6 million, 4.7 million, 3.8 million, 1.8 million and 3.8 million shares of our common stock, respectively. (7) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the impact of certain items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or are non-operational items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. A description of the use of non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation of diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is below. 19 Table of Contents Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information In addition to reporting financial information on a GAAP basis, we have disclosed non-GAAP financial information which has been reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures in the following financial schedules titled Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share. In making these adjustments to determine the non-GAAP results, we take into account the impact of items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, that do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or that are non-operational in nature. Generally, these items include net gains on dispositions of business units, net gains (losses) associated with securities and other investments, restructuring and impairment costs, and other similar items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. Management uses non-GAAP measures in its budgeting and forecasting processes and to further analyze our financial trends and operational run-rate, as well as making financial comparisons to prior periods presented on a similar basis. We believe that providing such adjusted results allows investors and other users of our financial statements to better understand our comparative operating performance for the periods presented. DSTs management uses each of these non-GAAP financial measures in its own evaluation of our performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. Our non-GAAP measures may differ from similar measures by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although our management believes non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating the performance of our business, we acknowledge that items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on our financial information calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP results. These factors should be considered when evaluating our results. Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Reported GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 9.83 $ 14.66 $ 8.00 $ 7.08 $ 3.95 Adjusted to remove: Net gains on securities and other investments (3.42 ) (5.26 ) (3.14 ) (4.54 ) (0.23 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates items (0.06 ) (0.09 ) (0.10 ) (0.20 ) 0.06 Restructuring charges 0.06 0.26 0.03 0.51 0.08 Income tax items (0.43 ) (0.91 ) (0.24 ) (0.40 ) Business development/advisory expenses 0.02 0.09 0.02 0.06 Net (gains) losses on real estate assets (0.06 ) 0.04 0.09 Net gain on sale of business (2.64 ) Gain on contract to repurchase common stock (0.45 ) Loss accruals (loss accrual reversal) (0.12 ) 0.06 0.04 0.08 Charitable contribution of securities 0.01 (0.06 ) Contract termination payments received, net (0.08 ) (0.03 ) Goodwill impairment 1.33 Insurance Solutions asset impairment and other costs 0.11 Restructuring cost to amend sales/marketing agreements 0.10 Loss on repurchase of convertible debentures 0.02 Adjusted Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 5.94 $ 5.55 $ 4.57 $ 3.98 $ 4.09 20 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements - that is, statements related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, seek, see, will, would, or target. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the effects of competition in the businesses in which we operate; changes in customer demand and our ability to provide products and services on terms that are favorable to us; changes in law, economic and financial conditions; the impacts of breaches or potential breaches of network, information technology or data security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; our investments in joint ventures or other unconsolidated affiliates; for example, some of our joint venture investments are subject to contractual obligations which could restrict us from selling such interests; the effectiveness of our risk management framework; the impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation and litigation and potential SEC or DOL regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds; our investments in funds and other companies may decline; our ability to successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses; the other factors that are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. These or other uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. This document includes certain forward-looking projected financial information that is based on current estimates and forecasts. Actual results could differ materially. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact our financial statements or results of operations are difficult to predict. These forward-looking statements are based on information as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized. Introduction DST Systems, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, us, the Company or DST) use proprietary software applications to provide sophisticated information processing and servicing solutions through strategically unified business processing, data management, and customer communications solutions to clients globally within the asset management, brokerage, retirement, insurance, healthcare and other markets. Our wholly-owned data centers provide the secure technology infrastructure necessary to support our solutions offerings. We manage our business through three operating segments, Financial Services, Healthcare Services and Customer Communications. Our investments in equity securities, private equity investments, real estate and certain financial interests have been aggregated into an Investments and Other segment. Beginning in 2015, we modified our reportable segment presentation to reflect changes in how we now operate the business and make resource allocations. Certain operations, including the electronic presentment services for our financial services customers and our retirement plan participant communications and enrollment materials services, are now presented in the Financial Services segment rather than the Customer Communications segment. Additionally, real estate utilized principally by our business operations has been reclassified from our Investments and Other segment to the segment that utilizes the property. Real estate primarily occupied by third parties or unoccupied remains within Investments and Other segment under the revised presentation. Prior periods have been revised to reflect the new reportable segments. Financial Services Segment DSTs proprietary software applications enable us to offer our customers information processing solutions that enable them to capture, analyze and report their investors transactions. Examples of the services we provide include tracking of purchases, redemptions, exchanges and transfers of shares; maintaining investor identification and ownership records; reconciling cash 21 Table of Contents and share activity; processing dividends; reporting sales; performing tax and other compliance functions; and providing information for printing of investor trade confirmations, statements and year-end tax forms. Services are provided either under a remote processing (Remote) model or on a business process outsourcing (BPO) basis. Our BPO service offerings are enhanced by our proprietary workflow software, AWD, which is also licensed separately to third parties. In the U.S. we provide services to mutual funds, brokerage firms, retirement plans and alternative investment funds (such as real estate investment trusts) either directly or through BFDS, our domestic joint venture with State Street Corporation (State Street). In Australia and the U.K., we license software solutions to funds and fund managers, who perform participant accounting and recordkeeping for the wealth management and retirement savings market. We also provide investor services on a Remote and BPO basis internationally (U.K., Canada, Ireland and Luxembourg) solely through IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P., which are joint ventures with State Street. Financial Services fees are primarily charged to the client based on the number of accounts, participants or transactions processed. For subaccounts, a portion of the services we provide for registered accounts are provided directly by the broker/dealer. As a result, our revenue per account is generally higher for registered accounts than for subaccounts. On a more limited basis, we also generate revenue through asset-based fee arrangements and from investment earnings related to cash balances maintained in our full service transfer agency bank accounts. We typically have multi-year agreements with our clients. We receive revenues for processing services and products provided under various agreements with unconsolidated affiliates. We believe that the terms of our contracts with unconsolidated affiliates are fair to us and are no less favorable to us than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. Our operating revenues derived from sales to unconsolidated affiliates were $162.6 million , $166.6 million , and $170.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. On January 1, 2015, we acquired all of the membership interests of kasina LLC, a strategic advisory firm to the asset management industry for $9.0 million of upfront cash consideration and up to $5.0 million of performance-related contingent consideration. The acquisition provides us with additional opportunities to provide a combination of advisory, research, technology and analytics to asset managers. On July 31, 2015, we acquired all of the membership interests of asset manager Red Rocks Capital LLC, which focuses on listed private equity and other private asset investments, for $45.0 million of upfront cash consideration and up to $20.0 million of performance-related contingent considerations. We expect the acquisition to provide us with additional opportunities within the alternative investment marketplace to enhance our ongoing asset management strategy. On August 21, 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Wealth Management Systems Inc., a provider of technology-based rollover services, for $64.0 million of cash consideration. Wealth Management Systems Inc. automates the migration of assets from retirement plans to investment management platforms. We expect the acquisition to provide us with additional opportunities to expand rollover service options to new and existing customers and enhance our ongoing retirement and asset management strategies. On February 24, 2016, we acquired all of the membership interests of Kaufman Rossin Fund Services LLC (KRFS), for $95.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. KRFS is an independent, full-service provider of specialized hedge fund administration services to the global financial community. KRFS hedge fund services include accounting and valuation, back-office outsourcing, investor services, treasury services, and customized reporting. We expect the acquisition to provide us with additional opportunities within the alternative investment marketplace and expand our asset administration service offerings. In December 2015, we entered into a ten year contract with a new client to provide both subaccounting and mutual fund servicing solutions. Based on current volumes, the client is expected to convert approximately 10.0 million subaccounts onto our platform by the end of 2016 and approximately 2.3 million registered accounts onto our platform by the end of 2017. Implementation efforts will result in increased costs as we convert the client onto our platforms over the course of 2016 and 2017. During 2014, we sold our wholly-owned U.K. subsidiary, DST Global Solutions Limited and certain related affiliates (Global Solutions). Global Solutions provided post-trade, middle-, and back-office investment management software applications, implementation and other professional services. Healthcare Services Segment The Healthcare Services segment uses our proprietary software applications to provide healthcare organizations a variety of medical and pharmacy benefit solutions to satisfy their information processing, quality of care, cost management concerns and payment integrity programs, while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies. Our healthcare solutions include claims adjudication, benefit management, care management, business intelligence and other ancillary services. We also 22 Table of Contents continue to expand and enhance our Healthcare Services offerings to ensure we are able to address the changing needs of our clients within the complex and highly regulated health industries which we serve. For example, our pharmacy management business continues to make investments to expand our clinical, network, and analytic capabilities to help our customers and prospective customers achieve the best possible outcomes for their members and to allow us to more effectively compete in the broader competitive pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) market. Historically, we have acted as an agent within our pharmacy-solutions business and, accordingly, recognized revenue on a net basis. As our enhanced products evolve and we expand our pharmacy-solutions service offerings, we will evaluate the provisions within our new pharmacy network and customer contracts to determine whether we are acting as a principal or an agent in the transactions. If we determine that we are acting as a principal in the transactions, we will report the transactions on a gross basis, resulting in significantly higher revenues and costs reflected within our consolidated financial statements. We generally derive revenue from our pharmacy-solutions business on a transactional fee basis. Fees are earned on pharmacy claims processing and payments services, pharmacy and member call center services, pharmaceutical rebate administration, administration or management of clinical programs, pharmacy network management, member and plan web services and management information and reporting. Further, revenues include investment earnings related to client cash balances maintained in our bank accounts. Medical claim processing revenues are generally derived from fees charged based on a per member/per month basis and transactional basis. We also realize revenue from fixed-fee license agreements that include provisions for ongoing support and maintenance and for additional license payments in the event that usage or members increase. Additionally, we derive professional service revenues from fees for implementation services, custom programming and data center operations. During 2015, we renewed our contract with a significant Healthcare Services client which extends our contract to provide them pharmacy claims processing, reporting and other administration services through June 2020. Effective January 2015, a significant client deconverted approximately 40% of their business with us. Subsequently, during mid-2015, we entered into a new multi-year contract with this existing client to provide administrative management of pharmacy claims for the clients commercial plan members. As a result of this agreement, the previously announced deconversion of this clients remaining members which was scheduled for 2015 and 2016 will not take place, and the client will remain on our pharmacy claims processing platform. Customer Communications Segment Within our Customer Communications segment, we offer a full range of integrated print, mail, and electronic solutions to customers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. We produce customized communications for our clients customers such as investment fund statements, explanation of health benefit statements, and monthly utility bills. We use proprietary and third- party software applications to provide the formatting, printing, mailing, electronic presentment and archiving of these types of communications. As one of the largest First-Class mailers in the U.S., we also provide a range of postal services to help clients optimize mail efficiencies and control postage expenses. Revenues in this segment are derived from presentation and delivery (either print or digital), mailing fees and archiving of customer documents, and are generally based on the number of images processed or packages mailed and the range of customization and personalization options chosen by the client. During 2015, we completed the sale and leaseback of our four North American Customer Communications production facilities for pretax proceeds totaling approximately $129.0 million. A pretax gain of approximately $39.9 million on the combined sale transactions will be deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the future lease terms. The U.S. and Canadian production facilities leases provide for initial terms of 14 years and 12.5 years, respectively, and further provide the Company with options to extend the lease terms for two consecutive five year terms at then fair market rents. The total rent payments for year one will be approximately $9.0 million and include 2% annual rent escalations, resulting in approximately $10.3 million of annual rent expense. Annual depreciation for the four facilities was approximately $6.1 million. Investments and Other Segment The Investments and Other segment is comprised of our real estate consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, investments in equity securities, private equity investments and other financial interests. The assets held by this segment are primarily passive in nature. The Investments and Other segments revenues are derived from rental income from third-party real estate leases. Rental income is recorded as revenue when, based on lease terms, it is earned. The Investments and Other segment records investment income (dividends, interest and net gains or losses on investment securities) within Other income, net. The Investments and Other segment derives part of its income from its pro rata share in the earnings or losses of certain unconsolidated affiliates. We make lease payments to certain real estate joint ventures. 23 Table of Contents Seasonality Generally, we do not have significant seasonal fluctuations in our business operations. Processing volumes for mutual fund customers within our Financial Services and Customer Communications segments are usually highest during the quarter ended March 31 due primarily to processing year-end transactions and printing and mailing of year-end statements and tax forms during January. We have historically added operating equipment in the last half of the year in preparation for processing year-end transactions, which has the effect of increasing costs for the second half of the year. Revenues and operating results from individual license sales vary depending on the timing and size of the contracts. New Authoritative Accounting Guidance See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 2 , Significant Accounting Policies - New authoritative accounting guidance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: revenue recognition; software capitalization and amortization; depreciation of fixed assets; valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill; accounting for investments; and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition We recognize revenue when it is realized or realizable and it is earned. The majority of our revenues are derived from computer processing and services and are recognized upon completion of the services provided. Software license fees, maintenance fees and other ancillary fees are recognized as services are provided or delivered and all customer obligations have been met. We generally do not have payment terms from customers that extend beyond one year. Billing for services in advance of performance is recorded as deferred revenue. We recognize revenue when the following criteria are met: 1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; 2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. If there is a customer-specific acceptance provision in a contract or if there is uncertainty about customer acceptance, the associated revenue is deferred until we have evidence of customer acceptance. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables (items) can be divided into more than one unit of accounting. An item can generally be considered a separate unit of accounting if both of the following criteria are met: 1) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a standalone basis and 2) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. Once separate units of accounting are determined, the arrangement consideration should be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. Relative selling price is obtained from sources such as vendor-specific objective evidence, which is based on the separate selling price for that or a similar item or from third-party evidence such as how competitors have priced similar items. If such evidence is unavailable, we use our best estimate of the selling price, which includes various internal factors such as our pricing strategy and market factors. We derive over 90% of our revenues as a result of providing processing and services under contracts. The majority of the amount is billed on a monthly basis, generally with thirty-day collection terms. Revenues are recognized for monthly processing and services upon performance of the services. In the event a portion of the arrangement fees are due 12 months or more from the invoice date, we have concluded that the fees do not meet the criteria for being fixed or determinable. In these cases, we recognize the revenue as the fees become due. Our standard business practice is to bill monthly for development, consulting and training services on a time and materials basis. In some cases we bill a fixed fee for development and consulting services. For fixed fee arrangements, we recognize revenue on a proportionate performance basis. 24 Table of Contents We derive less than 10% of our revenues from licensing products. We license our wealth management products, AWD products, healthcare administration processing software solutions and customer billing software solution products. Perpetual software license revenues are recognized at the time the contract is signed, the software is delivered and no future software obligations exist. Deferral of software license revenue billed results from delayed payment provisions, disproportionate discounts between the license and other services or the inability to unbundle certain services. Term software license revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement. While license fee revenues are not a significant percentage of our total operations, they can significantly impact earnings in the period in which they are recognized. Revenues from individual license sales depend heavily on the timing, size and nature of the contract. We recognize revenues for maintenance services ratably over the contract term, after collectibility has been reasonably assured. DST may enter into arrangements with broker/dealers or other third parties to sell or market closed-end fund shares. Depending on the arrangement, we may earn distribution fees for marketing and selling the underlying fund shares. Conversely, we may incur distribution expenses, including structuring fees, finders fees and referral fees paid to unaffiliated broker/dealers or introducing parties for marketing and selling underlying fund shares of a closed-end fund we sponsor. While distribution revenues and expenses are not significant percentages of our operating revenues or costs and expenses, they can significantly impact operations and earnings in the period in which they are recognized. We have entered into various agreements with related parties, principally unconsolidated affiliates, under which we provide data processing and software services. We believe that the terms of our contracts with related parties are fair to us and are no less favorable than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. We assess collection based on a variety of factors, including past collection history with the customer and the credit-worthiness of the customer. We generally do not request collateral from our customers. If we determine that collection of revenues is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred and is recognized at the time it becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowances for billing adjustments and doubtful account expense are estimated as revenues are recognized. Allowances for billing adjustments are recorded as reductions in revenues and doubtful account expense is recorded within Costs and expenses. The annual amounts for these items are immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. Software capitalization and amortization We make substantial investments in software to enhance the functionality and facilitate the delivery of our processing services as well as our sale of licensed products. Purchased software is recorded at cost and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. We also develop a large portion of our software internally. We capitalize software development costs for computer software developed or obtained for internal use after the preliminary project phase has been completed and management has committed to funding the project. For computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed to third parties, we capitalize software development costs which are incurred after the products reach technological feasibility but prior to the general release of the product to customers. The capitalized software development costs are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life, which is generally three to five years. Significant management judgment is required in determining what projects and costs associated with software development will be capitalized and in assigning estimated economic lives to the completed projects. Management specifically evaluates software development projects and analyzes the percentage of completion as compared to the initial plan and subsequent forecasts, milestones achieved and the commitment to continue funding the projects. Significant changes in any of these items may result in discontinuing capitalization of development costs, as well as immediately expensing previously capitalized costs. We review, on a quarterly basis, our capitalized software for possible impairment. Depreciation of fixed assets Our approach on personal property, specifically technology equipment, printing and inserting equipment, is to own the property as opposed to leasing it where practicable. We believe this approach provides us with better flexibility for disposing or redeploying the asset as it nears the completion of its economic life. We depreciate technology equipment using accelerated depreciation methods over the following lives: (1) non-mainframe equipmentthree years; (2) mainframe central processing unitfour years; and (3) mainframe direct access storage devicesfive years. We depreciate furniture and fixtures over estimated useful lives, principally three to five years, using accelerated depreciation methods. We depreciate large printing and inserting equipment used by the Customer Communications segment over a five to seven year life using accelerated depreciation methods. We depreciate leasehold improvements using the straight-line method over the lesser of the term of the lease or life of the improvements. Management judgment is required in assigning economic lives to fixed assets. Management specifically analyzes fixed asset additions, remaining net book values and gain/loss upon disposition of fixed assets to determine the appropriateness of assigned economic lives. Significant changes in any of these items may result in changes in the economic life assigned and the resulting depreciation expense. 25 Table of Contents Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment. We evaluate the impairment of goodwill at least annually (as of October 1) and evaluate identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and related assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or our strategy for the overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When it is determined that the carrying value of intangibles, long-lived assets or goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, we assess actual impairment based on gross cash flows. Our assessment of goodwill for impairment includes a qualitative assessment that considers various factors, including growth in operating revenues and income from operations of our reporting units since our last quantitative assessment. Our last quantitative assessment was performed in 2014, in which the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units. Our quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment includes comparing the fair value to the net book value of our reporting units. We estimate fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow models and market approaches. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. To measure the amount of any impairment loss, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the affected reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we allocate the fair value of the affected reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. Our 2015 , 2014 and 2013 annual goodwill impairment tests determined that goodwill was not impaired. Accounting for investments We have three significant types of investments: 1) investments in available-for-sale securities, the largest of which is our investment in State Street common stock; 2) investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is comprised principally of BFDS, IFDS U.K., IFDS L.P. and certain real estate joint ventures; and 3) investments in private equity funds and other investments accounted for under the cost method. We account for investments in entities in which we own less than 20% and do not have significant influence in accordance with authoritative guidance related to accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities, which requires us to designate our investments as trading or available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and recorded net of deferred taxes directly to Accumulated other comprehensive income within Stockholders equity. We record an investment impairment charge for an investment with a gross unrealized holding loss resulting from a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investments current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our financial position. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities, partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where we are the limited partner) in which we have significant influence but do not control. We classify these investments as unconsolidated affiliates. Under the equity method, we recognize income or losses from our pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of our investment and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate. The cost method of accounting is used for these investments when we have a de-minimus ownership percentage and do not have significant influence. Our cost method investments are held at the lower of cost or market. 26 Table of Contents Accounting for income taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with authoritative accounting guidance. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for potential tax exposures based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be required. If we ultimately determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary, then we reverse the liability and recognize a tax benefit during the period in which we determine that the liability is no longer necessary. We also recognize tax benefits to the extent that it is more likely than not that our positions will be sustained if challenged by the taxing authorities. To the extent we prevail in matters for which liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given period may be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require cash payments and may result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. We report interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions as income taxes. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated operating results (in millions). Additional information regarding our segments is included below under the caption, Year to Year Business Segment Comparisons. Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 2,013.0 $ 2,042.0 $ 1,960.6 $ (29.0 ) (1.4 )% $ 81.4 4.2 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 812.1 707.3 698.0 104.8 14.8 % 9.3 1.3 % Total revenues 2,825.1 2,749.3 2,658.6 75.8 2.8 % 90.7 3.4 % Costs and expenses 2,397.5 2,309.4 2,202.1 88.1 3.8 % 107.3 4.9 % Depreciation and amortization 122.0 131.0 143.3 (9.0 ) (6.9 )% (12.3 ) (8.6 )% Income from operations 305.6 308.9 313.2 (3.3 ) (1.1 )% (4.3 ) (1.4 )% Interest expense (24.1 ) (26.6 ) (34.5 ) (2.5 ) (9.4 )% (7.9 ) (22.9 )% Gain on sale of business 100.5 (100.5 ) (100.0 )% 100.5 100.0 % Other income, net 204.5 373.5 243.2 (169.0 ) (45.2 )% 130.3 53.6 % Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 45.8 35.4 23.0 10.4 29.4 % 12.4 53.9 % Income before income taxes and non-controlling interest 531.8 791.7 544.9 (259.9 ) (32.8 )% 246.8 45.3 % Income taxes 173.7 198.4 192.3 (24.7 ) (12.4 )% 6.1 3.2 % Net income 358.1 593.3 352.6 (235.2 ) (39.6 )% 240.7 68.3 % Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 100.0 % 100.0 % Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. $ 358.2 $ 593.3 $ 352.6 $ (235.1 ) (39.6 )% $ 240.7 68.3 % Revenues Consolidated total revenues (including out-of-pocket (OOP) reimbursements) increased $75.8 million or 2.8% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 and increased $90.7 million or 3.4% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 . Consolidated operating revenues decreased $29.0 million or 1.4% in 2015 as compared to 2014 and increased $81.4 million or 4.2% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . 27 Table of Contents The operating revenue decline in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily attributable to decreased operating revenues in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments, partially offset by growth in operating revenues in the Customer Communications segment. The operating revenue growth in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to increased operating revenues in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments, partially offset by a slight decline in operating revenues in the Customer Communications segment. Consolidated OOP reimbursements increased $104.8 million or 14.8% in 2015 as compared to 2014 and increased $9.3 million or 1.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . The increases in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2015 and 2014 is primarily attributable to new client volumes in the Customer Communications segment. Costs and expenses Consolidated costs and expenses (including OOP reimbursements) increased $88.1 million or 3.8% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 and increased $107.3 million or 4.9% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $812.1 million in 2015 , an increase of $104.8 million as compared to 2014 and $707.3 million in 2014 , an increase of $9.3 million as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses decreased $16.7 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 and increased $98.0 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 . On this basis, the decrease in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily attributable to decreased costs and expenses in the Financial Services and Customer Communications segments, partially offset by increased costs and expenses in the Healthcare Services segment. Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, the increase in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily attributable to increased costs and expenses in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments, partially offset by decreased costs and expenses in the Customer Communications segment. As a result of changes in our business environment, from time to time we will restructure one or more of our businesses to enhance operational efficiency. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we incurred $3.4 million of pretax charges related to employee termination costs as a result of a restructuring initiative within the Healthcare Services segment which includes the closure of an operating location at the end of the existing lease term in mid-2016. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred $12.7 million of pretax charges related to employee and lease termination costs related to these restructuring initiatives ($8.5 million in Financial Services and $4.2 million in Customer Communications). Depreciation and amortization Consolidated depreciation and amortization decreased $9.0 million or 6.9% during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 and decreased $12.3 million or 8.6% during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 . The decrease in 2015 was attributable to a decline within the Customer Communications. The decrease in 2014 was primarily attributable to a decline within the Customer Communications segment, partially offset by increases in the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments. Income from operations Consolidated income from operations decreased $3.3 million or 1.1% to $305.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 and decreased $4.3 million or 1.4% to $308.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . The decrease in 2015 was primarily attributable to declines within the Financial Services and Healthcare Services segments partially offset by growth in the Customer Communications segment. The decrease in 2014 was primarily attributable to a decline within the Financial Services segment, partially offset by increases in the Healthcare Services, Customer Communications and Investments and Other segments. Interest expense Interest expense was $24.1 million , $26.6 million and $34.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Interest expense decreased 9.4% during 2015 as compared to 2014 and 22.9% during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily from lower weighted average debt balances outstanding. Gain on sale of business On November 30, 2014, we sold Global Solutions for cash consideration of $95.0 million , subject to customary working capital post-closing adjustments. During 2015, we received cash proceeds of $7.9 million in settlement of the working capital post-closing adjustments. We recorded a pretax gain of $100.5 million on the sale of the business during 2014. Our pretax gain exceeded our sale proceeds primarily from the reclassification of cumulative translation adjustments due to the substantial 28 Table of Contents liquidation of certain foreign entities, partially offset by transaction costs. The carrying value of the entities sold was minimal. Operating revenue generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold was approximately $61.4 million and $71.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Operating income generated from the Global Solutions businesses sold was approximately $6.9 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Other income, net The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities $ 168.4 $ 181.4 $ 193.0 Net gains on private equity funds and other investments 35.7 27.8 31.2 Dividend income 8.3 11.4 13.1 Gain on sale of private company investment 103.6 Private company investment dividend 33.2 Gain on contract to repurchase shares of DST Common Stock 18.1 Miscellaneous items (7.9 ) (2.0 ) 5.9 Other income, net $ 204.5 $ 373.5 $ 243.2 Included in the net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities during 2015, 2014 and 2013 were gains of $157.3 million , $169.3 million and $130.3 million, respectively, from the sale of approximately 2.3 million , 2.6 million and 2.3 shares, respectively, of State Street Corporation. We recorded a net gain on private equity funds and other investments of $35.7 million , $27.8 million and $31.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, primarily due to distributions received from certain of our private equity fund investments resulting in realized gains. We recorded $0.2 million , $2.2 million and $0.6 million of net impairments on private equity funds and other investments related to adverse market conditions and poor performance of the underlying investments during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments and may require an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on our net income. In 2014 , we received cash dividends of $33.2 million from a cost method investment in a privately-held company. Following receipt of the dividend, we sold our remaining interest in the privately-held company, resulting in pre-tax cash proceeds and a related gain of $103.6 million . We repurchased $200.0 million of our common stock from a group of stockholders including George L. Argyros, Julia A. Argyros, and certain of their affiliates (collectively, the Argyros Group or Argyros) during 2014. The price paid per share was determined in connection with the secondary offering of Argyros DST common stock in May 2014. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. We receive dividend income from certain investments held, of which State Street Corporation is the most significant. State Streets quarterly dividend per common share was $0.34 , $0.30 , and $0.26 per share during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Dividends received from State Street common stock were $3.2 million , $6.6 million and $8.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 International Financial Data Services (U.K. and L.P.) $ 29.9 $ 19.1 $ 9.7 Boston Financial Data Services, Inc. 5.3 5.1 8.2 Other unconsolidated affiliates 10.6 11.2 5.1 Total $ 45.8 $ 35.4 $ 23.0 29 Table of Contents Additional condensed financial information of our significant operating unconsolidated affiliates, BFDS and IFDS, is presented below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Total revenues $ 1,081.2 $ 1,111.0 $ 912.7 Costs and expenses 947.8 1,009.7 855.1 Depreciation and amortization 38.9 39.1 30.4 Income from operations 94.5 62.2 27.2 Non-operating income 2.8 3.4 23.1 Income before income taxes 97.3 65.6 50.3 Income taxes 27.0 17.0 14.7 Net income $ 70.3 $ 48.6 $ 35.6 Equity in earnings of IFDS increased $10.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to 2014 , primarily attributable to higher revenues recognized related to the ongoing client conversion activities of the wealth management platform clients in the U.K., organic growth at existing customers and new client processing revenues. Partially offsetting the increased revenues are higher operating costs as IFDS expands its infrastructure to prepare for the addition of new clients and associated service offerings as well as negative foreign currency impacts in both the U.K. and Canada. The multi-year implementation efforts for the previously announced two new clients are continuing to progress and are expected to be completed in phases over the next few years. In 2014, IFDS began capitalizing a significant portion of the software development costs being incurred to develop the wealth management platform for the U.K. market resulting in approximately 66.3 million ( 33.2 million at DSTs 50% ownership) of capitalized costs through December 31, 2015 . These costs will continue to be incurred as the platform is completed. During 2015, IFDS migrated a portion of one of these clients accounts onto the wealth management platform. IFDS continues to work with these clients on the scope and timing of the remaining development and implementation efforts which will impact the timing of the recognition of these revenues associated with these activities, as well as the level of development efforts that will be self-funded by IFDS. During 2016, we anticipate that the combination of the lower development revenue, reduced capitalization of costs as IFDS shifts from development work to servicing the new clients, and the increased expense from the amortization of costs previously capitalized will reduce 2016 earnings from IFDS as compared to 2015. Equity in earnings of IFDS increased $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 , as compared to 2013 , primarily attributable to revenues recognized related to the ongoing conversion activities of the wealth management clients in the U.K. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced on their shareowner accounting platform were 22.1 million at December 31, 2015 , a decrease of 1.7 million accounts or 7.1% as compared to December 31, 2014 . The decrease was primarily due to the transition of one of IFDS clients off of the FAST platform and onto the wealth management platform, partially offset by organic growth and new client conversions. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 23.8 million at December 31, 2014 , an increase of 2.0 million accounts or 9.2% as compared to December 31, 2013 . Equity in earnings of BFDS increased $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . The increase was primarily attributable to a reduction in operating costs. Equity in earnings of BFDS decreased $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . The decrease was primarily attributable to lower shareowner processing revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced, partially offset by higher revenues from ancillary services. Favorable reductions in BFDS operating expenses were largely offset by investments in ancillary product offerings and severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken during 2014. Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $10.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 , a decrease of $0.6 million as compared to 2014 . The decrease was primarily due to a $5.7 million gain recognized upon the the sale of an unconsolidated affiliate during 2014, partially offset by a $3.6 million gain resulting from the sale of real estate by an unconsolidated affiliate during 2015. Our equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $11.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $6.1 million as compared to 2013 . The increase was primarily due to the sale of our investment in an unconsolidated affiliate which resulted in a gain of $5.7 million. 30 Table of Contents Income taxes Our effective tax rate was 32.7% , 25.1% and 35.3% for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The effective tax rates in each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 were affected by tax benefits relating to certain international operations and recognition of state tax benefits associated with income apportionment rules. Our income tax rate for 2015 was favorably impacted by a $11.9 million benefit from the completion of the IRS examination of previously filed federal income tax refund claims for Domestic Manufacturing Deductions, research and experimentation credits and capital losses for the period 2010 as well as other remeasurements during the period. Our effective income tax rate for 2014 was favorably impacted by the reversal of $30.3 million of uncertain tax position liabilities, net of additions, primarily related to statute expirations. Our effective income tax rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by a $16.1 million benefit from the completion of the IRS examination of previously filed federal income tax refund claims for Domestic Manufacturing Deductions under Internal Revenue Code Section 199 and research and experimentation credits for the periods 2006 through 2009. The 2013 effective tax rate also included a tax expense of $7.5 million relating to an increase in the overall incremental U.S. tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings previously considered permanently reinvested. Excluding the effect of discrete period items, we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 36% in 2016 . The 2016 tax rate can be affected as a result of variances among the estimates and amounts of 2016 sources of taxable income (e.g., domestic consolidated, joint venture and/or international), the realization of tax credits, adjustments which may arise from the resolution of tax matters under review and our assessment of our liability for uncertain tax positions. YEAR TO YEAR BUSINESS SEGMENT COMPARISONS FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Financial Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 1,092.7 $ 1,117.5 $ 1,063.3 $ (24.8 ) (2.2 )% $ 54.2 5.1 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 70.4 60.5 51.3 9.9 16.4 % 9.2 17.9 % Total revenues 1,163.1 1,178.0 1,114.6 (14.9 ) (1.3 )% 63.4 5.7 % Costs and expenses 902.5 903.9 820.8 (1.4 ) (0.2 )% 83.1 10.1 % Depreciation and amortization 72.0 72.4 69.1 (0.4 ) (0.6 )% 3.3 4.8 % Income from operations $ 188.6 $ 201.7 $ 224.7 $ (13.1 ) (6.5 )% $ (23.0 ) (10.2 )% Operating margin 17.3 % 18.0 % 21.1 % 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the Financial Services segments statistical metrics (in millions, except as noted): December 31, 2015 2014 2013 U.S. shareowner accounts processed: Registered accounts - non tax-advantaged 27.0 29.6 30.6 IRA mutual fund accounts 21.8 22.3 23.0 Other retirement accounts 8.2 8.1 8.3 Section 529 and Educational IRAs 8.4 8.8 9.3 Registered accounts - tax-advantaged 38.4 39.2 40.6 Total registered accounts 65.4 68.8 71.2 Subaccounts 31.3 28.6 25.7 Total U.S. shareowner accounts 96.7 97.4 96.9 International shareowner accounts processed: IFDS U.K. 8.8 11.3 10.2 IFDS L.P. (Canada) 13.3 12.5 11.6 Total international shareowner accounts 22.1 23.8 21.8 Defined contribution participant accounts 7.0 7.2 6.9 ALPS (in billions of U.S. dollars) : Assets Under Management $ 14.7 $ 15.3 $ 11.8 Assets Under Administration $ 140.4 $ 176.9 $ 147.7 Automatic Work Distributor workstations (in thousands) 211.4 212.5 209.7 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Changes in registered accounts: Beginning balance 68.8 71.2 75.7 New client conversions 0.4 Subaccounting conversions to DST platforms (1.8 ) (0.6 ) (1.6 ) Subaccounting conversions to non-DST platforms (1.1 ) (1.9 ) (3.5 ) Conversions to non-DST platforms (0.3 ) (1.0 ) (0.2 ) Organic growth (decline) (0.2 ) 1.1 0.4 Ending balance 65.4 68.8 71.2 Changes in subaccounts: Beginning balance 28.6 25.7 12.4 New client conversions 5.7 Conversions from non-DST registered platforms 1.1 0.7 1.5 Conversions from DSTs registered accounts 1.8 0.6 1.6 Organic growth (decline) (0.2 ) 1.6 4.5 Ending balance 31.3 28.6 25.7 Changes in defined contribution participant accounts: Beginning balance 7.2 6.9 6.1 New client conversions 0.1 0.3 1.3 Organic growth (decline) (0.3 ) (0.5 ) Ending balance 7.0 7.2 6.9 32 Table of Contents Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,092.7 million reflect a decrease of $24.8 million or 2.2% in 2015 as compared to 2014 . The decrease in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily due to the sale of Global Solutions in November of 2014 and foreign currency movements. Global Solutions contributed $61.4 million of operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 and foreign currency movements reduced operating revenue by approximately $16.2 million during 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 . Excluding Global Solutions 2014 results and the foreign currency impacts, Financial Services operating revenues increased $52.8 million or 5.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014 , primarily driven from year-over-year growth across a number of our service offerings. Specifically, operating revenues increased as a result of increased professional services revenue associated with our Bluedoor wealth management platform business as well as organic and new client growth within our Retirement and Brokerage Solutions businesses. Additionally, the businesses acquired during 2015 have contributed $10.4 million of operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increases were partially offset by decreased revenue from our U.S. registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions. Additionally, software license revenues (excluding Global Solutions) were $33.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , a decrease of $0.4 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $902.5 million , a decrease of $1.4 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses in the Financial Services segment are primarily comprised of compensation and benefit costs, but also include technology related expenditures and reimbursable operating expenses. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $70.4 million in 2015 , an increase of $9.9 million as compared to 2014 . Additionally, Global Solutions incurred $49.3 million of costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 and foreign currency movements reduced costs and expenses by $16.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, the Global Solutions 2014 results and foreign currency impacts, Financial Services costs and expenses increased $21.6 million or 2.7% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2015 was primarily from acquisitions completed during 2015, which included approximately $6.2 million of incremental expenses related to amortization associated with acquired intangibles and performance-related contingent consideration. The increase in costs and expenses was also attributable to increased security, regulatory compliance and network infrastructure costs, as well as higher costs associated with new business initiatives as we expand our service offerings and expand our Bluedoor wealth management platform in the U.K. These costs and expenses were partially offset by lower transaction and advisory costs of $1.2 million in 2015 as compared to $5.6 million of advisory and transaction costs incurred during 2014 in connection with the Argyros transaction and $13.0 million of costs incurred in 2014 related to restructuring activities. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $72.0 million , a decrease of $0.4 million or 0.6% as compared to 2014 . The decrease in 2015 was primarily attributable to the sale of Global Solutions in 2014, partially offset by increased amortization costs associated with acquired intangibles from the acquisitions completed during 2015. Income from operations Financial Services segment income from operations for 2015 was $188.6 million , a decrease of $13.1 million or 6.5% as compared to 2014 . Global Solutions contributed income from operations of $6.9 million in 2014. Excluding Global Solutions, income from operations decreased $6.2 million or 3.2% . The decrease in Financial Services income from operations was primarily from higher operating expenses due to investments in our systems and infrastructure and the development of new business initiatives. Income from operations was also adversely impacted by approximately $6.2 million of incremental expense resulting from amortization of acquired intangibles and expense for performance-related contingent consideration associated with our 2015 acquisitions. These decreases were partially offset by lower costs incurred as a result of restructuring activities undertaken in 2014. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Operating revenues Financial Services segment operating revenues of $1,117.5 million increased $54.2 million or 5.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013 was primarily from higher operating revenues within our ALPS business. ALPS operating revenues increased over the comparable prior year periods as a result of net positive funds flow and favorable market conditions which contributed to the growth of assets under management within the ALPS proprietary funds and increases in other ALPS distribution and services revenues. Also contributing to the increased operating revenues was an increase in subaccounts processed as a result of organic growth from existing clients and new clients. Excluding a $6.0 million contract termination payment received in 2013, our operating revenues from retirement solutions increased during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 principally from higher professional services fee revenue and higher participants as a result of the conversion of new clients. Operating revenues also increased in 2014 due to higher professional services revenue from the implementation and configuration of new wealth management clients. The increase in Financial Services operating revenues were partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. Financial Services operating revenues included approximately $41.2 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $3.1 million as compared to 2013 . The growth in operating revenues was partially offset by the sale of Global Solutions on November 30, 2014. Global Solutions operating revenue decreased $9.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to one less month of operations in 2014. We also experienced decreased revenue from our U.S. registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions. Costs and expenses Financial Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $903.9 million , an increase of $83.1 million as compared to 2013 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $60.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $9.2 million as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $843.4 million for 2014 , an increase of $73.9 million as compared to 2013 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2014 was primarily from increased costs to support higher revenues, higher costs associated with new business initiatives, higher costs associated with the growth of ALPS asset gathering business, and investments to further develop the Applied Analytics and Brokerage Solutions service offerings. In addition, costs increased due to enhancing our regulatory compliance and security programs. We also incurred higher restructuring charges and advisory and other transaction costs during 2014, primarily as a result of a $13.0 million charge resulting from the restructuring event implemented during 2014 to reduce our workforce and consolidate certain facilities to enhance operational efficiency within the Financial Services segment and $5.6 million of advisory and other transaction costs incurred in connection with the agreement reached with Argyros in 2014. These increases in costs and expenses were partially offset by lower mark-to-market losses on deferred compensation liabilities (the effect of which is offset within other income), changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies and lower expenses associated with the fund launched by ALPS of $2.8 million in 2013 that did not recur in 2014. Depreciation and amortization Financial Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $72.4 million , an increase of $3.3 million or 4.8% as compared to 2013 . The increase in 2014 was primarily from higher capital expenditures. Income from operations Financial Services segment income from operations for 2014 was $201.7 million , a decrease of $23.0 million or 10.2% as compared to 2013 . The decrease in Financial Services income from operations was primarily from higher operating expenses to support incremental revenues and new business initiatives as well as increased risk, compliance and security costs, partially offset by higher operating revenues and $11.0 million of lower mark-to-market losses. Global Solutions, which was sold as of November 30, 2014, had $3.0 million less operating income in 2014 than during the full year 2013. Additionally, income from operations during 2013 included a $6.0 million contract termination payment that did not recur in 2014. 34 Table of Contents HEALTHCARE SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Healthcare Services segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 376.4 $ 382.2 $ 333.3 $ (5.8 ) (1.5 )% $ 48.9 14.7 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements 8.2 6.8 6.2 1.4 20.6 % 0.6 9.7 % Total revenues 384.6 389.0 339.5 (4.4 ) (1.1 )% 49.5 14.6 % Costs and expenses 321.3 308.5 270.5 12.8 4.1 % 38.0 14.0 % Depreciation and amortization 18.6 19.5 19.3 (0.9 ) (4.6 )% 0.2 1.0 % Income from operations $ 44.7 $ 61.0 $ 49.7 $ (16.3 ) (26.7 )% $ 11.3 22.7 % Operating margin 11.9 % 16.0 % 14.9 % The following tables summarize the Healthcare Services segments statistical metrics (in millions): December 31, 2015 2014 2013 DST Health Solutions covered lives 26.0 24.2 23.5 Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Argus pharmacy paid claims 494.4 486.6 444.0 Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $376.4 million decreased $5.8 million or 1.5% in 2015 compared to 2014 . The decrease in operating revenue during the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily from lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from a partial client deconversion on January 1, 2015. This decrease was largely offset by increased pharmacy and medical claims transaction volumes due to organic growth and higher business process outsourcing revenues. Operating revenues included approximately $9.1 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 , an increase of $0.5 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $321.3 million , an increase of $12.8 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits costs but also include technology-related expenditures. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $8.2 million in 2015 , an increase of $1.4 million as compared to 2014 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $313.1 million for 2015 , an increase of $11.4 million as compared to 2014 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2015 was primarily from a $3.4 million restructuring charge and increased staffing costs to support the expansion of our clinical, network and analytic capabilities in order to more effectively compete in the broader competitive PBM market. Staffing costs also increased in order to service the higher medical transaction volumes due to growth in business process outsourcing services which generally require more support. Additionally, costs increased in 2015 in order to implement several new clients expected to transition onto our medical claims platform in 2016. Costs were also higher due to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million during 2014. The increased costs and expenses were partially offset by an incremental $5.7 million liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors involving certain pharmacy claim transactions which did not recur in 2015. 35 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $18.6 million , a decrease of $0.9 million or 4.6% as compared to 2014 . Income from operations Healthcare Services segment income from operations for 2015 was $44.7 million , a decrease of $16.3 million or 26.7% as compared to 2014 . The decrease in income from operations was primarily attributable to decreased revenues from lower pharmacy claims processing revenues resulting from a partial client deconversion on January 1, 2015. Additionally, the decrease in income from operations was due to a restructuring charge and increased staffing costs incurred to expand our capabilities and service offerings as well as service growth in our business process outsourcing services that generally require a higher level of support. Costs also increased as a result of the implementation efforts for several new clients expected to transition onto our medical claims platform in 2016. The increase in costs were also due to the resolution of a previously disclosed regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million during 2014. The increased costs and expenses were offset by an incremental $6.4 million liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors involving certain pharmacy claim transactions which did not recur in 2015. Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Operating revenues Healthcare Services segment operating revenues of $382.2 million increased $48.9 million or 14.7% as compared to 2013 . The increase in operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily from increased pharmacy claims processing revenues principally due to growth in Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare exchange members at existing clients. Revenues were also higher than in the prior year as a result of increases in discount card services and higher service level incentives earned. Operating revenues also increased from medical claims transaction volume growth from new and existing clients, higher medical claim business process outsourcing revenues and increased software license sales. Operating revenues included approximately $8.6 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $1.0 million as compared to 2013 . Costs and expenses Healthcare Services segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $308.5 million , an increase of $38.0 million as compared to 2013 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $6.8 million in 2014 , an increase of $0.6 million as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $301.7 million for 2014 , an increase of $37.4 million as compared to 2013 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2014 was primarily from increased staffing costs, higher client conversion and implementation costs and higher claim processing costs due to the increased volume and complexity of transactions processed. The increase in costs was also impacted by an incremental $6.4 million estimated liability recorded during 2014 related to processing errors identified for certain pharmacy claim transactions. Additionally, the year ended December 31, 2014 was impacted by the resolution of a regulatory inquiry which resulted in the reversal of $4.0 million previously accrued in excess of the final settlement amount of $2.0 million. During 2013, the loss accrual for this matter was increased by $2.5 million based upon our best estimate of the potential liability at that time. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $19.5 million , an increase of $0.2 million or 1.0% as compared to 2013 . Income from operations Healthcare Services segment income from operations for 2014 was $61.0 million , an increase of $11.3 million or 22.7% as compared to 2013 . The increase in income from operations was primarily attributable to higher revenues and the $6.5 million impact year-over-year from the resolution of a regulatory inquiry, partially offset by increased staffing costs incurred to complete new client implementations and to service the increased transaction volumes. The increase in operating income was also partially offset by a $6.4 million increase in processing error costs in 2014 as compared with 2013. 36 Table of Contents CUSTOMER COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Customer Communications segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 627.0 $ 616.2 $ 625.1 $ 10.8 1.8 % $ (8.9 ) (1.4 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 746.5 652.2 648.5 94.3 14.5 % 3.7 0.6 % Total revenues 1,373.5 1,268.4 1,273.6 105.1 8.3 % (5.2 ) (0.4 )% Costs and expenses 1,274.6 1,184.8 1,188.6 89.8 7.6 % (3.8 ) (0.3 )% Depreciation and amortization 30.5 37.8 44.1 (7.3 ) (19.3 )% (6.3 ) (14.3 )% Income from operations $ 68.4 $ 45.8 $ 40.9 $ 22.6 49.3 % $ 4.9 12.0 % Operating margin 10.9 % 7.4 % 6.5 % Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating Revenues North America $ 445.1 $ 420.5 $ 435.3 $ 24.6 5.9 % $ (14.8 ) (3.4 )% United Kingdom 181.9 195.7 189.8 (13.8 ) (7.1 )% 5.9 3.1 % Customer Communications segment $ 627.0 $ 616.2 $ 625.1 $ 10.8 1.8 % $ (8.9 ) (1.4 )% Income from Operations North America $ 64.5 $ 40.6 $ 38.1 $ 23.9 58.9 % $ 2.5 6.6 % United Kingdom 3.9 5.2 2.8 (1.3 ) (25.0 )% 2.4 85.7 % Customer Communications segment $ 68.4 $ 45.8 $ 40.9 $ 22.6 49.3 % $ 4.9 12.0 % The following table summarizes the Customer Communications segments statistical metrics (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Customer Communications Images Produced North America 10,038.2 8,713.2 9,448.0 United Kingdom 1,938.9 2,125.1 1,999.5 Total 11,977.1 10,838.3 11,447.5 Customer Communications Packages Mailed North America 2,062.6 1,888.9 2,206.6 United Kingdom 851.7 836.7 724.4 Total 2,914.3 2,725.6 2,931.0 Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Customer Communications operating revenues increased $10.8 million or 1.8% to $627.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . Customer Communications North America operating revenues increased $24.6 million or 5.9% to $445.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . The increase was primarily from incremental volumes due to the conversion of new clients and higher professional services revenues, partially offset by a decline in volumes from certain existing customers and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements of $6.2 million related to our Canadian operations for 37 Table of Contents the year ended December 31, 2015 . The organic decline in revenues from our existing clients was due to a number of factors including client efforts to migrate to electronic presentment, to suppress sheets per package or to send statements less frequently. In 2015 , Customer Communications U.K. operating revenues decreased $13.8 million primarily due to $14.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements for the year ended December 31, 2015 , partially offset by revenue growth from new and existing clients. Costs and expenses Customer Communications segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased $89.8 million or 7.6% to $1,274.6 million as compared to 2014 . Costs and expenses in the Customer Communications segment are primarily comprised of reimbursable operating expenses (primarily postage and freight), compensation and benefits costs, material costs (principally paper and ink) and other operating costs. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $746.5 million during 2015 , an increase of $94.3 million or 14.5% as compared to 2014 primarily due to postage associated with the incremental volumes from newly converted clients. Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses decreased $4.5 million or 0.8% during 2015 . On this basis, Customer Communications North America costs and expenses increased $5.7 million during 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily from higher variable expenses to support the increased revenues, partially offset by cost savings achieved through the consolidation of certain operating facilities in North America in 2014. Customer Communications U.K. costs and expenses decreased $10.2 million primarily due to $13.7 million of foreign currency exchange rate movements, partially offset by higher operating costs to service new clients. Depreciation and amortization Customer Communications segment depreciation and amortization expense was $30.5 million and $37.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. This $7.3 million decrease in 2015 as compared to 2014 is primarily attributable to lower capital expenditures. Customer Communications North America depreciation and amortization decreased $5.0 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 and Customer Communications U.K. depreciation and amortization decreased $2.3 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 . Income from operations Customer Communications segment income from operations was $68.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , an increase of $22.6 million compared to 2014 . Customer Communications North America income from operations increased $23.9 million and Customer Communications U.K. income from operations decreased $1.3 million . The increase in Customer Communications North America was primarily due to higher operating revenues and cost saving measures from closing production plants during 2014, partially offset by higher costs from increased variable expenses incurred to support the increased revenues. The decrease in Customer Communications U.K. income from operations was primarily due to higher operating costs (excluding the impact of foreign exchange movements), partially offset by revenue growth from new and existing clients and lower depreciation expense. Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Operating revenues Customer Communications segment operating revenues decreased $8.9 million or 1.4% to $616.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . Customer Communications North America operating revenues decreased $14.8 million or 3.4% to $420.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 . T he decrease was primarily from reduced volumes as a result of organic declines at existing clients and previously announced client losses. This decrease was partially offset by higher electronic solutions and postal service solutions revenue. Customer Communications U.K. operating revenues increased $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013 , primarily due to the higher volumes from new and existing clients and foreign currency exchange rates movements. 38 Table of Contents Costs and expenses Customer Communications segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased $3.8 million or 0.3% to $1,184.8 million as compared to 2013 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $652.2 million during 2014 , an increase of $3.7 million or 0.6% as compared to 2013 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, Customer Communications segment costs and expenses decreased $7.5 million during 2014 . On this basis, Customer Communications North America costs and expenses decreased $13.0 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily from reduced costs associated with the operating revenue decline partially offset by higher restructuring charges of $4.2 million, including employee termination and lease exit costs, and increased costs from higher variable expenses due to the processing for a new client beginning in November 2014. Customer Communications U.K. costs and expenses increased $5.5 million primarily due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and higher operating costs to support the increased volume of work. Depreciation and amortization Customer Communications segment depreciation and amortization expense was $37.8 million and $44.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, a decrease of $6.3 million or 14.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013 . This $6.3 million decrease in 2014 as compared to 2013 is primarily attributable to lower capital expenditures during 2013. Customer Communications North America depreciation and amortization decreased $4.3 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 and Customer Communications U.K. depreciation and amortization decreased $2.0 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 . Income from operations Customer Communications segment income from operations was $45.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , an increase of $4.9 million compared to 2013 . Customer Communications North America income from operations increased $2.5 million and the operating income from Customer Communications U.K. increased $2.4 million . The increase in Customer Communications North America was primarily due to reduced operating costs, largely offset by lower revenues. The increase in Customer Communications U.K. income from operations was primarily due to increased revenues and lower depreciation, partially offset by higher operating costs. INVESTMENTS AND OTHER SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Investments and Other segment (in millions): Change Year Ended December 31, 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 2015 2014 2013 $ % $ % Operating revenues $ 3.1 $ 7.6 $ 9.9 $ (4.5 ) (59.2 )% $ (2.3 ) (23.2 )% Out-of-pocket reimbursements 0.2 0.1 (0.2 ) (100.0 )% 0.1 100.0 % Total revenues 3.1 7.8 10.0 (4.7 ) (60.3 )% (2.2 ) (22.0 )% Costs and expenses, net of gains (1.7 ) 6.1 1.3 (7.8 ) (127.9 )% 4.8 369.2 % Depreciation and amortization 0.9 1.3 10.8 (0.4 ) (30.8 )% (9.5 ) (88.0 )% Income (loss) from operations $ 3.9 $ 0.4 $ (2.1 ) $ 3.5 875.0 % $ 2.5 (119.0 )% Operating margin 125.8 % 5.3 % (21.2 )% Comparison of 2015 versus 2014 results Operating revenues Investments and Other segment operating revenues were $3.1 million and $7.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The decrease in operating revenues during 2015 as compared to 2014 was attributable to the sale of real estate assets during 2014 that were primarily leased to third parties. 39 Table of Contents Costs and expenses Occupancy costs are generally the largest costs included in costs and expenses in the Investments and Other segment. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , the Investments and Other segment recognized a gain of $3.7 million on the sale of real estate. Excluding this gain, costs and expenses declined $4.1 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 as a result of the sale of real estate assets during 2014. Depreciation and amortization Investments and Other segment depreciation and amortization was $0.9 million and $1.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization decreased $0.4 million during 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily attributable to the sale of certain properties during 2014. Income from operations Investments and Other segment had income from operations of $3.9 million and $0.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Income from operations increased $3.5 million during 2015 as compared to 2014 , primarily from the $3.7 million gain on sale of real estate, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Comparison of 2014 versus 2013 results Operating revenues Investments and Other segment operating revenues were $7.6 million and $9.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The decrease in operating revenues during 2014 as compared to 2013 was attributable to decreased rental activities as the result of selling real estate assets occupied by third parties. Costs and expenses Investments and Other segment costs and expenses were $6.1 million and $1.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively, an increase of $4.8 million in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily related to a $4.2 million gain on the sale of real estate which reduced costs and expenses during 2013. Depreciation and amortization Investments and Other segment depreciation and amortization was $1.3 million and $10.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization decreased $9.5 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily attributable to impairments related to non-operating real estate assets of $7.4 million recorded in 2013. The remaining decline in depreciation was due to the sale of certain properties during 2014. Income from operations Investments and Other segment had income from operations of $0.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 and a loss from operations of $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 . Income from operations increased $2.5 million during 2014 as compared to 2013 , as a result of the impairment charged recorded in 2013 partially offset by gain on sale of real estate in 2014. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Companys Assessment of Short-term and Long-term Liquidity We believe that our existing cash balances and other current assets, together with cash provided by operating activities and, as necessary, our revolving credit facilities, are sufficient to meet our operating and debt service requirements and other current liabilities for at least the next 12 months. Further, we believe that our short-term liquidity may be increased by monetizing available-for-sale securities owned by our domestic subsidiaries (which were $219.5 million at December 31, 2015 ) and other assets, and that our longer term liquidity and capital requirements will also be met through cash provided by operating activities, bank credit facilities and available-for-sale securities and other investments. At December 31, 2015 , total cash and cash equivalents were $89.6 million , of which $27.2 million was held outside of the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less foreign tax credits. We have accrued for U.S. federal and state tax liabilities on the earnings of our international subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. The repatriation of these earnings could result in additional U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. 40 Table of Contents At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately $794.0 million of availability under our domestic revolving credit facilities. There are no credit facilities with outstanding amounts as of December 31, 2015 that are scheduled to mature in 2016. Sources and Uses of Cash We had $89.6 million , $151.7 million and $62.5 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Our primary source of liquidity has historically been cash provided by operations. In addition, we have used proceeds from the sale of investments to fund other investing and financing activities. Principal uses of cash are operations, reinvestment in our proprietary technologies, capital expenditures, investment purchases, business acquisitions, payments on debt, stock repurchases and dividend payments. In 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the use of cash to invest as seed money in newly launched funds. We anticipate that these seed money investments will enable the funds to more quickly achieve critical mass, establish a proven track record and obtain third-party investments. In October 2015, we initiated our first investment under this seed capital program with a $25.0 million investment into a newly launched open-end fund. Additionally, in October 2015 we completed the sale and leaseback of our four North American Customer Communications production facilities which resulted in pretax proceeds totaling approximately $129.0 million. Information on our consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is presented in the Statement of Cash Flows, categorized by operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities were $220.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 . Operating cash flows during 2015 included net income of $358.1 million adjusted for $82.2 million of non-cash net gains, and $4.4 million cash dividends from unconsolidated affiliates resulting in net cash flows of $280.3 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $60.1 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Significant changes in operating assets and liabilities include a $13.3 million use of cash related to a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits, a $14.7 million use of cash resulting from a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and a $27.3 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $312.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Operating cash flows during 2014 included net income of $593.3 million adjusted for $282.5 million of non-cash net gains, and $1.8 million cash dividends from unconsolidated affiliates resulting in net cash flows of $312.6 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $0.1 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Significant changes in operating assets and liabilities include an $18.0 million use of cash to fund an increase in accounts receivable, a $16.0 million source of cash resulting from an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and a $23.2 million use of cash related to timing of tax payments. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $395.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Operating cash flows during 2013 resulted principally from net income of $352.6 million, adjustments for non-cash net gains of $74.3 million and $129.4 million in dividends from unconsolidated affiliates (including a $125.0 million dividend received from BFDS) resulting in net cash flows of $407.7 million . Cash provided from operating activities also included a $12.5 million use of cash resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The significant operating assets and liabilities changes during 2013 included a decrease in accounts receivable of $15.8 million , a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $20.7 million, and a decrease in income payable of $12.8 million primarily due to timing of payments. We have had significant proceeds from the sale of investments during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 which have been included within investing activities on the Statement of Cash Flows. The income taxes paid on the gains from these investment sales are required to be treated as an operating cash outflow. Income tax expense resulting from these investment sales will reduce operating cash flows in the period that taxes are paid. Income taxes paid related to gains on the sale of investments and other non-operating assets during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 were $87.1 million , $70.4 million and $73.5 million , respectively. 41 Table of Contents Software Development and Maintenance Our software development and maintenance efforts are focused on introducing new products and services as well as enhancing existing products and services. The following table summarizes software development, maintenance and enhancements to our proprietary systems and software products which are included in net income within cash flows from operations (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Non-capitalizable software development and maintenance costs $ 142.9 $ 121.6 $ 123.7 Amortization of capitalized software development costs 25.8 26.2 31.4 Investing Activities Cash flows provided by investing activities were $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Sources of our cash inflows were primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $192.2 million , which includes $176.1 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in October 2015 we completed the sale and leaseback of our four North American Customer Communications production facilities which resulted in pretax proceeds totaling approximately $129.0 million. The proceeds from the sale and leaseback of our Canadian production facility were repatriated to the U.S. Primary uses of cash include $111.2 million of capital expenditures, higher restricted cash for client fund obligations, cash used to acquire kasina LLC, Red Rocks Capital LLC and Wealth Management Systems Inc. during 2015 and investments within the newly launched open-end fund. Cash flows provided by investing activities during 2014 of $304.7 million were primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $343.0 million , which includes $190.3 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in 2014 cash flows from investing activities increased due to proceeds received from sale of Global Solutions of $77.4 million and proceeds from sale of non-operating real estate of $32.6 million . These cash inflows were partially offset by capital expenditures of $113.4 million . Cash flows provided by investing activities were $310.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily attributable to net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) of $332.9 million , which includes $148.8 million of pretax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. Additionally, in 2013 cash flows from investing activities increased $71.5 million due to lower restricted cash held for pharmacy processing client fund obligations. These cash inflows were partially offset by capital expenditures of $102.8 million . Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes capital expenditures by segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Financial Services segment $ 83.0 $ 72.5 $ 69.1 Healthcare Services segment 6.1 10.1 10.8 Customer Communications segment 21.6 30.5 22.4 Investments and Other segment 0.5 0.3 0.5 $ 111.2 $ 113.4 $ 102.8 During 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we capitalized software development costs of $23.5 million , $28.8 million and $28.4 million , respectively. Additionally, we used debt to acquire approximately $2.5 million of equipment during 2013 . Capital expenditures using debt are treated as non-cash transactions and are not included in the annual capital expenditure amounts above. We anticipate our 2016 capital expenditures to total approximately $100.0 million. Future capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily by cash flows from operating activities or through borrowings on our revolving credit facilities. 42 Table of Contents Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities totaled $284.8 million , $528.0 million and $731.1 million during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases We received cash proceeds of $11.8 million , $13.0 million and $30.6 million from the issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The value of shares received in exchange for satisfaction of the exercise price and for tax-withholding obligations arising from the exercise of options to purchase our stock or from the vesting of restricted shares are included in Common stock repurchased in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. During January 2015, we spent $50.0 million to purchase 0.5 million shares which completed an existing share repurchase plan authorized in 2014. On January 28, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a new $250.0 million share repurchase plan, which allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions, and on July 29, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $250.0 million of share repurchases, which is incremental to the existing plan. We repurchased an additional 3.1 million shares of our common stock for $350.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 , resulting in approximately $150.0 million remaining under our existing share repurchase plan authorized in 2015. Under previous share repurchase plans, we expended $200.0 million for approximately 2.2 million shares and $252.6 million for approximately 3.4 million shares during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. As of March 23, 2014, Argyros beneficially owned 9.2 million shares or approximately 22% of DST common shares. During March 2014, we entered into an agreement under which we agreed to a two-step process to assist Argyros with the disposition of a substantial portion of its common stock ownership in DST. To implement Argyros disposition, we facilitated the May 2014 registered, secondary common stock offering of $450.0 million (before any overallotment option) of DST common stock beneficially owned by Argyros. Concurrent with the closing of the secondary offering and based upon a price determined in the secondary offering, DST repurchased, and simultaneously retired, 2.4 million shares of our common stock from Argyros for $200.0 million. In connection with this share repurchase, we recorded a non-cash gain of $18.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 resulting from the change in stock price between the date the share repurchase price became fixed and the settlement date. Dividends We paid cash dividends of $1.20 per common share in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . The total cash paid for dividends in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 was $43.1 million , $47.6 million and $51.8 million , respectively. On January 27, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.33 per share on our common stock, payable on March 15, 2016 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2016 . Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Client Funds Obligations Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. We had $533.4 million , $399.6 million and $ 366.5 million of client funds obligations at December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Debt Activity During 2015 , we had the following primary sources of debt financing: our syndicated revolving credit facility; subsidiary line of credit facilities; accounts receivable securitization program; and privately placed senior notes (the Senior Notes). We had $562.1 million , $552.9 million and $683.0 million of debt outstanding at December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, an increase of $9.2 million during 2015 and a decrease of $130.1 million during 2014 . The increase in debt outstanding during 2015 was primarily from higher borrowings on the syndicated revolving credit facility, partially offset by the repayment of the Series A Senior Notes and the pay down of the accounts receivable securitization line. In 2015 , we renewed our accounts receivable securitization program for a three year term through May 2018. The decrease in debt outstanding during 2014 was primarily from the repayment of the $125.0 million term loan credit facility in June 2014. 43 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary indebtedness, asset dispositions and require certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios to be maintained. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. A default under certain of our borrowings could trigger defaults under certain of our other debt obligations, which in turn could result in their maturities being accelerated. Our debt arrangements are described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments (in millions): Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1 - 3 Years 3 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 562.1 $ 5.6 $ 170.4 $ 386.1 $ Operating lease obligations 244.6 32.2 55.1 44.1 113.2 Software license agreements 108.9 53.6 51.4 3.9 Other 44.8 25.5 13.7 4.9 0.7 $ 960.4 $ 116.9 $ 290.6 $ 439.0 $ 113.9 Interest obligations on our outstanding debt are not included in the table above. The syndicated revolving credit facility contains grid schedules that adjust borrowing costs up or down based upon our consolidated leverage ratio. The grid schedules may result in fluctuations in borrowing costs ranging from 1.00% to 1.70% over Eurodollar and 0.00% to 0.70% over base rate , as defined. The Senior Notes have fixed interest rates and are comprised of $105.0 million of 4.86% Series B Senior Notes, $65.0 million of 5.06% Series C Senior Notes and $160.0 million of 5.42% Series D Senior Notes. In addition to the financial instruments listed above, the program fees incurred on proceeds from the sale of receivables under our accounts receivable securitization program are determined based on variable interest rates associated with LIBOR. We have liabilities for income tax uncertainties of $73.8 million at December 31, 2015 . These obligations are classified as non-current on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as resolution of these matters is expected to take more than a year; however, the ultimate timing of resolution is uncertain. Other Commercial Commitments In the normal course of business, to facilitate transactions of services and products and other business assets, we have agreed to indemnify certain parties with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made by third parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. At December 31, 2015, except for certain immaterial items, there were no liabilities for guarantees or indemnifications as it is not possible to determine either the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements or the timing of any such payments due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made under these agreements have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity, or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. We believe that our guarantee arrangements will not have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, capital expenditures, capital resources, liquidity or results of operations. These arrangements are described above and in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 44 Table of Contents