Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors that could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United Kingdom (the "U.K."), China, Mexico, the U.S., and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, changes in tax rates and tax laws, our jurisdictional mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effects on our revenues and costs of complying with transfer pricing requirements under differing laws of various countries, consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments, the generation of sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets, and the taxation of subsidiary income in the jurisdiction of its parent company regardless of whether or not distributed. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for (or benefit from) income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Refer to Note 7: Income Taxes of our Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information related to our accounting for income taxes. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our tax rate will be in any period because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as changes in U.S. and other tax laws, treaties, and regulations, in particular related to proposed tax laws by the U.S. or other governments, which could increase our tax liabilities. Our actual global tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. We continually monitor all global regulatory developments and consider alternatives to limit their detrimental impacts. However, not all unfavorable developments can be moderated, and we may consequently experience adverse effects on our effective tax rate and cash flows. For example, the European Commission (the "EC") has been conducting investigations of state aid and have focused on whether EU sovereign country laws or rulings provide favorable treatment to taxpayers conflicting with its interpretation of EU law. EC findings may have retroactive effect and can cause increases in tax liabilities where we considered ourselves in full compliance with local legislation. Furthermore, most OECD members, including EU member states, have implemented the Pillar Two framework, which establishes a global minimum jurisdictional effective tax rate of 15% for large multinational enterprises. The legislation is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2024. The dynamic nature of the legislative landscape, with outgoing changes and updates to the rules, creates uncertainty and potential for retroactive tax liabilities. We continue to evaluate the guidance and regulations of the Pillar Two framework. Any further developments could result in complexity and uncertainty in countries where we do business and could increase our effective tax rate. We could be subject to future audits conducted by both foreign and domestic tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits, and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits, and other matters could cause our global tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase, and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity that is separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay 23 Table of Contents in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to us. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "U.S. FCPA"), the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA, the U.K.'s Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. Changes in existing environmental or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for our products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; GHG emissions; product hazardous material content; and the health and safety of our employees. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities. In addition, our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling. The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted, or are proposing to enact, laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the EU RoHS, ELV, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the EU REACH regulation; the German Explosives Act; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other 24 Table of Contents matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims. Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license for export. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, loss of export privileges, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to compliance with laws and regulations controlling the import and export of goods, services, software, and technical data. Certain of our products are subject to export regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate (Controlled Items). The export of many such Controlled Items requires a license from the applicable government agency. Licensing decisions are made based on type of product, its destination, end use, end user, the parties involved in the transaction, national security, and foreign policy. As a result, export license approvals are not guaranteed. We have a trade compliance team and other systems in place to apply for licenses and otherwise comply with import and export regulations. Any failure to maintain compliance with such regulations could limit our ability to import or export raw material and finished goods. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and any such change may limit or exclude existing or future business opportunities, require us to change technology, or incur expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our trade compliance program. Although we continue to enhance our trade compliance program, we cannot guarantee that any such enhancements will ensure full compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that applicable authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights, or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert managements attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We also may be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to 25 Table of Contents injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses could in the future adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and those weaknesses have led to a conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure