Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOff-Balance Sheet Arrangements, for additional information. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and components subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition which affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. For example, we do not have a prior 25 Table of Contents relationship with all of the suppliers that we are qualifying for the supply of contacts. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality and other risks. We depend on third parties for certain transportation, warehousing and logistics services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture are transported to different countries, requiring sophisticated warehousing, logistics and other resources. If any of the countries from which we transport products were to suffer delays in exporting manufactured goods, or if any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of our raw materials could not be delivered to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. If one of our manufacturing facilities were to be shut down unexpectedly, or certain of our manufacturing operations within an otherwise operational facility were to cease production unexpectedly, our revenue and profit margins would be adversely affected. Such a disruption could be caused by a number of different events, including: maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophes; potential unrest or terrorist activity; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. In addition, approximately 96% of our products are manufactured at facilities located outside the United States. Serving a global customer base requires that we place more production in emerging markets, such as China, Mexico and Malaysia, to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our low-cost position. Our international production facilities and operations could be particularly vulnerable to the effects of a natural disaster, labor strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, especially in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad may also be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. If any of these or other events were to result in a material disruption of our manufacturing operations, our ability to meet our production capacity targets and satisfy customer requirements may be impaired. We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development. Our ability to generate revenue from products subject to customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer contracts provide for supplying a certain share of the customers requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products 26 Table of Contents the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, may be costly with no assurance of maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. We will likely experience significant operating expenses in connection with maintaining our internal control environment and Section 404 compliance activities. In addition, if we are unable to efficiently maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operations may suffer and we may be unable to obtain an attestation on internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm when required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Recent cost reduction actions, including the loss of experienced finance and administrative personnel, may adversely effect our ability to maintain effective internal controls. This, in turn, could have a materially adverse impact on trading prices for our securities and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Export of our products are subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. We must comply with the United States Export Administration Regulations, ITAR and the sanctions, regulations and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of the ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. Any changes in export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. The length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue. We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety and governmental regulations or concerns. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been and will continue to be in complete compliance with all of these requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have reserved. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may be required in the future to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and settle these claims will not be material. 27 Table of Contents Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for environmental and safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing U.S. federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy and energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and safety products which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Many of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. During the second half of 2010, we conducted an internal investigation under the direction of the audit committee of our board of directors to determine whether any laws, including the FCPA, may have been violated in connection with a certain business relationship entered into by one of our operating subsidiaries involving business in China. We believe the amount of payments and the business involved are immaterial. We discontinued the specific business relationship and did not identify any other suspect transactions in our investigation. We contacted the United States Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission to begin the process of making a voluntary disclosure of the possible violations, investigation, and initial findings. We will continue to cooperate fully with their review; however, the outcome of such review is unknown. The FCPA (and related statutes and regulations) provides for potential monetary penalties, criminal and civil sanctions, and other remedies. We are unable to estimate the potential penalties and/or sanctions, if any, that might be assessed in connection with our voluntary disclosure of possible FCPA violations. Any such penalties or sanctions may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Integration of acquired companies and any future acquisitions and joint ventures or dispositions may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. We have grown, and in the future we intend to continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. On January 28, 2011, we closed on the acquisition of the Automotive on Board business, which we will refer to as MSP. The Automotive on Board business was expected to generate approximately $130 million of revenue in 2010; however, there can be no assurance that MSP will perform as expected in the future. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and to finance those acquisitions. We will also face competition for suitable acquisition candidates that may increase our costs. In addition, acquisitions or investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Furthermore, acquisitions of businesses or facilities, including MSP and those which may occur in the future, entail a number of additional risks, including: problems with effective integration of operations; the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition customer, supplier and employee relationships; increased operating costs; and 28 Table of Contents exposure to unanticipated liabilities. Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, obtaining access to financing markets and increasing the amount of debt service. If conditions in the credit markets remain tight, the availability of debt to finance future acquisitions will be restricted and our ability to make future acquisitions will be limited. We may also seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain of our assets. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial position, leverage or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention which may be diverted from our operations and may require us to accept non-cash consideration for any sale of our assets, the market value of which may fluctuate. We may not realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from acquisitions, and we may experience difficulties in integrating these businesses, which may adversely affect our financial performance. There can be no assurance that we will realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from our acquisitions. We anticipate that we will achieve synergies from MSP over 18 to 24 months following the closing. However, there can be no assurance that any of the anticipated synergies will be achieved or that they will be achieved in our estimated time frame. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from this transaction or future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. We have taken and will continue to take tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The price charged for products, services and financing among our companies could be challenged by the various tax authorities resulting in additional tax liability, interest and/or penalties. Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us. We have significant unfunded benefit obligations with respect to our defined benefit and other post-retirement benefit plans. We provide various retirement plans for employees, including defined benefit, defined contribution and retiree healthcare benefit plans. As of December 31, 2010, we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of approximately $43.9 million representing the unfunded benefit obligations of the defined benefit and retiree healthcare plans. 29 Table of Contents We have previously experienced declines in interest rates and pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially deteriorate the funded status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2011 and beyond. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We fund certain of our benefit obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. As a result, we are subject to increased cash outlays and costs due to, among other factors, rising healthcare costs. Increases in the expected cost of health care beyond current assumptions could increase actuarially determined liabilities and related expenses along with future cash outlays. Our assumptions used to calculate pension and healthcare obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While our management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect our pension and healthcare obligations and future expense. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments which would reduce our earnings. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including tradenames. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, or 66% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, or 45% of our total assets. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value on the respective dates of acquisition. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, unexpected significant or planned changes in use of assets and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income which may impact our ability to raise capital. During fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we recorded impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets associated with our Interconnection reporting unit totaling $19.9 million and $13.2 million, respectively. No impairment charges were required during fiscal year 2010. Should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize additional goodwill or other intangible asset impairment. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including our existing Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including a maximum ratio of total indebtedness to Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility), a minimum ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense, and maximum capital expenditures. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes require us to comply with various 30 Table of Contents operational and other covenants. For purposes of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, Adjusted EBITDA is calculated using various add-backs to EBITDA. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, the leverage and coverage ratios tightened from levels in 2009 to a maximum leverage ratio covenant of 7.00 to 1 and a minimum interest coverage ratio covenant of 1.60 to 1. These ratios will remain at these amounts for the remaining term of the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Based on December 31, 2010 indebtedness (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) of $1,503.6 million, STBVs minimum last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA to maintain compliance with the maximum leverage ratio covenant is $214.8 million. Based on December 31, 2010 last twelve months interest expense (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) of $96.0 million, STBVs minimum last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA to maintain compliance with the minimum interest coverage ratio requirement is $153.6 million. STBVs last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA as of December 31, 2010 was $462.2 million. Sufficiently adverse financial performance, including the failure to achieve our financial forecasts, could result in default. Additionally, creditors may challenge the nature of our add-backs to EBITDA, possibly increasing the risk of default. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which in turn would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default. If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event. In the future, we may not secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business or to exploit opportunities. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are outside our control, including the future development of the markets in which we participate. We may need to raise additional funds to support expansion, develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional debt or equity securities or obtain other debt financing. The incurrence of debt would result in increased expenses and could include covenants that would further restrict our operations. If the credit markets remain tight, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We have reported significant net losses for fiscal 2007, 2008, and 2009 and may not sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. We incurred a significant amount of indebtedness in connection with the 2006 Acquisition and the subsequent acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax and, as a result, our interest expense has been substantial for periods following the 2006 Acquisition. Due, in part, to this significant interest expense and the amortization of intangible assets also related to these acquisitions, we have reported net losses of $27.7 million, $134.5 million and $252.5 million, for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For fiscal year 2010, we reported net income of $130.1 million. We repaid approximately $321.7 million in principal of our indebtedness in March and April 2010 with proceeds from our initial public offering (IPO). However, we continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Due to the significant interest expense associated with the remaining indebtedness and the continued amortization of intangible assets, we cannot assure you that we will sustain recently achieved profitability in the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents We are a Netherlands public limited liability company and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or to realize in the United States on any judgment against us including for civil liabilities under the United States securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained in any United States federal or state court against us may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the United States and the Netherlands with respect to legal judgments, a judgment rendered by any United States federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the United States federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law. To date, we are aware of only one case in which a Dutch court has considered whether such a foreign judgment would be enforced in the Netherlands. In that case, a U.S. court entered a default judgment against the defendant, a Netherlands resident, in a lawsuit involving a breach of contract claim. The defendant sought to relitigate the claim in the Netherlands. The Dutch lower court ruled that the criteria discussed above were satisfied with respect to the U.S. judgment, as a result of which the Dutch court granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws. Shareholders rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders. It is anticipated that all of our shareholder meetings will take place in the Netherlands. In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a companys shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company. The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our board of directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our board of directors than if we were incorporated in the United States. 32 Table of Contents We are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, applicable exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. We are a controlled company under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a group is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of such exchange, including the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors. Our principal shareholder, SCA owns approximately 64.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We will continue to rely on this exemption to the extent it is applicable, and therefore we may not have a majority of independent directors, nor will our nominating and governance or compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are not deemed controlled companies. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our ordinary shares, and our shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase them. The IPO of our ordinary shares was completed in March 2010 at a price of $18.00 per share and a secondary public offering was completed in November 2010 at a price of $24.10 per share. There has been a public market for our ordinary shares for only a relatively short period of time. An active, liquid and orderly market for our ordinary shares may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our ordinary shares. An inactive market may also impair a shareholders ability to sell any of our ordinary shares that he or she purchases. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate significantly and may be adversely affected by broad market and industry factors, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our principal shareholder continues to have control over us which could limit our other shareholders ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our principal shareholder, SCA owns approximately 64.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This entity is indirectly controlled by investment funds advised or managed by the principals of Bain Capital and, pursuant to agreements among all of its existing shareholders, Bain Capital has the right to appoint all of its directors. As a result, this shareholder would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from our other shareholders and may vote in a way with which our other shareholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their ordinary shares as part of our sale and might ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall. If our existing majority shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares could also depress the market price of our ordinary shares. A decline in the price of our ordinary shares might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We occupy 10 principal manufacturing facilities and business centers totaling approximately 2,291,000 square feet, with the majority devoted to research, development and engineering, manufacturing and assembly. Of our principal facilities, approximately 1,436,000 square feet are owned and approximately 855,000 square feet are occupied under leases. We consider our manufacturing facilities sufficient to meet our current operational requirements. We lease approximately 433,000 square feet for our U.S. headquarters in Attleboro, Massachusetts. The table below lists the location of our principal executive and operating facilities. Substantially all of our owned properties and equipment are subject to a lien under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Refer to Note 7 of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information on the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Location Operating Segment Owned or Leased Approximate Square Footage Attleboro, Massachusetts Sensors and Controls Leased 433,000 Aguascalientes, Mexico Sensors and Controls Owned 444,000 Almelo, Netherlands Sensors and Controls Owned 188,000 Oyama, Japan Sensors and Controls Owned 74,000 Jincheon, South Korea Controls Owned 133,000 Baoying, China Controls Owned 440,000 Changzhou, China Sensors and Controls Leased 252,000 Subang Jaya, Malaysia Sensors Leased 108,000 Haina, Dominican Republic Sensors and Controls Leased 62,000 Cambridge, Maryland Controls Owned 157,000 Leases covering our currently occupied leased facilities expire at varying dates, generally within the next ten years. We anticipate no difficulty in retaining occupancy through lease renewals, month-to-month occupancy or replacing the leased facilities with equivalent facilities. An increase in demand for our products may require us to expand our production capacity, which could require us to identify and acquire or lease additional manufacturing facilities. We believe that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available as required, however, if we are unable to acquire, integrate and move into production the facilities, equipment and personnel necessary to meet such increase in demand, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial performance may suffer materially. We are currently expanding our manufacturing capacity in our Baoying and Changzhou facilities to mitigate this risk. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are regularly involved in a number of claims and litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. Most of our litigation matters are third-party claims for property damage allegedly caused by our products, but some involve allegations of personal injury or wrongful death. From time to time, we are also involved in disagreement with vendors and customers. We believe that the ultimate resolution of the current litigation matters that are pending against us, except potentially those matters described below, will not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Information on other legal proceedings is included in Note 13 of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Whirlpool Recall Litigation: We are involved in litigation relating to certain control products that TI sold between 2000 and 2004 to Whirlpool Corporation (Whirlpool). The control products were incorporated into the compressors of certain refrigerators in a number of Whirlpool brands, including Maytag, Jenn-Air, Amana, Admiral, Magic Chef, Performa by Maytag, and Crosley. Whirlpool contends that the control products were defective because they allegedly fail at excessive rates, and have allegedly caused property damage, including fires. During fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we paid Whirlpool for certain costs associated with third-party claims and other external engineering costs in amounts that did not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. During 2009, Whirlpool, in conjunction with the Consumer Product Safety Commission, announced voluntary recalls of approximately 1.8 million refrigerators. 34 Table of Contents On January 28, 2009, Whirlpool Corporation, as well as its subsidiaries Whirlpool SA and Maytag Corporation, filed a lawsuit against TI and our subsidiary, Sensata Technologies, Inc. (STI). The lawsuit was filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, under the name Whirlpool Corp. et al. v. Sensata Technologies, Inc. et al. , Docket No. 2009-L-001022. The complaint asserts, among other things, contract claims as well as claims for breach of warranty, fraud, negligence, indemnification and deceptive trade practices. It seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and exemplary damages. While unspecified, we believe that Whirlpool is claiming amounts in excess of $100 million. We, along with TI, have answered the complaint and denied liability. We, along with TI, subsequently filed a cross claim for indemnification against Empresa Braseila de Compressores, S.A., n/k/a Whirlpool SA, and Embraco North America, Inc., together Embraco. We assert, among other things, that Embraco was responsible for testing the compatibility of the control product with its compressors, and that we have become exposed to litigation because of Embracos actions and inactions. We believe that Embraco is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Whirlpool SA. Discovery on all claims and cross-claims is ongoing, and the court has reserved time in October 2011 for a possible trial. In January 2009, TI elected under the Acquisition Agreement to become the controlling party for this lawsuit and will manage and defend the litigation on behalf of both parties. Although we are working with TI to defend the litigation, we believe that a loss is probable and, as of December 31, 2010, have recorded a reserve of $5.9 million for this matter. There can be no assurances, however, that this reserve will be sufficient to cover the extent of our costs and potential liability from this or any related matters. Any additional liability in excess of this reserve could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition Agreement, and subject to the limitations set forth in that agreement, TI has agreed to indemnify us for certain claims and litigation, including this matter, provided that the aggregate amount of costs and/or damages from such claims exceeds $30.0 million, in which case TI will reimburse us for amounts incurred in excess of the $30.0 million threshold up to a cap of $300.0 million. In January 2011, we notified TI that, as of December 31, 2010, we believed we had incurred approximately $27.4 million of costs that apply towards the indemnification. TI has reserved all rights to contest that claim, and may dispute all or some portion of the amount we claimed. We believe that our costs and/or damages from the Whirlpool litigation and other claims and litigation matters subject to the indemnification will ultimately exceed $30.0 million. We are also involved in a related, but separate proceeding with TIs insurer, American Alternative Insurance (American Alternative). On June 3, 2009, TI filed a lawsuit against American Alternative seeking reimbursement for our defense costs in the Whirlpool litigation and certain other third party claims. The case, Texas Instruments Incorporated v. American Alternative Ins. Corp. , was filed in the 193 rd Court of Dallas County, Texas, No. DC-09-07045-L. On October 16, 2009, American Alternative filed a third party claims against STI alleging that STI assumed liability for the Whirlpool matters under the Acquisition Agreement. On that basis, American Alternative has asserted that STI owes them any amounts that they may ultimately be required to pay to Texas Instruments. Texas Instruments is defending this claim on STIs behalf, and has filed an answer denying any liability. During the second quarter of 2010, TI informed us that they have reached a settlement with American Alternative in this matter. As of December 31, 2010, we have not recorded a reserve for this matter. The Internal Revenue Code requires that companies disclose in their Form 10-K whether they have been required to pay penalties to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for certain transactions that have been identified by the IRS as abusive or that have a significant tax avoidance purpose. We have not been required to pay any such penalties. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS (REMOVED AND RESERVED) 35 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our ordinary shares have traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol ST since March 11, 2010. Prior to that time, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sales prices per share of our ordinary shares, as reported by the NYSE, for the periods indicated. Price Range High Low 2010 Quarter ended March 31, 2010 (1) $ 19.00 $ 17.12 Quarter ended June 30, 2010 $ 21.12 $ 15.30 Quarter ended September 30, 2010 $ 20.12 $ 15.25 Quarter ended December 31, 2010 $ 31.05 $ 19.43 (1) Our ordinary shares began trading on March 11, 2010. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative return of our ordinary shares since we began trading on the NYSE on March 11, 2010, to the total returns since that date on the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the S&P 500 Industrial Index. The graph assumes that the value of the investment in our ordinary shares and each index was $100 on March 11, 2010. 36 Table of Contents Cumulative Value of $100 Investment from March 11, 2010 Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Sensata $ 97.08 $ 108.11 $ 89.89 $ 86.43 $ 87.57 $ 91.19 $ 106.81 $ 125.14 $ 150.27 $ 162.76 S&P 500 $ 101.72 $ 103.33 $ 95.08 $ 90.10 $ 96.41 $ 92.06 $ 100.28 $ 104.09 $ 104.11 $ 111.06 S&P 500 Industrial $ 104.30 $ 108.63 $ 98.28 $ 91.46 $ 100.93 $ 93.85 $ 104.54 $ 107.31 $ 111.06 $ 116.89 The information in the graph and table above is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate such information by reference. The share price performance shown on the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future price performance. Stockholders As of January 31, 2011, there were 15 holders of record of our ordinary shares. Dividends We have never declared or paid any dividends on our ordinary shares, and we do not plan to declare any such dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness. In that regard, our wholly-owned subsidiary, STBV, is limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions to its immediate parent company and, ultimately, to us. Under Dutch law, we may only pay dividends out of profits as shown in our adopted annual accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS. We will only be able to declare and pay dividends to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. Subject to these limitations, the payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, our overall financial condition and any other factors deemed relevant by our shareholders and board of directors. Refer to Note 7 of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information on our dividend restrictions. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 from the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have derived the selected consolidated statement of operations and other financial data for the year ended December 31, 2007, the period from April 27, 2006 (inception) to December 31, 2006, the selected combined statement of operations and other financial data for the period from January 1, 2006 to April 26, 2006, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 from audited consolidated and combined financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information included in this five-year financial summary has been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 37 Table of Contents You should read the following information in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. (consolidated) Predecessor (combined) For the year ended December 31, For the period April 27 (inception) to December 31, 2006 For the period January 1 to April 26, 2006 (Amounts in thousands, except per share data) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 1,540,079 $ 1,134,944 $ 1,422,655 $ 1,403,254 $ 798,507 $ 375,600 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 948,070 742,080 951,763 944,765 536,485 253,028 Research and development 24,664 16,796 38,256 33,891 19,742 8,635 Selling, general and administrative (a) 194,623 126,952 166,625 166,065 94,755 38,674 Amortization of intangible assets and capitalized software 144,514 153,081 148,762 131,064 82,740 1,078 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 19,867 13,173 Restructuring (138 ) 18,086 24,124 5,166 2,456 Total operating costs and expenses 1,311,733 1,076,862 1,342,703 1,280,951 733,722 303,871 Profit from operations 228,346 58,082 79,952 122,303 64,785 71,729 Interest expense (106,400 ) (150,589 ) (197,840 ) (191,161 ) (165,160 ) (511 ) Interest income 1,020 573 1,503 2,574 1,567 Currency translation gain/(loss) and other, net (b) 45,388 107,695 55,467 (105,449 ) (63,633 ) 115 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 168,354 15,761 (60,918 ) (171,733 ) (162,441 ) 71,333 Provision for income taxes 38,304 43,047 53,531 62,504 48,560 25,796 Income/(loss) from continuing operations 130,050 (27,286 ) (114,449 ) (234,237 ) (211,001 ) 45,537 Loss from discontinued operations (395 ) (20,082 ) (18,260 ) (1,309 ) (167 ) Net income/(loss) $ 130,050 $ (27,681 ) $ (134,531 ) $ (252,497 ) $ (212,310 ) $ 45,370 Net income/(loss) per sharebasic: Continuing operations $ 0.78 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.79 ) $ (1.62 ) $ (2.73 ) NA Discontinued operations (0.00 ) (0.14 ) (0.13 ) (0.02 ) NA Net income/(loss) per sharebasic $ 0.78 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.93 ) $ (1.75 ) $ (2.75 ) NA Net income/(loss) per sharediluted: Continuing operations $ 0.75 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.79 ) $ (1.62 ) $ (2.73 ) NA Discontinued operations (0.00 ) (0.14 ) (0.13 ) (0.02 ) NA Net income/(loss) per sharediluted $ 0.75 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.93 ) $ (1.75 ) $ (2.75 ) NA Weightedaverage ordinary shares outstandingbasic 166,278 144,057 144,066 144,054 77,276 NA Weighted-average ordinary shares outstandingdiluted 172,946 144,057 144,066 144,054 77,276 NA Other Financial Data: Net cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 300,046 $ 187,577 $ 47,481 $ 155,278 $ 129,923 $ 40,599 Investing activities (52,548 ) (15,077 ) (38,713 ) (355,710 ) (3,142,543 ) (16,705 ) Financing activities 97,696 (101,748 ) 8,891 175,736 3,097,373 (23,894 ) Capital expenditures 52,912 14,959 40,963 66,701 29,630 16,705 38 Table of Contents 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance Sheet Data (as of December 31) Cash and cash equivalents $ 493,662 $ 148,468 $ 77,716 $ 60,057 $ 84,753 Working capital (c) 609,887 245,445 15,663 161,418 221,486 Total assets 3,387,997 3,166,870 3,303,381 3,555,508 3,372,292 Total debt, including capital lease and other financing obligations 1,889,693 2,300,826 2,511,187 2,562,480 2,272,633 Total shareholders equity 1,007,781 387,158 405,332 566,310 824,609 (a) For fiscal year 2010, selling, general and administrative expense includes $18.9 million recorded as a cumulative catch-up adjustment for previously unrecognized compensation expense associated with the Tranche 2 and 3 option awards under the First Amended and Restated Sensata Technologies Holding B.V. 2006 Management Option Plan and the related modification thereof, and $22.4 million in fees related to the termination of the advisory agreement with the Sponsors at their option. Refer to Note 10, Share-Based Payment Plans and Note 12, Related Party Transactions of our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for additional information. (b) Currency translation gain/(loss) and other, net for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes (losses) / gains of $(23.5) million, $120.1 million and $15.0 million, respectively, recognized on repurchases of Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes, as well as currency translation gains/(losses) associated with the Euro-denominated debt of $72.8 million, $(13.6) million and $53.2 million, respectively. Currency translation gain/(loss) and other, net for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily includes currency translation loss associated with the Euro-denominated debt of $(111.9) million. Currency translation gain/(loss) and other, net in the period from April 27, 2006 (inception) to December 31, 2006 primarily includes currency translation loss associated with Euro-denominated debt and the Deferred Payment Certificates (DPCs) of $(65.5) million. (c) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities. Working capital amounts for 2006 through 2009 have not been recast to include assets designated as held for sale during 2010. 39 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. You should read the following discussion in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, and our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statements in this discussion regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding our future performance, liquidity and capital resources and other non-historical statements in this discussion are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Sensata, a global industrial technology company, is a leader in the development, manufacture and sale of sensors and controls. We produce a wide range of customized, innovative sensors and controls for mission-critical applications such as thermal circuit breakers in aircraft, pressure sensors in automotive systems, and bimetal current and temperature control devices in electric motors. We believe that we are one of the largest suppliers of sensors and controls in the majority of the key applications in which we compete and that we have developed our strong market position due to our long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise, product performance and quality and competitive cost structure. We compete in growing global market segments driven by demand for products that are safe, energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly. In addition, our long-standing position in emerging markets, including our 15-year presence in China, further enhances our growth prospects. We deliver a strong value proposition to our customers by leveraging an innovative portfolio of core technologies and manufacturing at high volumes in low-cost locations such as China, Mexico, Malaysia and the Dominican Republic. History We have a history of innovation dating back to our origins. We operated as a part of Texas Instruments from 1959 until we were acquired as a result of the 2006 Acquisition. Since then, we have expanded our operations in part through the acquisitions of the First Technology Automotive and Special Products (First Technology Automotive) business in December 2006 and Airpax Holdings, Inc. (Airpax) in July 2007. Prior to our IPO in March 2010, we were a direct, 99% owned subsidiary of Sensata Investment Company S.C.A. (SCA), a Luxembourg company, which is owned by investment funds or vehicles advised or managed by Bain Capital Partners, LLC (Bain Capital), its co-investors (Bain Capital and its co-investors are collectively referred to as the Sponsors) and certain members of our senior management. As of December 31, 2010, SCA owns 64.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. We conduct our operations through subsidiary companies, which operate business and product development centers in the United States, the Netherlands and Japan and manufacturing operations in China, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and the United States. Many of these companies are the successors to businesses that have been engaged in the sensing and control business since 1916. Recent Developments On January 28, 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Automotive on Board sensors business of Honeywell International Inc. (Automotive on Board) for approximately $140 million in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment and certain transfer taxes. We will refer to this acquisition as Magnetic Speed and 40 Table of Contents Position (MSP), which will be integrated into our sensors segment. We acquired MSP in order to complement the existing operations of our sensors segment, provide new capabilities in light vehicle speed and position sensing, and expand our presence in emerging markets, particularly in China. MSP manufactures, develops and sells certain sensor products, and has operations in the U.S., South Korea, the Czech Republic and China. This acquisition was structured as a purchase of assets for the operations in the U.S., South Korea and the Czech Republic, and as a purchase of 100% of the outstanding shares of an entity in the Czech Republic and 90% of the outstanding shares of a joint venture in China. We entered into an Equity Transfer Agreement with the owner of the remaining 10% equity interest in the joint venture in China. We expect to own 100% of the joint venture by the end of the first quarter of 2011. Consideration for the purchase of the remaining 10% equity interest in the China joint venture is included in the $140 million purchase price. We incurred approximately $3.2 million of costs during 2010 related to this transaction, which were included within selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Selected Segment Information We manage our sensors and controls businesses separately and report their results of operations as two segments for accounting purposes. Set forth below is selected information for each of these business segments for each of the periods presented. Amounts and percentages in the tables below have been calculated based on unrounded numbers. Accordingly, certain amounts may not add due to the effect of rounding. The following table presents net revenue by segment and segment operating income for the following periods: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Amounts in millions) Net revenue Sensors segment $ 969.6 $ 685.1 $ 867.4 Controls segment 570.5 449.9 555.3 Total $ 1,540.1 $ 1,134.9 $ 1,422.7 Segment operating income Sensors segment $ 327.1 $ 201.3 $ 221.9 Controls segment 193.3 133.9 136.5 Total $ 520.4 $ 335.2 $ 358.3 The following table presents net revenue by segment as a percentage of total net revenue and segment operating income as a percentage of segment net revenue for the following periods: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net revenue Sensors segment 63.0 % 60.4 % 61.0 % Controls segment 37.0 39.6 39.0 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Segment operating income Sensors segment 33.7 % 29.4 % 25.6 % Controls segment 33.9 % 29.8 % 24.6 % 41 Table of Contents For a reconciliation of total segment operating income to profit from operations, refer to Note 18 of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results The following discussion sets forth certain components of our statements of operations as well as factors that impact those components. Net revenue We generate revenue from the sale of sensors and controls products across all major geographic areas. Our net revenue from product sales includes total sales less estimates of returns for product quality reasons and for price allowances. Price allowances include discounts for prompt payment as well as volume-based incentives. Because we sell our products to end-users in a wide range of industries and geographies, demand for our products is generally driven more by the level of general economic activity rather than conditions in one particular industry or geographic region. Our overall net revenue is generally impacted by the following factors: fluctuations in overall economic activity within the geographic markets in which we operate; underlying growth in one or more of our core end-markets, either worldwide or in particular geographies in which we operate; the number of sensors and/or controls used within existing applications, or the development of new applications requiring sensors and/or controls; the mix of products sold, including the proportion of new or upgraded products and their pricing relative to existing products; changes in product sales prices (including quantity discounts, rebates and cash discounts for prompt payment); changes in the level of competition faced by our products, including the launch of new products by competitors; our ability to successfully develop and launch new products and applications; and fluctuations in exchange rates. While the factors described above impact net revenue in each of our operating segments, the impact of these factors on our operating segments can differ, as described below. For more information about risks relating to our business, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. Cost of revenue We manufacture the majority of our products and subcontract only a limited number of products to third parties. As such, our cost of revenue consists principally of the following: Production Materials Costs. We purchase much of the materials used in production on a global lowest-cost basis, but we are still impacted by global and local market conditions. A portion of our production materials contains metals, such as copper, nickel and aluminum, and precious metals, such as gold and silver, and the costs of these materials may vary with underlying metals pricing. We enter into forward contracts to hedge a portion of our exposure to the potential change in prices associated with these commodities. The terms of these contracts fix the price at a future date for various notional amounts associated with these commodities. 42 Table of Contents Employee Costs. These employee costs include the salary costs and benefit charges for employees involved in our manufacturing operations. These costs generally increase on an aggregate basis as sales and production volumes increase, and may decline as a percent of net revenue as a result of economies of scale associated with higher production volumes. We rely heavily on contract workers in certain geographies. Sustaining Engineering Activity costs. These costs relate to modifications of existing products for use by new customers in familiar applications. Other. Our remaining cost of revenue consists of: customer-related development costs; depreciation of fixed assets; freight costs; warehousing expenses; purchasing costs; other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses for energy consumption. The main factors that influence our cost of revenue as a percent of net revenue include: production volumesproduction costs are capitalized in inventory based on normal production volumes. As revenue increases the fixed portion of these costs do not; transfer of production to our lower cost production facilities; the implementation of cost control measures aimed at improving productivity, including reduction of fixed production costs, refinements in inventory management and the coordination of purchasing within each subsidiary and at the business level; product lifecycles, as we typically incur higher cost of revenue associated with manufacturing over-capacity during the initial stages of product launches and when we are phasing out discontinued products; the increase in the carrying value of the inventory that was adjusted to fair value as a result of the application of purchase accounting associated with acquisitions; depreciation expense, including amounts arising from the adjustment of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) to fair value associated with acquisitions; and changes in the price of raw materials, including certain metals. Research and development Research and development (R&D) expenses consist of costs related to direct product design, development and process engineering. The level of R&D expense is related to the number of products in development, the stage of development process, the complexity of the underlying technology, the potential scale of the product upon successful commercialization and the level of our exploratory research. We conduct such activities in areas we believe will accelerate our longer term net revenue growth. Our basic technologies have been developed through a combination of internal development and third-party efforts (often by parties with whom we have joint development relationships). Our development expense is typically associated with: engineering core technology platforms to specific applications; and improving functionality of existing products. 43 Table of Contents Costs related to modifications of existing products for use by new customers in familiar applications is accounted for in cost of revenue and not included in R&D expense. Selling, general and administrative Our SG&A expense consists of all expenditures incurred in connection with the sales and marketing of our products, as well as administrative overhead costs, including: salary and benefit costs for sales personnel and administrative staff, including share-based compensation expense. Expenses relating to our sales personnel generally increase or decrease principally with changes in sales volume due to the need to increase or decrease sales personnel to meet changes in demand. Expenses relating to administrative personnel generally do not increase or decrease directly with changes in sales volume; expense related to the use and maintenance of administrative offices, including depreciation expense; other administrative expense, including expense relating to logistics, information systems and legal and accounting services; general advertising expense; other selling expenses, such as expenses incurred in connection with travel and communications; and transaction costs associated with acquisitions. Changes in SG&A expense as a percent of net revenue have historically been impacted by a number of factors, including: changes in sales volume, as higher volumes enable us to spread the fixed portion of our administrative expense over higher revenue; changes in the mix of products we sell, as some products may require more customer support and sales effort than others; changes in our customer base, as new customers may require different levels of sales and marketing attention; new product launches in existing and new markets, as these launches typically involve a more intense sales activity before they are integrated into customer applications; customer credit issues requiring increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts; and volume and timing of acquisitions. Amortization of intangible assets and capitalized software Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortized on an economic benefit basis according to the useful lives of the assets. Capitalized software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the license. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis unless events or circumstances occur which trigger the need for an earlier impairment review. No impairment charges were required during 2010. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $19.9 million and $13.2 million, respectively, associated with the Interconnection reporting unit. We believe that the global economic crisis, economic conditions within the semiconductor end-market and an increase in the competitive landscape surrounding suppliers to the semiconductor end-market were all factors that led to these impairment charges. 44 Table of Contents Our revenue and earnings forecasts depend on many factors, including our ability to project customer spending, particularly within the semiconductor industry. Changes in the level of spending in the industry and/or by our customers could result in a change to our forecasts, which, in turn, could result in a future impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. See the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis for more discussion of the key assumptions that are used in the determination of fair value of our reporting units. Restructuring Restructuring costs consist of severance, outplacement, other separation benefits, pension settlement and curtailment losses and facilities and other exit costs. Depreciation expense Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) are stated at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. PP&E acquired through the 2006 Acquisition and the acquisitions of the First Technology Automotive and Airpax businesses were stepped-up to fair value on the date of the respective business acquisition resulting in a new cost basis for accounting purposes. The amount of the adjustment to the cost basis of these assets as a result of the 2006 Acquisition, the First Technology Automotive acquisition and the Airpax acquisition totaled $57.8 million, $2.2 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the estimated useful lives of the improvements. Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful lives or the period of the related lease. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense on institutional borrowings, interest rate derivative instruments and capital lease and other financing obligations. Interest expense, net also includes the amortization of deferred financing costs and interest expense on liabilities arising from uncertain tax positions. Currency translation gain and other, net Currency translation gain and other, net includes gains and losses recognized on currency translation, gains and losses recognized on our derivatives used to hedge commodity prices and foreign currency exposures, gains and losses on the disposition of PP&E and gains and losses on the repurchases of debt. We continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue in markets outside of the United States, primarily Europe and Asia. For financial reporting purposes, the functional currency of all our subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. At the date the transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar are adjusted to the U.S. dollar using the current exchange rate with gains or losses recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Provision for income taxes We and our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. While the extent of our future tax liability is uncertain, the impact of purchase accounting for past and future acquisitions, changes to debt and equity capitalization of our subsidiaries and the realignment of the functions performed and risks assumed by the various subsidiaries are among the factors that will determine the future book and taxable income of the respective subsidiary and Sensata as a whole. 45 Table of Contents Loss from discontinued operations In December 2008, we announced our intention to discontinue and sell our Automotive Vision sensing business (Vision business). In connection with this announcement, we reclassified to discontinued operations the results from operations of the Vision business and recognized a loss associated with measuring the net assets of the Vision business at fair value less cost to sell and other exit costs, in accordance with ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment . Effects of Acquisitions and Other Transactions Purchase Agreement On April 27, 2006, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Sensata Technologies B.V. (STBV), completed the 2006 Acquisition, which was effected through a number of its subsidiaries that collectively acquired the assets and assumed the liabilities being transferred. The acquisition structure resulted in significant tax amortization, which has reduced our overall cash tax expense compared to predecessor periods. We also entered into a transition services agreement with Texas Instruments pursuant to which the parties agreed to provide various services to each other in the area of facilities-related services, finance and accounting, human resources, information technology system services, warehousing and logistics and records retention and storage. We ceased relying on these services from Texas Instruments in 2008. The fees for these services were equivalent to the providers cost. Shareholders Equity On March 16, 2010, we completed an IPO of our ordinary shares in which we sold 26,315,789 ordinary shares and our existing shareholders and certain employees sold 5,284,211 ordinary shares at a public offering price of $18.00 per share. The net proceeds to us of the IPO, excluding $2.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, totaled approximately $433.5 million after deducting the underwriters discounts and commissions and offering expenses. On April 12, 2010, we announced that the underwriters of our IPO exercised their option to purchase an additional 4,740,000 ordinary shares from selling shareholders at a price of $18.00 per share, which included 353,465 ordinary shares obtained by certain selling shareholders through the exercise of stock options to purchase ordinary shares. The sale of the additional ordinary shares closed on April 14, 2010. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the additional ordinary shares, other than the proceeds from the exercise of the aforementioned stock options which totaled $2.5 million. On November 17, 2010, we completed a secondary public offering of our ordinary shares in which our existing shareholders and certain employees sold 23,000,000 ordinary shares at a public offering price of $24.10 per share. The net proceeds to us of this secondary public offering were limited to the proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, which totaled $3.7 million. After this offering, SCA owned approximately 64.7% of our ordinary shares. Our authorized share capital consists of 400,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 per share, of which 173,522,647 ordinary shares were issued and 173,510,674 were outstanding as of December 31, 2010. This excludes 399,698 unvested restricted shares. We also have authorized 400,000,000 preference shares with a nominal value of 0.01 per share, none of which are outstanding. At December 31, 2010, there were 317,345 options available for grant under the First Amended and Restated Sensata Technologies Holding B.V. 2006 Management Option Plan and 4,571,500 options available for grant under the Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, we had 10,088,394 ordinary shares available for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options, and 500,000 ordinary shares available for issuance under the Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Purchase Accounting We accounted for the 2006 Acquisition and the acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax using the purchase method of accounting. As a result, the purchase prices for each of these transactions have 46 Table of Contents been allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their respective fair values as of the date of each acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets and liabilities was assigned to goodwill, which is not amortized for accounting purposes, but is subject to testing for impairment at least annually. The application of purchase accounting resulted in an increase in amortization and depreciation expense in the periods subsequent to acquisition relating to our acquired intangible assets and PP&E. In addition to the increase in the carrying value of PP&E, we extended the remaining depreciable lives of PP&E to reflect the estimated remaining useful lives for purposes of calculating periodic depreciation. We also adjusted the value of the inventory to fair value, increasing the costs and expenses recognized upon the sale of this acquired inventory. On January 28, 2011, we completed the acquisition of the Automotive on Board business for approximately $140 million in cash, subject to a working capital adjustment and certain transfer taxes. As of the date of this filing, we have not yet completed our allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Increased Leverage We are a highly-leveraged company and our interest expense increased significantly in the periods following the consummation of the 2006 Acquisition and the acquisitions of First Technology Automotive and Airpax. While it has declined in 2009 and 2010, it is still a significant portion of our results of operations. A portion of our debt has a variable interest rate. We have utilized interest rate swaps, interest rate collars and interest rate caps to hedge the effect of variable interest rates. Refer to Item 7A,