Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) under Item 7 herein. In addition, pursuant to Rule 12b-23 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the information set forth in the first paragraph and under the headings Introduction and Seasonality in the MD&A and the segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Note 17 are incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge on or through the Company's Internet website ( www.dstsystems.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, the Company's corporate governance guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee and Finance Committee of the DST Board of Directors are available in the Investor Center on the Company's Internet website. These guidelines and charters are available in print to any stockholder who requests them. Written requests may be made to the DST Corporate Secretary, 333 West 11th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, and oral requests may be made by calling the DST Corporate Secretary's Office at (816) 435-8655. An individual may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors COMPANY-SPECIFIC TRENDS AND RISKS There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our future business, financial performance or share price. Many of these are beyond our control. A description follows of some of the important factors that could have a material negative impact on our future business, operating and financial results, cash flows, financial condition, prospects or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, reference in this section to we, ours, us or similar terms means the Company, together with its subsidiaries. The level of importance of each of the following trends and risks may vary from time to time, and the trends and risks are not listed in any specific order of importance. These risks, however, are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Trends or events affecting our clients or their industries could decrease the demand for our products and services. We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients in the mutual fund, brokerage, investment management, healthcare, telecommunications, video and utilities, other financial service (i.e. insurance, banking and financial planning) and other industries. Demand for our products and services among companies in those industries could decline for many reasons. If demand for our products decreases or any of the industries we serve decline or fail or consolidate, reducing the number of potential clients, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. Events that adversely affect our clients' businesses, rates of growth or numbers of customers they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process. Events that could adversely affect our clients' businesses include decreased demand for our customers' products and services, adverse conditions in our customers' markets or adverse economic conditions generally. We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential customers will accept our products or services. If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted. The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue regulations impacting third-party distributors of mutual funds, which could adversely affect our business. The SEC may issue regulations under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 or other legislative authority that would require brokers and financial intermediaries that distribute mutual funds to make more detailed fee disclosures at the point-of-sale. Additionally, brokers and financial intermediaries may become subject to new fiduciary standards-of-care that could cause them to alter their methods of distribution. We cannot predict the requirements the SEC may propose and finally adopt. Regulations that would cause current distribution channels or interest in mutual fund investing to change could impact the number of accounts on our systems and other services we provide to our customers and, as a result, could adversely affect our business and our operating results. Additionally, to the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce there capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms could adversely impact our revenues. Our mutual fund clients may decide to allow a broker/dealer who has assisted with the purchase or sale of mutual fund shares to perform subaccounting services. A brokerage firm typically maintains an omnibus account with the fund's transfer agent that represents the aggregate number of shares of a mutual fund owned by the brokerage firm's customers. The omnibus account structure results in fewer mutual fund shareowner accounts on our systems, which adversely affects our revenues. We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform mutual fund shareowner subaccounting. As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis. Brokerage firms that obtain agreements from our mutual fund clients to use an omnibus accounting structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which generally results in lower revenues. 19 Table of Contents The demand for our products and services could decrease if we do not continually address our clients' technology and capacity requirements. Our clients use technology-based products and services in the complex and rapidly changing markets in which they operate. We must substantially invest in technology and systems to meet customer requirements for technology and capacity. If we do not meet clients' technology and capacity requirements in advance of our competitors or if the investments we make are not cost-effective or do not result in successful products or services, our business could be adversely affected. The quality or availability of postal system services could decrease, reducing the volume of printed customer communications and negatively impacting our business. The Company is dependent on postal delivery systems for final delivery of printed customer communications. Postal delivery systems are facing economic pressures from the reduction in first class mail and certain postal delivery systems have experienced work stoppages and other interruptions. Accuracy and speed of delivery are important factors for clients using printed communications in their businesses. Changes in the timeliness and quality of postal delivery could negatively impact the level of printed communications delivered by our customers to their clients. A decrease in such communications could adversely affect our business and our operating results. Decreased demand for traditional printed and mailed communications may adversely affect our business, depending on the extent to which our customers' and their clients' acceptance of electronic alternatives continues to grow. To the extent clients' customers select electronic presentment and delivery of communications, the demand for our services for production and distribution of printed documents could decrease. We provide electronic presentment and delivery solutions, but they are priced differently and require different capabilities than print-mail solutions. Customers may choose to perform electronic hosting and distribution of communications to customers internally or select electronic solution providers other than the Company, which could adversely affect our business and our operating results. Damage to our facilities or declining real estate values could impact our operations or financial condition. We own, lease and manage real estate as part of our business. The performance of our services also depends upon facilities that house central computer operations or operating centers or in which we process information, images, bills or statements. Declining property values in the markets in which we own investment properties may adversely affect our financial condition. Significant damage to any of our operating facilities could interrupt the operations at those facilities and interfere with our ability to serve customers. We may be unable to attract and retain capable technical personnel for our processing businesses or quality executives to manage the complex structure of our business. Our success depends on recruiting and retaining adept management and personnel with expertise in software and systems development and the types of computer hardware and software we utilize. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified personnel, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Companies in our industry compete fiercely for qualified management and technical personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately compete for or keep qualified personnel. If we lack qualified management, there is an increased risk that the Company will adopt unfavorable business strategies, especially in a complex business like ours with multiple segments and operating entities. If we lack qualified technical personnel, our ability to develop the systems and services our clients demand may also be negatively affected. Our businesses are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to intense competition from other established service providers in all industries we serve. Some of our competitors are able to bundle service offerings and offer more appealing pricing structures. Some of our clients, or the clients they serve, may develop, have developed or are developing the in-house capacity to perform the transaction processing, recordkeeping and output services they have paid us to perform. Additionally, some of our competitors and clients have greater financial and human resources and access to capital than we do. Our failure to successfully compete in any of our material operating businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Competition could also affect the revenue mix of services we provide, resulting in decreased revenues in lines of business with higher profit margins. 20 Table of Contents We and our unconsolidated affiliates are subject to government regulation. Any regulatory violations, changes or uncertainties could adversely affect our business. A number of our businesses are subject to U.S. or foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, reporting and related regulations. Such regulations cover all aspects of our businesses including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker/dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, net capital, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Any violation of applicable regulations could expose us or those businesses to civil or criminal liability, significant fines or sanctions or damage our reputation, the revocation of the licenses, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, which could adversely affect our business or our financial results. Governmental changes and uncertainties surrounding services we provide could increase our costs of business or diminish business, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our clients are subject to government regulation that could affect our business. Our clients are subject to extensive government regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to services we provide to the financial services industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry. Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide services to such industries. Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations. We operate internationally and are thus exposed to foreign political, economic and other conditions that could adversely affect our revenues from or support by foreign operations. Revenues from our subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and elsewhere outside the U.S. are an important element of our revenues. Inherent risks in our international business activities could decrease our international sales and have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. These risks include potentially unfavorable foreign economic conditions, political conditions or national priorities, foreign government regulation, potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments, the failure to bridge cultural differences, and limited or prohibited access to our foreign operations and the support they provide. We may also have difficulty repatriating profits or be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations in our international business. Various events may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter or year to year. The nature of these events might inhibit our ability to anticipate and act in advance to counter them. We may be unsuccessful in determining or controlling when and whether events occur that could cause varying financial results. Unfavorable results may occur that we did not anticipate or take advance action to address. The various reasons our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate include unanticipated economic conditions, and costs for starting up significant client operations, for hiring staff, and for developing products. Our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of supplies, timing of license fees, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our products and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new products or services. Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on those investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments. As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds. Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances. Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues. The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss. Any such loss would have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our revenues could decrease if client contracts are terminated or fail to renew or if clients renegotiate contracts or utilize our services at lower than anticipated levels. We derive most of our revenue by selling products and services under long-term contracts, many of which contain terms and conditions based on anticipated levels of utilization of our services. We cannot unilaterally extend the terms of our client contracts when they expire. Contracts can terminate during the term of agreement for various reasons, including through termination for convenience clauses in some contracts that enable clients to cancel by written notice. Our revenues could decrease as a result of terminations or non-renewals of client contracts; extensions of client contracts under, or contract re-negotiations resulting in, less favorable terms; or utilization of services at less than anticipated levels. Our businesses expose us to risks of claims and losses that could be significant and damage our reputation and business prospects. Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs. The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services. In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a client's instructions or meet specifications. Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients' agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties. We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform. We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement. Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue. Litigation could include class action claims based, among other theories, upon various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action. Any of these claims and related settlements or judgments could affect our operating results, damage our reputation, decrease demand for our services, or cause us to make costly operating changes. We are substantially dependent on our intellectual property rights, and a claim for infringement or a requirement to indemnify a client for infringement could adversely affect us. We have made substantial investments in software and other intellectual property on which our business is highly dependent. We rely on patent, trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and security measures to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot guarantee these measures will be effective. Our products and services rely on technology developed by others, including open source software, and we have no control over possible infringement of someone else's intellectual property rights by the provider of this technology. The owner of the rights could seek damages from us rather than or in addition to the persons who provide the technology to us. We could be subject at any time to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to evaluate and defend. Our clients may also face infringement claims, allege that such claims relate to our products and services, and seek indemnification from us. Any loss of our intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights, or any significant claim of infringement or indemnity for violation of the intellectual property rights of others, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Failure to protect our confidential information and that of our clients, their customers, and our employees could hurt our business. We electronically maintain sensitive intellectual property, proprietary information and personally identifiable information, including financial and personal health information, of our clients, their customers and our employees. In certain circumstances, vendors have access to such information in order to assist us with responsibilities such as, producing benefit plan identification cards, maintaining software we license on our own behalf or resell to others, or helping clients comply with anti-money laundering regulations. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers' or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues or litigation. We maintain systems and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to electronic information and cybersecurity attacks, and we generally impose security requirements on our vendors, but we cannot guarantee these systems, procedures or requirements will always protect us. Rapid advances in technology may prevent us from anticipating all potential security threats or promptly identifying all security breaches, and the limits and costs of technology, skills and manpower could prevent us from adequately addressing these threats. We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership. We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses. Despite owning significant equity interests in those companies and having directors on their boards, we do not control their operations, strategies or financial decisions. The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own. Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results. Some of our joint venture investments are subject to buy-sell agreements, which may, among other things, restrict us from selling our interests even if we were to determine it is prudent to do so. We own interests in unconsolidated entities including Boston Financial Data Services, International Financial Data Services Limited Partnership, International Financial Data Services Limited, and various real estate joint ventures. Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which may restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it is prudent to do so. These arrangements may also allow us to purchase the other owners' interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so. The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time. We hold equity investments in companies that operate in various industries, and the value of those investments could decrease. We hold significant investments in available-for-sale equity securities of other companies or other financial interests that are subject to fluctuations in market prices. A significant decline in the value of our equity investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We may not always be able to sell those investments at higher prices than we paid for them or than the value of the consideration used to acquire them. We hold significant investments in illiquid private equity funds. We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments. These investments are illiquid. Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted. Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the securities. Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so. 23 Table of Contents Various plans, agreements, laws and organizational documents may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain plans and agreements, and applicable laws could make it more difficult for a party to make a tender offer for our shares or complete a takeover, which is not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions include: super-majority stockholder approval required for certain actions staggered terms for directors specific procedures for stockholders to nominate new directors the Board's authority to issue and set the terms of preferred stock a stockholders' rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors various rights of joint venture co-owners, lenders and certain customers and executives in the event of a change in control public reporting of ownership and of changes in ownership by stockholders with at least a 5% interest in us legal restrictions on business combinations with certain stockholders Because of contractual commitments, a change in control could affect our operating results and weaken our management retention and incentive tools. A change in control of the Company would trigger various rights and obligations in service agreements with our customers and in agreements governing our joint ventures. A change in control could also allow some clients to terminate their agreements with us or to obtain rights to use our processing software. We are parties to joint venture agreements that allow other co-owners to buy our equity interests if we undergo a change in control. Under certain executive equity-based and other incentive compensation awards, benefit programs and employment agreements with our management, a change in control by itself, or an individual's termination of employment without cause or resignation for good reason (each as defined in applicable agreements) after a change in control could accelerate funding, payment or vesting of equity grants, as applicable, under such agreements and programs. This accelerated funding, vesting or payment may decrease an employee's incentive to continue employment with us. Certain executive officers have agreements with us that require us to continue to employ them for three years after a change in control or to pay certain amounts if we terminate their employment without cause or they resign for good reason following a change in control. The executives might not be incented to achieve desired results for the new owners of our business, and the cost of keeping the executives on the payroll might deter potential new owners from acquiring us or hinder new owners from hiring replacement management. Certain changes in ownership of the Company could potentially affect the continuation of investment advisory and distribution services provided by ALPS subsidiaries, which could potentially limit the Company's share repurchases and negatively impact the Company's financial results. The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, ALPS Holdings, Inc., has subsidiaries that serve as investment advisors or distributors for certain registered investment companies (Funds). If more than 25% of the Company's outstanding voting securities were to become held by a single owner, a change of control of the ALPS subsidiaries constituting an assignment of their investment advisory contracts and distribution contracts could be deemed to have occurred. Any deemed assignment would automatically terminate the ALPS subsidiaries' investment advisory and distribution contracts with the Funds, and the Funds would be required to seek shareowner approval of new investment advisory contracts in order to continue an advisory relationship with the ALPS subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that any Fund with a distribution contract would retain the ALPS subsidiary as its distributor or that any Fund with an investment advisory contract would obtain the required shareowner vote to retain, or that it would retain, the ALPS subsidiary as its investment advisor. The potential impact of a deemed assignment may limit the Company's ability to repurchase its shares. The loss by ALPS subsidiaries of investment advisory and/or distribution contracts could negatively impact the operating results of the Company. Our equity incentive and stockholders' rights plans could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Our directors, officers and certain managers have received restricted stock units and options to purchase our common stock as part of their compensation. These equity grants could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock (as determined pursuant to the rights plan) without the approval of our Board of Directors. A triggering of the rights plan could in some circumstances be dilutive in value to common stockholders who do not exercise their rights. 24 Table of Contents We may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future . Future cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. If we cannot successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our growth may be limited and our financial condition adversely affected. Our business strategy anticipates that we will supplement internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses. We may be unable to identify suitable businesses to acquire. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other complementary businesses. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Information we obtain about an acquisition target may be limited and there can be no assurance that an acquisition will perform as expected or positively impact our financial performance. Potential acquisitions involve risk, including the risk we would be unable to effectively integrate the acquired technologies, operations and personnel into our business, and the risk that management's attention and our capital would be diverted from other areas of our business. If our new investments and business initiatives are not successful, our financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. We are investing heavily in our products for the brokerage and retirement industries. Our investments may not lead to successful deployment of our new products and increases in the level of volumes of certain businesses. If we are not successful in creating value from our investments, the lack of new product sales could have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and prospects. We have restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. If we do not comply with these restrictive covenants, our failure could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary investments, asset dispositions, and restricted payments (including stock repurchases and cash dividends), and require us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in reduced liquidity for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties The following table provides certain summary information with respect to the principal properties owned or leased by the Company. The Company believes the facilities, office space and other properties owned or leased are adequate for its current operations. Location Use (1) Owned/ Leased (2) Square Feet Financial Services Segment (3) Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 483,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 334,000 Kansas City, MO Data Center Owned 162,000 St. Louis, MO Data Center Owned 109,000 Jefferson City, MO Office Space Leased 28,000 Denver, CO Office Space Leased 76,000 Hyderabad, India Office Space Leased 111,000 Pune, India Office Space Leased 52,000 Bangkok, Thailand Office Space Leased 88,000 Melbourne, Australia Office Space Leased 42,000 London, United Kingdom Office Space Owned 31,000 Thirteen other locations Office Space Leased 64,000 Healthcare Services Segment (3) Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 158,000 Harrisburg, PA Office Space Leased 209,000 Birmingham, AL Office Space Leased 98,000 Two other locations Office Space Leased 18,000 Customer Communications Segment (3) El Dorado Hills, CA Production Owned 580,000 Kansas City, MO Production Owned 307,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 66,000 Hartford, CT Production Owned 302,000 Albany, NY Production Leased 136,000 Weymouth, MA Production Leased 75,000 Bristol, United Kingdom Production Owned 126,000 Dagenham, United Kingdom Production Leased 175,000 Nottingham, United Kingdom Production Leased 138,000 Jarrow, United Kingdom Production Leased 100,000 Peterborough, United Kingdom Production Leased 50,000 Toronto, Canada Production Owned 232,000 Ottawa, Canada Production Leased 13,000 Six other locations Office Space Leased 30,000 Investments and Other Segment (4) Kansas City, MO Office Space Owned 572,000 Kansas City, MO Retail Owned 31,000 Kansas City, MO Office Space Leased 4,000 El Dorado Hills, CA Office Space Owned 48,000 London, United Kingdom Office Space Owned 24,000 London, United Kingdom Retail Owned 9,000 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) Property specified as being used for production includes space used for manufacturing operations and warehouse space. 26 Table of Contents (2) In addition, but not included in the above table, the Company owns a number of surface parking facilities, and an underground storage facility with 538,000 square feet located in Kansas City, Missouri; and owns approximately 200 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to its buildings in El Dorado Hills, California. (3) Includes approximately 2.1 million square feet of property owned or leased by the Company's real estate subsidiaries, which are part of the Investments and Other Segment. These properties are primarily leased to other segments of the Company, including approximately 900,000 square feet in the Financial Services Segment and 1.2 million square feet in the Customer Communications Segment. The Healthcare Services Segment has sub-leased 65,000 square feet of office space to third-parties. The Customer Communications Segment has sub-leased 84,000 square feet of office and production space to third-parties. (4) The Company, through its real estate subsidiaries, leases office and production space to various third-party tenants in Kansas City, Missouri, and the U.K. The number of square footage leased to third-parties in office and retail facilities is 403,000 , plus approximately 497,000 in square footage leased to third parties at the underground storage facility. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of their businesses. While the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes, after consultation with legal counsel, that the final outcome in such proceedings, in the aggregate, would not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. Executive Officers of the Company Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled for May 13, 2014. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. Certain of the executive officers have employment agreements with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected as an officer, except with respect to the executive officers who have entered into employment agreements, which agreements designate the position or positions to be held by the executive officer. None of the executive officers are related to one another or to any of the members of the Board of Directors. Stephen C. Hooley , age 50, is the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President. He became Chief Executive Officer on September 12, 2012. He joined the Company in mid-2009 as President and Chief Operating Officer. He served from 2004 through mid-2009 as President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston Financial Data Services (BFDS). He served from 2009 through April 2013 as non-executive Chairman of BFDS. From 2007 through March 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer of IFDS, L.P. Jonathan J. Boehm , age 53, re-joined the Company in 1997 after prior service in the early 1980s. He became an Executive Vice President during 2009. Prior to his current position, he served as Group Vice PresidentMutual Funds Full Service. He is responsible for our Healthcare Services Segment, including DST HealthCare Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries DST Health Solutions and Argus Health Systems. Robert L. Tritt , age 58, joined the Company in 1977. He became Executive Vice President of DST's U.S. Investment Recordkeeping Solutions business in 2009. Prior to this position, he served since 1989 as Group Vice President with responsibility for product development and customer relationships for remote processing mutual fund customers. Mr. Tritt will be leaving the Company on March 31, 2014. He has been responsible for the development and operations of the Company's proprietary applications supporting recordkeeping for mutual funds and alternative investments, and for both ASP (Remote) and Full Service customer operations using such applications. Edmund J. Burke , age 53, is the President of ALPS Holdings, Inc., which became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company during 2011. He joined ALPS in 1991 and has served as President since 2000. As part of his responsibilities for the ALPS group of companies, Mr. Burke is President and Trustee of Clough Global Allocation Fund, Clough Global Equity Fund and Clough Global Opportunities Fund; Trustee of Liberty All-Star Equity Fund; Director of Liberty All-Star Growth Fund, Inc., and Chairman of the Board and President of Financial Investors Trust. Each of these funds operates as a registered investment company pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940. 27 Table of Contents Simon N. Hudson-Lund, age 52, joined the Company beginning February 21, 2013 as Chief Executive Officer of DST International Holdings, which owns DST Global Solutions Limited, Bluedoor, DST Process Solutions Limited and DST Output Limited, and as the Global Executive Chairman of IFDS, U.K. and IFDS, L.P. He has served in numerous positions with IFDS U.K., including as Chief Executive Officer (February 2008 through January 2013), Head of European Transfer Agent Operations (January 2011 through January 2013), Chief Operating Officer (July 2005 through January 2008), and Managing Director Administration Services-Client Finance and Transfer Agent Operations (June 2003 through June 2005). In March 2013, he became Chief Executive Officer of IFDS, L.P. Steven J. Towle , age 56, has served since 2004 as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's U.S. Customer Communications business. Prior to joining the Company, he was BFDS's President and Chief Operating Officer during 2000 through 2003 and its Senior Vice President during 1997 through September 2000. Gregg Wm. Givens , age 53, became the Company's Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 2014. He joined the Company in 1996 as an officer and has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from 1999 through 2013. Vercie Lark , age 51, joined the Company as Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2010. He is responsible for the Company's global information technology infrastructure and architecture functions, global information privacy and security, and global information technology sourcing. Mr. Lark previously served since July 2009 as Vice President and Chief Information Officer of CenturyLink, Inc., a provider of voice, broadband and video services. He had served since 2008 as the Chief Information Officer of Embarq Corporation, which was acquired in 2009 by CenturyLink. M. Elizabeth Sweetman , age 50, joined the Company in June 2013 as Vice President Global Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, she had served since 2007 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for Furniture Brands International, a home furnishings designer and manufacturer that, following her departure from that company, filed for bankruptcy in September 2013. Randall D. Young , age 57, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in mid-2013. Since 2002, he had served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He joined the Company as a Vice President in 1995. 28 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company's common stock trades under the symbol DST on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As of February 19, 2014 , there were approximately 28,000 beneficial owners of the Company's common stock. In 2010, the Company began paying cash dividends on its common stock. Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by DST's Board of Directors. Payment of dividends is subject to applicable laws and to restrictions in applicable debt agreements. The Board of Directors of DST unanimously determined to increase its dividend frequency from a semi-annual basis to a quarterly basis beginning in the first quarter of 2013. On January 29, 2014, the DST Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share on DST's common stock. The dividend will be payable on March 14, 2014, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2014. Dividend High Low 2013 1st Quarter $ 0.30 $ 70.42 $ 60.75 2nd Quarter 0.30 70.88 63.80 3rd Quarter 0.30 76.56 65.80 4th Quarter 0.30 91.04 74.70 2012 1st Quarter $ 0.40 $ 54.76 $ 45.67 2nd Quarter 55.63 49.37 3rd Quarter 56.25 49.76 4th Quarter 0.40 62.33 54.44 The prices set forth above do not include commissions and do not necessarily represent actual transactions. The closing price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 2013 was $90.74 . Stock Repurchases The following table sets forth information with respect to shares of Company common stock purchased by the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 . Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total $ Amount of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Amount That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 - October 31 345,021 (1) $ 78.09 $ 26,939,726 $ 43,775,964 November 1 - November 30 300,063 (1) 86.47 25,941,952 17,834,012 December 1 - December 31 208,171 (1) 88.07 17,834,012 Total 853,255 $ 83.47 $ 70,715,690 $ (2) _______________________________________________________________________ (1) For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , the Company purchased, in accordance with the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (formerly the 1995 Stock Option and Performance Award Plan), 5,732 shares of its common stock for participant income tax withholding in conjunction with stock option exercises or from the vesting of restricted stock shares, as requested by the participants or from shares surrendered in satisfaction of option exercise price. These purchases were not made under the publicly-announced repurchase plans or programs, but were allowed by the rules of the Compensation Committee of the DST Board of Directors. Of these shares, 21 shares were purchased in October 2013 , 63 shares were purchased in November 2013 , and 5,648 shares were purchased in December 2013 . (2) On January 29, 2014, the DST Board of Directors authorized a new $250.0 million share repurchase plan. The plan allows, but does not require, the repurchase of common stock in open market and private transactions. The Company may enter into one or more plans with its brokers or banks for pre-authorized purchases within defined limits pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 to affect all or a portion of such share repurchases. 29 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing. The following graph shows the changes in value since December 31, 2008 of an assumed investment of $100 in: (i) DST Common Stock; (ii) the stocks that comprise the S&P 400 MidCap index(1); and (iii) the stocks that comprise a peer group of companies (Peer Group)(2). The table following the graph shows the dollar value of those investments as of December 31, 2013 and as of December 31 for each of the five preceding years. The value for the assumed investments depicted on the graph and in the table has been calculated assuming that cash dividends, if any, are reinvested at the end of each quarter in which they are paid. Comparison of Cumulative Five Year Total Return As of December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 DST Systems, Inc $ 100.00 $ 114.67 $ 118.43 $ 123.22 $ 166.40 $ 253.28 S&P MidCap 400 Index 100.00 137.38 173.98 170.96 201.53 269.04 Peer Group 100.00 123.83 138.48 151.96 179.66 271.59 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) Standard & Poor's Corporation, an independent company, prepares the S&P 400 MidCap Index. (2) The companies included in the Peer Group are Alliance Data Systems Corp, Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., Convergys Corp, CSG Systems International, Inc., Fiserv, Inc., NCR Corp, Paychex, Inc., SEI Investments Co., TeleTech Holdings, Inc. and Total System Services, Inc. Also included in the Peer Group data for earlier years of the five year period are the following companies: Affiliated Computer Services Inc. (included through 2009 as it was acquired by Xerox in February 2010), IMS Health Inc. (included through 2009 as it went private in February 2010). DST selected the Peer Group based on comparable company information for DST's industry developed by an independent compensation consultant with the input of the CFO. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with and are qualified by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company's audited consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon and the other financial information included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2013 (1) 2012 (2) 2011 (3) 2010 (4) 2009 (5) Income Statement Data: (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pockets) $ 1,960.6 $ 1,892.4 $ 1,744.0 $ 1,713.6 $ 1,595.4 Income from operations 313.2 157.3 260.1 344.6 274.3 Other income, net 243.2 373.5 38.7 141.7 85.1 Income before income taxes and non-controlling interest 544.9 519.5 274.0 476.6 354.5 Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. 352.6 324.0 183.1 318.5 241.6 Basic earnings per share 8.15 7.22 4.01 6.78 4.87 Diluted earnings per share 8.00 7.08 3.95 6.73 4.84 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (6) 4.57 3.98 4.09 4.43 3.59 Cash dividends per share of common stock 1.20 0.80 0.70 0.60 December 31, 2013 (1) 2012 (2) 2011 (3) 2010 (4) 2009 (5) Balance Sheet Data: (dollars in millions) Total assets $ 3,090.5 $ 3,392.5 $ 3,428.6 $ 3,339.4 $ 2,912.8 Total debt 683.0 1,011.6 1,380.3 1,209.4 1,221.9 _______________________________________________________________________ (1) In 2013, the Company recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $222.8 million, which were included in other income, net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. (2) In 2012, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $60.8 million associated with its U.K. Customer Communications business and recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $293.7 million and dividend income from a private company investment of $48.4 million, both of which are included in other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (3) In 2011, the Company acquired the following businesses: ALPS Holdings, Inc., Newkirk Products, Inc., Lateral Group Limited, Intellisource Healthcare Solutions, Finix Business Strategies, LLC, Finix Converge, LLC and Subserveo, Inc. Additionally, the Company recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $17.2 million, which is included in other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (4) In 2010, the Company recognized $73.4 million of contract termination payment operating revenues resulting from the early termination of two client processing agreements. The Company recorded $70.8 million of net gains on securities and other investments and dividend income from a private equity investment of $54.7 million, both of which are included in other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (5) In 2009, the Company recognized a $41.7 million gain associated with the purchase of the remaining 50% equity interest of Argus on March 31, 2009. The Company recorded net gains on securities and other investments of $17.2 million, which were included in other income, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. (6) Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the impact of certain items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or are non-operational items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. A reconciliation of diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is included below. In addition, a description of the items removed from net income for the three years ended December 31, 2013 is included in Item 7, Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information. 31 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Reported Diluted Earnings per Share to non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 8.00 $ 7.08 $ 3.95 $ 6.73 $ 4.84 Net gains on securities and other investments (3.14 ) (4.54 ) (0.23 ) (1.76 ) (0.21 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates items (0.10 ) (0.20 ) 0.06 (0.05 ) Employee termination expenses 0.09 0.29 0.08 0.27 Contract termination payments received, net (0.08 ) (0.03 ) (0.87 ) Loss accruals 0.06 0.04 0.08 Leased facility abandonment costs (gains) (0.06 ) 0.22 Net losses on real estate assets 0.04 0.09 Goodwill impairment 1.33 Insurance Solutions asset impairment and other costs 0.11 Charitable contribution of securities (0.06 ) Business development/advisory expenses 0.02 0.06 Restructuring cost to amend sales/marketing agreements 0.10 Loss (gain) on repurchase of convertible debentures 0.02 0.09 (0.02 ) Gain on acquisition of business (Argus) (0.85 ) Income tax items (0.24 ) (0.40 ) (0.03 ) (0.12 ) Non-GAAP Diluted Earnings per Share $ 4.57 $ 3.98 $ 4.09 $ 4.43 $ 3.59 32 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company's management, as of the date of this Annual Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other writings, including, but not limited to, in press releases, in the Annual Report and in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, (i) all statements, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future or that depend on future events, or (ii) statements about our future business plans and strategy and other statements that describe the Company's outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals, and any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Whenever used, words such as may, will, would, should, potential, strategy, anticipates, estimates, expects, project, predict, intends, plans, believes, targets and other terms of similar meaning are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are uncertain and to some extent unpredictable, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in, or reasonably inferred from, such forward-looking statements. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company's actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. Introduction DST Systems, Inc. (the Company or DST) provides sophisticated information processing and servicing solutions to companies around the world. Through its global enterprise, DST delivers strategically unified business processing, data management solutions, and customer communications to the asset management, brokerage, retirement, insurance, and healthcare markets. In addition to its technology products and services, DST's data centers provide technology infrastructure support for companies worldwide. The Company presents these businesses as three operating segments: Financial Services, Healthcare Services and Customer Communications. Investments in the Company's real estate subsidiaries and affiliates, equity securities, private equity investments and certain financial interests have been aggregated into an Investments and Other Segment. A summary of each of the Company's segments follows. The Financial Services Segment provides a variety of services to the asset management, brokerage, retirement and insurance industries and is the largest provider of third-party shareowner recordkeeping services to the mutual fund industry. The Company has developed a number of proprietary systems that are integrated into its solutions including: Shareowner recordkeeping and distribution support systems for United States (U.S.) and international mutual fund companies, broker/dealers and financial advisors; A defined-contribution participant recordkeeping system for the U.S. retirement plan market; Investment management systems offered to U.S. and international investment managers and fund accountants; and Business process management and customer contact system offered to a broad variety of industries. The Financial Services Segment's revenues are derived primarily from remote or full service transfer agency or third party administration product offerings that utilize the Company's proprietary software applications being processed at the Company's data centers. The Financial Services Segment's revenues are generally based on the number of accounts, members, participants or transactions processed. Additionally, through the ALPS business, the Company derives revenue from asset servicing and asset distribution activities, which are generally based on a percentage of assets for which services are provided. The Company also derives revenues from transfer agency asset balances invested and investment earnings related to customer cash balances maintained in Company investment accounts. The Company licenses its business process management software, certain investment management and wealth management shareowner accounting systems. Revenues for licensed software products are primarily comprised of: (i) license fees; (ii) consulting and development revenues based primarily on time and materials billings; and (iii) annual maintenance fees. The license fee component of these revenues is not significant. The Company provides data processing services to certain clients who utilize the Company's AWD products. Revenues are primarily based upon data center capacity utilized, which is significantly influenced by the volume of transactions or the number of users. The 33 Table of Contents Financial Services Segment records investment income (dividends, interest and net gains (losses) on investment securities) within Other income, net. The Financial Services Segment derives part of its income from its pro-rata share in the earnings (losses) of certain unconsolidated affiliates, including BFDS, IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P. The Company has formed operating joint ventures to enter into or expand its presence in target markets. To further penetrate the mutual fund market, in 1974 the Company formed BFDS, a 50% owned joint venture with State Street, a leading mutual fund custodian. The Company's international mutual fund/unit trust shareowner processing businesses (IFDS U.K. and IFDS L.P., collectively, IFDS) are also owned 50% by the Company and 50% by State Street. The Company receives revenues for processing services and products provided under various agreements with unconsolidated affiliates. The Company believes that the terms of its contracts with unconsolidated affiliates are fair to the Company and are no less favorable to the Company than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. The Company's operating revenues derived from unconsolidated affiliates is $170.5 million , $171.5 million , and $188.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. The Healthcare Services Segment provides a variety of servicing solutions to U.S healthcare organizations that, collectively, help meet the industry's information processing, quality of care and cost management needs while achieving compliance and improving operational efficiencies of each business. The Company has proprietary systems integrated into the solutions that include medical and pharmacy claims administration processing systems and services offered to providers of healthcare plans, third-party administrators, medical practice groups and pharmacy benefit managers. Prior to June 2013, DST's Healthcare Services businesses were reported as part of the Financial Services Segment. Prior accounting periods have been revised to reflect the new segment presentation. The Healthcare Services' revenues are derived from pharmacy claims processing services and from investment earnings related to client balances maintained. The Company also recognizes revenue earned on a per-member, per month basis for BPO services and ASP agreements and from licenses of its healthcare administration processing systems software. The Customer Communications Segment helps businesses deploy customer communications while improving operational performance across critical business functions such as sales, marketing, customer service, technology, finance, operations, and compliance. By delivering information in the desired combination of print, digital and archival formats, the Segment helps its clients deliver better customer experiences at each point of interaction. The Segment's product offering combines data insights and analysis with business decision-making tools and multi-channel execution and delivery designed to help businesses acquire, grow, retain, and win back customers. The Customer Communications' revenues are derived from presentation and delivery (either printed or digital) and archival of customer documents, and are based generally on the number of images processed and the range of customization and personalization options chosen by the client. Formatting and custom programming revenues are based on time and materials billings or on the number of images produced. The Investments and Other Segment is comprised of the Company's real estate subsidiaries and joint ventures, investments in equity securities, private equity investments and other financial interests. The assets held by the Segment are primarily passive in nature. The Company utilizes real estate joint ventures as a means of capturing potential appreciation and economic development tax incentives of leased properties. The Investments and Other Segment's revenues are derived from rental income from Company-owned and third party real estate leases. Rental income from Company-owned real estate is recorded as revenue when earned, which is based on lease terms, but is eliminated in consolidation for the portion that relates to real estate leased to the Company's other consolidated subsidiaries. The Investments and Other Segment records investment income (dividends, interest and net gains (losses) on investment securities) within Other income, net. The Investments and Other Segment derives part of its income from its pro rata share in the earnings (losses) of certain unconsolidated affiliates. The Company pays lease payments to certain real estate joint ventures. Seasonality Generally, the Company does not have significant seasonal fluctuations in its business operations. Processing and Customer Communications volumes for mutual fund customers are usually highest during the quarter ended March 31 due primarily to processing year-end transactions and printing and mailing of year-end statements and tax forms during January. The Company has historically added operating equipment in the last half of the year in preparation for processing year-end transactions, which has the effect of increasing costs for the second half of the year. Revenues and operating results from individual license sales depend heavily on the timing and size of the contract. 34 Table of Contents New Authoritative Accounting Guidance In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an accounting standard update, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. This standard requires netting of unrecognized tax benefits against a deferred tax asset for a loss or other carryforward that would apply in settlement of the uncertain tax positions. This standard is effective prospectively for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard but does not expect it to materially impact the consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2013, DST adopted new authoritative accounting guidance that modifies the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The standard requires an entity to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective line items in the consolidated statement of income if the amount being reclassified is required to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference to other required disclosures that provide additional detail about those amounts. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for enhanced disclosures provided as a result of the new standard. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company's discussion and analysis of its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements: revenue recognition; software capitalization and amortization; depreciation of fixed assets; valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill; accounting for investments; and accounting for income taxes. Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and it is earned. The majority of the Company's revenues are computer processing and services revenues and are recognized upon completion of the services provided. Software license fees, maintenance fees and other ancillary fees are recognized as services are provided or delivered and all customer obligations have been met. The Company generally does not have customer obligations that extend beyond one year. Revenue from equipment sales is recognized as equipment is shipped. Revenue from operating leases is recognized monthly as the rent accrues. Billing for services in advance of performance is recorded as deferred revenue. Allowances for billing adjustments and doubtful account expense are estimated as revenues are recognized and are recorded as reductions in revenues, and the annual amounts are immaterial to the Company's consolidated financial statements. The Company recognizes revenue when the following criteria are met: 1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; 2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable; and 4) collectability is reasonably assured. If there is a customer acceptance provision in a contract or if there is uncertainty about customer acceptance, the associated revenue is deferred until the Company has evidence of customer acceptance. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables (items) can be divided into more than one unit of accounting. An item can generally be considered a separate unit of accounting if both of the following criteria are met: 1) the delivered item(s) has value to the customer on a standalone basis and 2) if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the Company. Once separate units of accounting are determined, the arrangement 35 Table of Contents consideration should be allocated at the inception of the arrangement to all deliverables using the relative selling price method. Relative selling price is obtained from sources such as vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE), which is based on the separate selling price for that or a similar item or from third-party evidence (TPE) such as how competitors have priced similar items. If such evidence is unavailable, the Company uses its best estimate of the selling price (BESP), which includes various internal factors such as our pricing strategy and market factors. It is not common for the Company to use TPE and BESP as VSOE can be established for the majority of DST's client arrangements. Software license revenues are recognized at the time the contract is signed, the software is delivered and no future software obligations exist. Deferral of software license revenue results from delayed payment provisions, disproportionate discounts between the license and other services or the inability to unbundle certain services. The Company recognizes revenues for maintenance services ratably over the contract term, after collectability has been reasonably assured. The Company derives over 90% of its revenues as a result of providing processing and services under contracts. The majority of the amount is billed on a monthly basis generally with thirty-day collection terms. Revenues are recognized for monthly processing and services upon performance of the services. In the event a portion of the Company's revenues are due 12 months or more from the invoice date, the Company accounts for the revenue as not being fixed or determinable. In these cases, the revenue is recognized as it becomes due. The Company's standard business practice is to bill monthly for development, consulting and training services on a time and materials basis. In some cases the Company bills a fixed fee for development and consulting services. For fixed fee arrangements, the Company recognizes revenue on a proportionate performance basis. The Company derives less than 10% of its revenues from licensing products. The Company licenses its asset management products, AWD products, healthcare administration processing software solutions and customer billing software solution products. Perpetual software license revenues are recognized at the time the contract is signed, the software is delivered and no future software obligations exist. Deferral of software license revenue billed results from delayed payment provisions, disproportionate discounts between the license and other services or the inability to unbundle certain services. Term software license revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement. While license fee revenues are not a significant percentage of DST's total operations, they can significantly impact earnings in the period in which they are recognized. Revenues from individual license sales depend heavily on the timing, size and nature of the contract. The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary ALPS, may enter into arrangements with broker/dealers or other third parties to sell or market closed-end fund shares. Depending on the arrangement, ALPS may earn distribution fees for marketing and selling the underlying fund shares. Conversely, ALPS may incur distribution expenses, including structuring fees, finders' fees and referral fees paid to unaffiliated broker/dealers or introducing parties for marketing and selling underlying fund shares of a closed-end fund sponsored by ALPS. While distribution revenues and expenses are not significant percentages of DST's operating revenues or costs and expenses, they can significantly impact operations and earnings in the period in which they are recognized. The Company has entered into various agreements with related parties, principally unconsolidated affiliates, to utilize the Company's data processing facilities and computer software systems. The Company believes that the terms of its contracts with related parties are fair to the Company and are no less favorable than those obtained from unaffiliated parties. The Company assesses collection based on a variety of factors, including past collection history with the customer and the credit-worthiness of the customer. The Company generally does not request collateral from its customers. If it is determined that collection of revenues is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred and is recognized at the time it becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. Allowances for billing adjustments are determined as revenues are recognized and are recorded as reductions in revenues. Doubtful account expense for the Company is immaterial. Software capitalization and amortization The Company makes substantial investments in software to enhance the functionality and facilitate the delivery of its processing and services as well as its sale of licensed products. Purchased software is recorded at cost and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic lives of three to five years. The Company also develops a large portion of its software internally. The Company capitalizes software development costs for computer software developed or obtained for internal use after the design has been approved and management is committed to funding the project. For computer software to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed to third parties, the Company capitalizes research and development costs after technological feasibility has been established and management is committed to funding the project. The capitalized software development costs are generally amortized on a straight-line basis, based on an estimated economic life, which is dependent on the nature of the project. The Company has assigned lives of three to five years for capitalized software development. 36 Table of Contents Significant management judgment is required in determining what projects and costs associated with software development will be capitalized and in assigning estimated economic lives to the completed projects. Management specifically analyzes software development projects and analyzes the percentage of completion as compared to the initial plan and subsequent forecasts, milestones achieved and the commitment to continue funding the projects. Significant changes in any of these items may result in discontinuing capitalization of development costs, as well as immediately expensing previously capitalized costs. The Company reviews, on a quarterly basis, its capitalized software for possible impairment. Depreciation of fixed assets The Company's approach on personal property, specifically data processing, printing and inserting equipment, is to own the property as opposed to leasing it where practicable. The Company believes this approach provides it better flexibility for disposing or redeploying the asset as it nears the completion of its economic life. The Company depreciates data processing equipment using accelerated depreciation methods over the following lives: (1) non-mainframe equipmentthree years; (2) mainframe central processing unitfour years; and (3) mainframe direct access storage devices and tape devicesfive years. The Company depreciates furniture and fixtures over estimated useful lives, principally three to five years, using accelerated depreciation methods. The Company depreciates large printing and inserting equipment used by the Customer Communications Segment over a five to seven year life using accelerated depreciation methods. The Company depreciates leasehold improvements using the straight-line method over the lesser of the term of the lease or life of the improvements. Management judgment is required in assigning economic lives to fixed assets. Management specifically analyzes fixed asset additions, remaining net book values and gain/loss upon disposition of fixed assets to determine the appropriateness of assigned economic lives. Significant changes in any of these items may result in changes in the economic life assigned and the resulting depreciation expense. Valuation of long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill The Company and its unconsolidated affiliates do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives. The Company assesses the impairment of goodwill at least annually (as of October 1) and assesses identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and related assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that are considered important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of the Company's use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When it is determined that the carrying value of intangibles, long-lived assets or goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of impairment, the Company assesses actual impairment based on gross cash flows. The Company's assessment of goodwill for impairment includes comparing the fair value to the net book value of our reporting units. The Company estimates fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow models and market approaches. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, goodwill is not impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company performs a second test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. To measure the amount of any impairment loss, the Company determines the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the affected reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, the Company allocates the fair value of the affected reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. The Company's 2013 annual goodwill impairment test determined that the estimated fair value of each of the Company's reporting units substantially exceeds its carrying value. Accounting for investments The Company has three significant types of investments: 1) investments in available-for-sale securities, the largest of which is its investment in State Street common stock; 2) investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is comprised principally of BFDS, IFDS U.K., IFDS L.P. and certain real estate joint ventures; and 3) investments in private equity funds and other investments accounted for under the cost method. The Company accounts for investments in entities in which it owns less than 20% and does not have significant influence, in accordance with authoritative guidance related to accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities, which requires the Company to designate its investments as trading or available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and recorded net of deferred taxes directly to accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders' equity. 37 Table of Contents The Company records an investment impairment charge for an investment with a gross unrealized holding loss resulting from a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investment's current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on the Company's financial position. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in entities in which the Company or its subsidiaries have at least a 20% voting interest and significant influence but do not control, and for all investments in partnerships and similar interests (including investments in private equity funds where the Company is a limited partner) which the Company has at least 5% ownership and does not control. The Company classifies these investments as unconsolidated affiliates. Under the equity method, the Company recognizes income or losses from its pro-rata share of these unconsolidated affiliates' net income or loss, which changes the carrying value of the investment of the unconsolidated affiliate. In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of the Company's investment and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate. The cost method of accounting is used for these investments when the Company has a de-minimus ownership percentage and no ability to exercise significant influence. The Company's cost method investments are held at the lower of cost or market. Accounting for income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with authoritative accounting guidance. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entity's financial statements or tax returns. Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof). In addition, the Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, the Company recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on its estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes may be required. If the Company ultimately determines that payment of these amounts is unnecessary, then it reverses the liability and recognizes a tax benefit during the period in which it determines that the liability is no longer necessary. The Company also recognizes tax benefits to the extent that it is more likely than not that its positions will be sustained if challenged by the taxing authorities. To the extent the Company prevails in matters for which liabilities have been established, or is required to pay amounts in excess of its liabilities, the Company's effective tax rate in a given period may be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require cash payments and may result in an increase in the Company's effective tax rate in the year of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in its effective tax rate in the year of resolution. The Company reports interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions as income taxes. 38 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the Company's operating results (millions, except per share amounts): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Revenues Operating revenues Financial Services $ 1,004.3 $ 978.6 $ 899.2 Healthcare Services 333.3 300.6 270.8 Customer Communications 660.5 650.0 609.8 Investments and Other 57.2 58.9 56.3 Elimination Adjustments (94.7 ) (95.7 ) (92.1 ) 1,960.6 1,892.4 1,744.0 % change from prior year 3.6 % 8.5 % 1.8 % Out-of-pocket reimbursements Financial Services 44.4 49.7 36.8 Healthcare Services 6.2 5.1 5.3 Customer Communications 654.7 636.7 607.0 Investments and Other 0.1 0.3 1.6 Elimination Adjustments (7.4 ) (7.6 ) (6.0 ) 698.0 684.2 644.7 % change from prior year 2.0 % 6.1 % 4.8 % Total revenues $ 2,658.6 $ 2,576.6 $ 2,388.7 % change from prior year 3.2 % 7.9 % 2.6 % Income from operations Financial Services $ 210.8 $ 177.0 $ 221.9 Healthcare Services 49.7 32.1 16.0 Customer Communications 51.0 (35.6 ) 21.2 Investments and Other 9.8 (8.3 ) 8.9 Elimination Adjustments (8.1 ) (7.9 ) (7.9 ) 313.2 157.3 260.1 Interest expense (34.5 ) (43.5 ) (46.5 ) Other income, net 243.2 373.5 38.7 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 23.0 32.2 21.7 Income before income taxes and non-controlling interest 544.9 519.5 274.0 Income taxes 192.3 195.5 95.8 Net income 352.6 324.0 178.2 Net loss attributable to non-controlling interest 4.9 Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc . $ 352.6 $ 324.0 $ 183.1 Basic earnings per share $ 8.15 $ 7.22 $ 4.01 Diluted earnings per share 8.00 7.08 3.95 Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 4.57 3.98 4.09 Cash dividends per share of common stock 1.20 0.80 0.70 39 Table of Contents Consolidated revenues Consolidated total revenues (including out-of-pocket (OOP) reimbursements) increased $82.0 million or 3.2% during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012 and increased $187.9 million or 7.9% during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to December 31, 2011 . Consolidated operating revenues increased $68.2 million or 3.6% in 2013 as compared to 2012 and increased $148.4 million or 8.5% in 2012 as compared to 2011 . The Company experienced operating revenue growth from all three of its operating Segments in both 2013 and 2012. Financial Services Segment operating revenues increase d during 2013 , as compared to 2012, primarily attributable to increased operating revenues from ALPS, DST Brokerage Solutions, DST Bluedoor, and DST Retirement Solutions, for which the latter included a $6.0 million client termination payment received in first quarter 2013. These revenue increases were partially offset by lower operating revenues for mutual fund shareowner processing resulting from lower registered accounts serviced and lower software license revenue in the Financial Services Segment. Healthcare Services Segment operating revenue increased 10.9% during 2013 from higher pharmacy claims paid as well as growth from existing and new clients on the DST Health Solutions' processing platform. Customer Communications operating revenue increased during 2013 primarily from new client volumes in North America. The operating revenue growth in 2012 as compared to 2011 was partially driven by higher Financial Services Segment operating revenues during 2012 , from the inclusion of a full year of ALPS operations (acquired on October 31, 2011) in 2012 versus two months in 2011 , partially offset by lower operating revenues for mutual fund shareowner processing resulting from lower registered accounts serviced. The increase in Healthcare Services Segment operating revenues in 2012 was primarily the result of higher pharmacy claims paid. The increase in Customer Communications Segment operating revenue in 2012 was the result of a full year of operations from the 2011 acquisitions of Lateral in the U.K. (acquired on August 2, 2011) and Newkirk (acquired on May 2, 2011) in North America, as well as new client volumes in North America, offset by decreased demand and lower revenues per package in the U.K. Consolidated OOP reimbursements increased $13.8 million or 2.0% in 2013 as compared to 2012 and increased $39.5 million or 6.1% in 2012 as compared to 2011 . The net increase in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2013 is attributable to higher volumes from new clients in our Customer Communications Segment, partially offset by a decrease in the Financial Services Segment attributable to lower registered accounts serviced. The net increase in consolidated OOP reimbursements in 2012 was attributable to higher volumes from new clients and a full year of volumes from Lateral and Newkirk in the Customer Communications Segment and an increase in the Financial Services Segment from the inclusion of a full year of ALPS operations. Income from operations Consolidated income from operations increased $155.9 million or 99.1% to $313.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 and decreased $102.8 million or 39.5% to $157.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 . The increase in 2013 is primarily attributable to the 2012 goodwill impairment in the Customer Communications - U.K. reporting unit and other charges described below that did not recur in 2013 as well as the $6.0 million 2013 contract termination payment received. Absent these 2012 and 2013 non-recurring items, consolidated income from operations increased $40.0 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 due to increased operating revenues coupled with cost containment activities. The decrease in consolidated income from operations in 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily the result of the following items that occurred during 2012: non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $60.8 million, $11.0 million of leased facility abandonment costs, net losses of $7.1 million on real estate assets, $11.0 million of costs associated with a charitable donation of appreciated marketable securities, increased employee termination costs of $10.9 million and $9.1 million of costs associated with the discontinuation of the insurance processing solution for the insurance market. Additionally, $7.3 million of restructuring costs were incurred in 2011 to amend a sales / marketing agreement from an acquired business, which did not recur in 2012. Interest expense Interest expense was $34.5 million , $43.5 million and $46.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Interest expense decreased 20.7% during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from lower weighted average debt balances outstanding, as well as lower weighted average interest rates. Interest expense decreased during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily from lower weighted average debt balances outstanding. 40 Table of Contents Other income, net The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net realized gains from the disposition of available-for-sale securities $ 193.0 148.1 $ 21.8 Net gains (losses) on private equity funds and other investments 31.2 9.3 (0.8 ) Gain on sale of private company investment 138.7 Private company investment dividend 48.4 Dividend income 13.1 18.2 16.5 Interest income 3.6 4.1 4.2 Miscellaneous items 2.3 6.7 (3.0 ) Other income, net $ 243.2 $ 373.5 $ 38.7 Included in the $193.0 million of net realized gains from the disposition of available for sale securities during 2013 is a $130.3 million gain from the sale of approximately 2.3 million shares of State Street Corporation. The 2012 net realized gains of $148.1 million includes gains of $53.6 million from the sale of Computershare Ltd. shares, $38.0 million from the disposition of State Street Corporation shares and $31.3 million from the sale of Euronet Worldwide shares. The Company recorded a net gain on private equity funds and other investments of $31.2 million and $9.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and recorded a net loss of $0.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 . During 2013 , the Company received distributions from certain of its private equity fund investments resulting in realized gains. The Company recorded $0.6 million , $8.3 million and $1.7 million of net impairments on private equity funds and other investments related to adverse market conditions and poor performance of the underlying investments during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of underlying investments could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments that may not be reflected in an investment's current carrying value, thereby possibly requiring an impairment charge in the future, which could have a material effect on the Company's financial position. The Company recorded a gain of $138.7 million on the sale of a portion of its investment in a privately-held company during the year ended December 31, 2012 . The Company also received cash dividends of $48.4 million from a private company investment during the year ended December 31, 2012 . The Company receives dividend income from certain investments held. Dividends from State Street common stock were $8.4 million , $9.6 million and $7.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. State Street Corporation quarterly dividend per common share was $0.18 per share in 2011 , and then increased to $0.24 per share in 2012 , and had a further increase to $0.26 per share in 2013 . Interest income was $3.6 million , $4.1 million and $4.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2013 and 2012 , as compared to 2011 is attributable to lower amounts of cash and short-term investments and lower weighted-average interest rates on invested amounts. Miscellaneous items include unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities designated as trading securities, unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency translation, impairment charges for available-for-sale securities, amortization of deferred non-operating gains and other non-operating items. Miscellaneous items resulted in income of $2.3 million and $6.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and a loss of $3.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 . Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates, is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Boston Financial Data Services, Inc. $ 8.2 $ 10.2 $ 9.9 International Financial Data Services (U.K. and L.P.) 9.7 21.9 15.7 Other unconsolidated affiliates 5.1 0.1 (3.9 ) Total $ 23.0 $ 32.2 $ 21.7 41 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2013 , DST's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased $9.2 million as compared to 2012 . During 2012, IFDS Canada sold a real estate partnership which resulted in a gain of $14.8 million (DST's share). Excluding this gain on real estate in 2012, equity in earnings increased $5.6 million in 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2012 , DST's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $10.5 million as compared to 2011 , primarily attributable to the IFDS gain from the sale of a real estate partnership, partially offset by lower IFDS earnings. DST's equity in earnings of BFDS decreased $2.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The decrease is primarily from lower revenues associated with reduced levels of accounts serviced and lower interest income, partially offset by the recognition of a deferred gain from the 2013 sale of an investment in Cofunds, Ltd. of $1.1 million . DST's equity in earnings of BFDS increased $0.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 . Declines in BFDS operating revenues during 2012 as compared to 2011 from lower accounts serviced were more than offset by lower operating expenses. DST's equity in earnings of IFDS decreased $12.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to 2012 primarily attributable to the gain on IFDS Canada's sale of a real estate partnership in 2012, partially offset by the recognition of a $6.3 million gain (DST's share) on IFDS U.K.'s sale of an equity method investment in Cofunds, Ltd. in 2013. The remaining decline is primarily due to continued costs associated with the establishment of new service offerings, which include the development and build-out of a wealth management platform for the U.K. marketplace utilizing DST's Bluedoor technology, partially offset by higher revenues from increased accounts serviced. DST's equity in earnings of IFDS increased $6.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to 2011 , primarily from IFDS Canada's gain on the sale of its interest in a Canadian real estate partnership and revenue from new clients, partially offset by costs for new product development initiatives and client conversion activities. IFDS has had two significant client developments within their U.K. operations. During late 2013, IFDS U.K. signed a new client, which provides wealth management solutions for financial advisers, to a long-term contract. Additionally, in January 2014, IFDS signed a long-term contract with an existing client under which IFDS U.K. will provide expanded services including conversions of additional books of business to IFDS U.K.'s processing platforms. The services to be provided under these two agreements will incorporate DST's Bluedoor wealth management platform which is being developed for the U.K. market. Conversions of the clients' various books of business are expected to be completed from 2014 through 2016. The contracts for these new arrangements provide for reimbursement of certain system development and conversion costs. The expenses for the conversion activities will be recognized as incurred, however the revenue under these contracts will only be recognized when various contractual milestones are met. IFDS Canada also signed a new client during the fourth quarter 2013 which is expected to convert approximately 650,000 new accounts by the end of first quarter 2014. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 21.8 million at December 31, 2013, an increase of 1.1 million accounts or 5.3% as compared to December 31, 2012. The increase is primarily due to new client conversions in 2013. IFDS shareowner accounts serviced were 20.7 million at December 31, 2012, an increase of 2.5 million accounts or 13.7% as compared to December 31, 2011. DST's equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $5.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $5.0 million as compared to 2012 . DST's other unconsolidated affiliates recorded $4.1 million of real estate impairments in 2012. DST's equity in earnings of other unconsolidated affiliates was $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 , an increase of $4.0 million as compared to 2011 , primarily from improved performance at DST's real estate and other affiliates during the year ended December 31, 2012 . Additional condensed financial information of DST's significant operating unconsolidated affiliates, BFDS and IFDS, is presented below (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Total revenues $ 912.7 $ 862.1 $ 854.7 Costs and expenses 855.1 795.7 760.8 Depreciation and amortization 30.4 27.5 24.6 Income from operations 27.2 38.9 69.3 Non-operating income 23.1 48.0 7.1 Income before income taxes 50.3 86.9 76.4 Income taxes 14.7 22.6 25.6 Net income $ 35.6 $ 64.3 $ 50.8 42 Table of Contents Income taxes The Company's effective tax rate was 35.3% , 37.6% and 35.0% for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The Company's income tax rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by the completion of the IRS examination of previously filed federal income tax refund claims for Domestic Manufacturing Deductions under Internal Revenue Code Section 199 and research and experimentation credits for the periods 2006 through 2009. As a result, the Company recognized income tax benefits of $16.1 million in 2013. The income tax benefit for the research and experimentation credits relates to the resolved claim years and certain post-audit periods that are still subject to examination. The income tax benefit for the Domestic Manufacturing Deductions relates only to the resolved claim years. The 2013 effective tax rate also includes a tax expense of $7.5 million relating to an increase in the overall incremental U.S. tax expected to be imposed upon the repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings previously considered permanently reinvested. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company assessed the forecasted cash needs and overall financial position of its foreign subsidiaries and determined that a portion of previously permanently reinvested earnings would no longer be reinvested overseas. The Company's income tax rate for 2012 includes benefits from the favorable IRS resolution of certain research and experimentation credits and domestic manufacturing deduction of $18.3 million and the charitable contribution of appreciated securities of approximately $5.0 million, partially offset by lower tax credits (foreign tax credits and rehabilitation credits), higher domestic income and increased losses in international subsidiaries for which no current tax benefits exists. The Company's income tax rate for 2011 included benefits from federal rehabilitation and solar panel tax credits, partially offset by increased tax resulting from repatriation of certain international earnings. The tax rates in each of the three years ended December 31, 2013 were affected by tax benefits relating to certain international operations and recognition of state tax benefits associated with income apportionment rules. Excluding the effect of discrete period items, the Company expects its tax rate to be approximately 37% in 2014 . The 2014 tax rate can be affected as a result of variances among the estimates and amounts of 2014 sources of taxable income (e.g., domestic consolidated, joint venture and/or international), the realization of tax credits (e.g., historic rehabilitation, research and experimentation and state incentive), adjustments which may arise from the resolution of tax matters under review and the Company's assessment of its liability for uncertain tax positions. On September 12, 2013, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service released final regulations that provide guidance on the deductibility of amounts paid to acquire, produce, or improve tangible property and recovery of basis upon disposition. These regulations also provide rules applicable to materials and supplies. The Company has completed a preliminary evaluation of the potential impact of these regulations and does not expect them to materially affect the consolidated financial statements. Comprehensive income The Company's comprehensive income totaled $404.0 million , $303.0 million and $109.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Comprehensive income consists of net income of $352.6 million , $324.0 million and $183.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, and other comprehensive income of $51.4 million in 2013 and other comprehensive losses of $21.0 million and $73.5 million in 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Other comprehensive income (loss) consists of unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges, the Company's proportional share of unconsolidated affiliates other comprehensive income (loss), and foreign currency translation adjustments. The principal difference between net income and comprehensive income is the net change in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities. 43 Table of Contents YEAR TO YEAR BUSINESS SEGMENT COMPARISONS FINANCIAL SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Financial Services Segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating revenues $ 1,004.3 $ 978.6 $ 899.2 Out-of-pocket reimbursements 44.4 49.7 36.8 Total revenues 1,048.7 1,028.3 936.0 Costs and expenses 772.8 777.0 657.2 Depreciation and amortization 65.1 74.3 56.9 Income from operations $ 210.8 $ 177.0 $ 221.9 Operating margin 21.0 % 18.1 % 24.7 % The following table summarizes the Financial Services Segment's statistical results (in millions, except as noted): December 31, 2013 2012 2011 U.S. mutual fund shareowner accounts processed: Registered Accounts - non tax-advantaged 30.6 34.3 42.4 IRA mutual fund accounts 23.0 23.5 24.3 Other retirement accounts 8.3 8.5 8.9 Section 529 and Educational IRAs 9.3 9.4 9.5 Registered accounts - tax-advantaged 40.6 41.4 42.7 Total registered accounts 71.2 75.7 85.1 Subaccounts 25.7 12.4 14.6 Total 96.9 88.1 99.7 International mutual fund shareowner accounts processed: IFDS U.K. 10.2 9.4 8.1 IFDS L.P. (Canada) 11.6 11.3 10.1 Total 21.8 20.7 18.2 Defined contribution participant accounts (1) 6.9 6.1 5.1 ALPS (in billions of U.S. dollars) : Assets Under Management 11.8 8.3 4.9 Assets Under Administration 147.7 101.9 93.6 Automatic Work Distributor workstations (in thousands) 209.7 207.6 204.3 (1) Defined contribution participants include: 1) participants with account balances; 2) new employees in the process of becoming eligible to participate; 3) employees that have met plan eligibility requirements, but do not have account balances; and 4) terminated employees who are still treated as plan participants for purposes of annual plan compliance tests (such as participant discrimination tests) and for tax reporting purposes. Reporting periods prior to 2013 have been adjusted to conform to the current period reporting presentation. 44 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Changes in Registered Accounts: Beginning balance 75.7 85.1 99.4 New client conversions 0.4 0.5 0.8 Subaccounting conversions to DST platforms (1.6 ) (2.8 ) (1.0 ) Subaccounting conversions to non-DST platforms (3.5 ) (6.3 ) (13.4 ) Conversions to non-DST platforms (0.2 ) (0.9 ) (1.5 ) Organic growth 0.4 0.1 0.8 Ending balance 71.2 75.7 85.1 Changes in Subaccounts: Beginning balance 12.4 14.6 14.3 New client conversions 5.7 0.1 Conversions from non-DST registered platforms 1.5 0.3 0.8 Conversions from DST's registered accounts 1.6 2.8 1.0 Conversions to non-DST platforms (6.1 ) (3.3 ) Organic growth 4.5 0.7 1.8 Ending balance 25.7 12.4 14.6 Changes in Defined contribution participant accounts: Beginning balance 6.1 5.1 5.2 New client conversions 1.3 0.9 Client losses (0.1 ) Organic growth (decline) (0.5 ) 0.2 (0.1 ) Ending balance 6.9 6.1 5.1 Revenues Financial Services Segment total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 of $1,048.7 million reflects an increase of $20.4 million or 2.0% as compared to 2012 . Financial Services Segment operating revenues of $1,004.3 million reflects an increase of $25.7 million or 2.6% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . Financial Services Segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $44.4 million , a decrease of $5.3 million as compared to 2012 . U.S. Financial Services operating revenues increased $26.9 million or 3.2% to $859.5 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 . International Financial Services operating revenues decreased $1.2 million or 0.8% to $144.8 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013 is primarily attributable to increased operating revenues at ALPS, DST Brokerage Solutions, DST Retirement Solutions, and DST Bluedoor, partially offset by lower operating revenues from DST's U.S. registered shareowner account processing and lower software license revenues. Operating revenues also decreased from changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. The increased revenue at ALPS was due to organic growth at existing clients, favorable market conditions and revenues from new clients during 2013. Approximately three-fourths of ALPS revenues are calculated based upon a percentage of the assets within the funds that it services and are therefore subject to fluctuation based on the amount of assets managed or distributed. DST Brokerage Solutions had increased revenues from conversions of new clients and organic growth from existing clients while DST Bluedoor's increased revenues were primarily from higher software license sales and professional services revenue associated with the expansion into the U.K. market. DST Retirement Solutions operating revenues during 2013 increased as compared to 2012 primarily from higher defined contribution participants processed as new clients were converted, partially offset by reductions in participants serviced due to the annual removal of prior year terminated participants. Operating revenues were also favorably impacted by a $6.0 million contract termination payment received from partial termination of a DST Retirement client during 2013. 45 Table of Contents Operating revenues from DST Global Solutions and DST's business process and document management businesses, including AWD, decreased during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from lower software license revenues and professional services. DST Global Solutions had a perpetual software license sale and associated professional service revenue in 2012 that did not recur in 2013. Financial Services operating revenues include approximately $38.1 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 , a decrease of $5.0 million as compared to 2012 . DST also experienced decreased revenue from DST's U.S. registered shareowner account processing due to lower registered accounts primarily as a result of subaccounting conversions. Registered accounts serviced at December 31, 2013 decreased 4.5 million or 5.9% from December 31, 2012 . During 2013, approximately 5.1 million registered accounts converted to subaccounting platforms of which 1.6 million converted to DST's platform. For 2014, DST currently projects total conversions of registered accounts to subaccounts will approximate 4-5 million. The 2014 estimated conversions to subaccounting include conversions of tax-advantaged registered accounts. DST has been informed that certain broker/dealers may convert certain tax-advantaged accounts to a subaccounting platform, however, the timing and number of accounts is not currently known. The number of accounts estimated to convert from various DST platforms is based upon information obtained from clients. There are a number of factors that will affect the actual amount of conversions and the timing of those conversions. In 2012 , Financial Services Segment total revenues of $1,028.3 million increased $92.3 million or 9.9% as compared to 2011 . Financial Services Segment operating revenues of $978.6 million increased $79.4 million or 8.8% in 2012 as compared to 2011 . U.S. Financial Services operating revenues increased $64.4 million or 8.4% to $832.6 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 . International Financial Services operating revenues increased $15.0 million or 11.5% to $146.0 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 . The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012 is primarily attributable to $81.8 million of incremental revenue from a full year of ALPS in 2012 as compared to two months in 2011 . DST Global Solutions revenues also increased during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily attributable to increased software licenses sales and support. Increases in operating revenues from DST Brokerage during 2012 were offset by lower operating revenues for mutual fund registered shareowner account servicing. Registered accounts serviced at December 31, 2012 decreased 9.4 million accounts or 11.0% from December 31, 2011 . Costs and expenses Financial Services Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $772.8 million , a decrease of $4.2 million as compared to 2012 . Costs and expenses in the Financial Services Segment are primarily comprised of compensation and benefit costs, but also include technology related expenditures and reimbursable operating expenses. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $44.4 million in 2013 , a decrease of $5.3 million as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $728.4 million for 2013 , an increase of $1.1 million as compared to 2012 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2013 is primarily from higher costs to support the increased revenues, increased deferred compensation plan costs of $5.8 million (the effect of which is offset as unrealized gains on trading securities in other income) and $2.8 million incurred for the launch of a new closed-end fund at ALPS, offset by lower employee termination expenses and lower costs as a result of exiting the insurance processing solutions business in 2012. Costs and expenses also decreased from changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies. Financial Services Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $777.0 million , an increase of $119.8 million as compared to 2011 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $49.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 , an increase of $12.9 million as compared to 2011 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $727.3 million for 2012 , an increase $106.9 million or 17.2% as compared to 2011 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2012 is primarily from the inclusion of a full year of ALPS and other 2011 business acquisitions, increased employee compensation and benefit costs, incremental new product development costs at DST Brokerage and DST Retirement, increased employee termination expenses and higher deferred compensation plan costs (which is offset in other income), partially offset by the 2011 restructuring costs to amend a sales / marketing agreement of an acquired business which did not recur in 2012 . Depreciation and amortization Financial Services Segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $65.1 million , a decrease of $9.2 million or 12.4% as compared to 2012 . The decrease in 2013 is primarily the result of a $5.8 million asset impairment charge incurred in 2012 which did not recur in 2013 and lower capitalized software costs. 46 Table of Contents Financial Services Segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $74.3 million , an increase of $17.4 million or 30.6% as compared to 2011 . The increase in 2012 is primarily the result of $8.0 million of higher amortization expense from intangible assets resulting from a full year of amortization during 2012 from the businesses acquired in 2011 and $5.8 million of asset impairment charges associated with ceasing the development of an insurance processing solution. Income from operations Financial Services Segment income from operations for 2013 was $210.8 million , an increase of $33.8 million or 19.1% as compared to 2012 . The increase in Financial Services income from operations is from higher operating revenues including the receipt of a $6.0 million partial contract termination payment, partially offset by increased deferred compensation plan costs and ALPS fund launch expenses during 2013. The increase is also the result of employee termination costs and other costs in 2012 that did not recur in 2013. Financial Services Segment income from operations for 2012 was $177.0 million , a decrease of $44.9 million or 20.2% as compared to 2011 . The decrease in Financial Services income from operations is from lower contributions from mutual fund shareowner account processing, higher costs associated with new business initiatives (retirement and brokerage), higher employee termination costs, increased intangible asset amortization expense from 2011 acquisitions, higher employee compensation plan costs associated with higher earnings in 2012, partially offset by contributions from the inclusion of ALPS for a full year. HEALTHCARE SERVICES SEGMENT The following table presents the financial results of the Healthcare Services Segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating revenues $ 333.3 $ 300.6 $ 270.8 Out-of-pocket reimbursements 6.2 5.1 5.3 Total revenues 339.5 305.7 276.1 Costs and expenses 270.5 255.9 240.5 Depreciation and amortization 19.3 17.7 19.6 Income from operations $ 49.7 $ 32.1 $ 16.0 Operating margin 14.9 % 10.7 % 5.9 % The following tables summarizes the Healthcare Services Segment's statistical results (in millions): December 31, 2013 2012 2011 DST Health Solutions covered lives 23.5 23.3 22.6 Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Argus pharmacy paid claims 444.0 400.7 362.0 Revenues Healthcare Services Segment total revenues of $339.5 million reflect an increase of $33.8 million or 11.1% in 2013 as compared to 2012 . Healthcare Services Segment operating revenues of $333.3 million reflect an increase of $32.7 million or 10.9% in 2013 compared to 2012 . Healthcare Services Segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $6.2 million , an increase of $1.1 million or 21.6% as compared to 2012 . The increase in operating revenue during the year ended December 31, 2013 is primarily attributable to a 10.8% increase in pharmacy claims paid associated with increased Medicare and Medicaid members and higher pharmacy discount card services. The increase in Medicare Part D members is primarily the result of more eligible members as more individuals are reaching age 65 than in the past. Membership is also positively impacted as individuals are generally living longer and the government is offering tax incentives for companies to promote participation in healthcare plans. Operating revenues also increased as a result of organic growth at existing clients and new full service clients that successfully converted to DST's medical claims processing platform 47 Table of Contents during 2013. Operating revenues include approximately $7.6 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $1.8 million as compared to 2012 , principally from new healthcare exchange software licenses sold in 2013. In 2012 , Healthcare Services Segment total revenues of $305.7 million increased $29.6 million or 10.7% as compared to 2011 . Healthcare Services Segment operating revenues of $300.6 million increased $29.8 million or 11.0% as compared to 2011. Healthcare Services Segment OOP reimbursement revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $5.1 million , a decrease of $0.2 million or 3.8% as compared to 2011. The increase in operating revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012 is primarily attributable to higher pharmacy claims processed from the conversion of new Medicare Part D business and and a full year of revenue from IntelliSource Healthcare Solutions (acquired July 1, 2011). Operating revenues include approximately $5.8 million of software license fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 , an increase of $1.6 million as compared to 2011 . During 2013, the Company was notified by two Healthcare Services Segment clients of their intent to terminate their processing agreements when their contracts expire. These two clients, in aggregate, represent 25.4% of the pharmacy claims paid in 2013. One of the client's contract terminated on December 31, 2013 and the other client will be transitioning off DST's system throughout 2014 with no significant revenue loss expected until 2015. Costs and expenses Healthcare Services Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $270.5 million , an increase of $14.6 million as compared to 2012 . Costs and expenses are primarily comprised of compensation and benefits costs but also include technology related expenditures. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $6.2 million in 2013 , an increase of $1.1 million as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $264.3 million for 2013 , an increase of $13.5 million as compared to 2012 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2013 is primarily from increased personnel costs to support higher volumes of revenue and higher costs associated with new business initiatives, partially offset by lower employee termination costs. The increase is also due to a $2.5 million loss accrual recorded during 2013 related to a regulatory inquiry into the processing of certain pharmacy claims from 2006 to 2009. Healthcare Services Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $255.9 million , an increase of $15.4 million as compared to 2011 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $5.1 million in 2012 , a decrease of $0.2 million as compared to 2011 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses were $250.8 million for 2012 , an increase of $15.6 million as compared to 2011 . On this basis, the increase in costs and expenses during 2012 is primarily from higher employee costs to support the increased volume of revenue, partially offset by a loss accrual for a regulatory inquiry recorded in 2011 that did not recur in 2012. Depreciation and amortization Healthcare Services Segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $19.3 million , an increase of $1.6 million or 9.0% as compared to 2012 . The increase in 2013 is primarily the result of higher internally developed capitalized software. Healthcare Services Segment depreciation and amortization costs for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $17.7 million , a decrease of $1.9 million or 9.7% as compared to 2011 . The decrease in 2012 is primarily the result of lower intangible asset amortization as certain assets became fully amortized during 2011 . Income from operations Healthcare Services Segment income from operations for 2013 was $49.7 million , an increase of $17.6 million or 54.8% as compared to 2012 . The increase in Healthcare Services income from operations is from higher pharmacy claims paid associated with increased Medicare and Medicaid members and higher medical claim processing revenues from new and existing clients partially offset by increased personnel costs to support the higher volumes of revenue. Healthcare Services Segment income from operations for 2012 was $32.1 million , an increase of $16.1 million or 100.6% as compared to 2011 . The increase in Healthcare Services income from operations is from higher operating revenues in 2012 and a $3.5 million loss accrual in 2011 that did not recur. 48 Table of Contents CUSTOMER COMMUNICATIONS SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Customer Communications Segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating revenues $ 660.5 $ 650.0 $ 609.8 Out-of-pocket reimbursements 654.7 636.7 607.0 Total revenues 1,315.2 1,286.7 1,216.8 Costs and expenses 1,220.2 1,214.9 1,148.9 Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) 44.0 107.4 46.7 Income (loss) from operations $ 51.0 $ (35.6 ) $ 21.2 Operating margin 7.7 % (5.5 )% 3.5 % Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating Revenue Operating Income Operating Revenue Operating Income (Loss) Operating Revenue Operating Income (Loss) North America $ 470.7 $ 48.2 $ 455.2 $ 43.5 $ 430.3 $ 37.8 United Kingdom 189.8 2.8 194.8 (79.1 ) 179.5 (16.6 ) Customer Communications Segment $ 660.5 $ 51.0 $ 650.0 $ (35.6 ) $ 609.8 $ 21.2 The following table summarizes the Customer Communications Segment's statistical results (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Customer Communications Images Produced: North America 9,448.0 9,444.4 9,042.8 United Kingdom 1,999.5 2,163.1 2,029.5 Total 11,447.5 11,607.5 11,072.3 Customer Communications Packages Mailed: North America 2,206.6 2,185.4 1,999.5 United Kingdom 724.4 752.4 733.5 Total 2,931.0 2,937.8 2,733.0 Revenues Customer Communications Segment total revenues were $1,315.2 million and $1,286.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Operating revenues increased $10.5 million or 1.6% to $660.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase is primarily attributable to revenues from new clients, partially offset by lower volumes from existing clients and client losses. The organic declines from the Company's existing clients is due to a number of factors including client efforts to migrate to electronic presentment and to suppress sheets per statement or to send less frequent statements. Customer Communications Segment total revenues were $1,286.7 million and $1,216.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Operating revenues increased $40.2 million or 6.6% to $650.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 . The increase is attributable to the acquisitions of Lateral Group Limited (Lateral) in August 2011 and Newkirk Products Inc. (Newkirk) in May 2011 as well as new clients in North America, partially offset by lower revenue per package in the U.K. Customer Communications' North America operating revenues increased $15.5 million or 3.4% to $470.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 . The increase is primarily attributable to new client volumes. Customer 49 Table of Contents Communications' North America operating revenues increased $24.9 million or 5.8% to $455.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 . The increase in operating revenues was primarily attributable to revenues from new clients and a full year of revenues from Newkirk in 2012 as compared to eight months in 2011, partially offset by lower volumes from existing clients. In 2013 , Customer Communications' U.K. operating revenues decreased $5.0 million as a result lower images produced and from changes in the mix of clients serviced due to client losses from the closure of certain operating plants and foreign exchange movement. Customer Communications' U.K. operating revenues increased $15.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 from the Lateral acquisition, partially offset by lower revenues per package. Customer Communications Segment OOP reimbursements revenue increased $18.0 million or 2.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012 and increased $29.7 million or 4.9% in 2012 as compared to 2011 . The net increase in 2013 was primarily attributable to new client volumes. The net increase in 2012 was primarily attributable to higher volumes from new clients and volumes from Lateral and Newkirk acquisitions. During 2013, the Company signed three new North America Customer Communications Segment clients, one of which, when fully transitioned, is anticipated to be among the top five largest Customer Communications Segment clients, with approximately 350 million annual packages, or 11.9% of 2013 annual packages mailed. The transition from in-house print mail operations to DST is expected to be completed in late 2014. The other two clients recently signed represent an additional 45 million annual packages and are expected to be converted during 2014. The Company had a North America client that chose not to renew its contract, which expired in the fourth quarter 2013. On an annualized basis, this client contract represents approximately 120 million packages. Costs and expenses Customer Communications Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased $5.3 million or 0.4% to $1,220.2 million as compared to 2012 . Costs and expenses in the Customer Communications Segment are primarily comprised of reimbursable operating expenses (primarily postage and freight), compensation and benefits costs, material costs (principally paper and ink) and other operating costs. Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $654.7 million during 2013 , an increase of $18.0 million or 2.8% as compared to 2012 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, costs and expenses decreased $12.7 million during 2013 . On this basis, Customer Communications' North America costs and expenses increased $10.7 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily from higher operating costs associated with an increased workforce to support new clients and conversion activities as well as higher material costs from higher volumes of operating revenues. Customer Communications' U.K. costs and expenses decreased $23.4 million primarily due to employee termination expenses and lease abandonment costs associated with consolidating facilities that were incurred in 2012 that did not recur in 2013, foreign exchange movement, as well as the reversal of $2.5 million of lease obligation liabilities that were extinguished during 2013. Customer Communications Segment costs and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $66.0 million or 5.7% to $1,214.9 million as compared to 2011 . Reimbursable operating expenses included in costs and expenses were $636.7 million during 2012 , an increase of $29.7 million or 4.9% as compared to 2011 . Excluding reimbursable operating expenses, Customer Communications Segment costs and expenses increased $36.3 million during 2012 . On this basis, Customer Communications' North America costs and expenses increased $20.5 million during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily from higher material costs resulting from higher volumes of operating revenues, higher compensation costs, and higher costs from a full year of Newkirk. Customer Communications' U.K. costs and expenses increased $15.8 million due to costs and expenses from a full year of Lateral in 2012, $8.5 million of lease abandonment charges associated with vacating certain leased facilities, and higher material costs associated with higher operating revenues. Depreciation and amortization (including goodwill impairment) Customer Communications Segment depreciation and amortization expense was $44.0 million , $107.4 million and $46.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization in 2012 includes a goodwill impairment of the Customer Communications U.K. reporting unit in the amount of $60.8 million . Excluding this goodwill impairment, Customer Communications Segment depreciation and amortization decreased $2.6 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 . On this basis, North America increased $0.1 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 and U.K. depreciation and amortization decreased $2.7 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 , attributable to lower levels of assets due to closing certain operating locations in 2012. 50 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expense increased $60.7 million or 130.0% to $107.4 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 . Excluding the goodwill impairment of the Customer Communications U.K. reporting unit discussed above, depreciation and amortization decreased $0.1 million in 2012 compared to 2011 . North America depreciation and amortization decreased $2.0 million , primarily from lower levels of capital expenditures, partially offset by higher intangible assets amortization from the Newkirk acquisition. Excluding the goodwill impairment, the U.K. depreciation and amortization increased $1.9 million in 2012 compared to 2011 , attributable to higher intangible asset amortization from the Lateral acquisition. Income from operations Customer Communications Segment income from operations was $51.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 , an increase of $86.6 million compared to 2012 . Customer Communications North America income from operations increased $4.7 million and Customer Communications U.K. increased $81.9 million . The increase in Customer Communications North America is from higher operating revenues due to new client volumes, partially offset by higher costs associated with an increased workforce to support new clients and conversion activities. The increase in Customer Communications U.K. is primarily attributable to the goodwill impairment of $60.8 million in 2012 that did not recur. The increase in the U.K. is also attributable to lower employee compensation expenses resulting from reduced headcount and lower facility costs due to closing operating locations in 2012. Customer Communications Segment income from operations was $35.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 , a decrease of $56.8 million compared to 2011 . Customer Communications North America income from operations increased $5.7 million and the operating income from Customer Communications U.K. decreased $62.5 million . The increase in Customer Communications North America is from higher operating revenues. The decrease in Customer Communications U.K. in 2012 is primarily attributable to the $60.8 million goodwill impairment charge and employee termination and lease abandonment costs, partially offset by higher revenues. Additionally, in January 2012, DST acquired the remaining outstanding shares of Output U.K. from the non-controlling shareholders for $17.7 million, resulting in Output U.K. becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary. INVESTMENTS AND OTHER SEGMENT The following tables present the financial results of the Investments and Other Segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating revenues $ 57.2 $ 58.9 $ 56.3 Out-of-pocket reimbursements 0.1 0.3 1.6 Total revenues 57.3 59.2 57.9 Costs and expenses 30.0 47.9 38.0 Depreciation and amortization 17.5 19.6 11.0 Income (loss) from operations $ 9.8 $ (8.3 ) $ 8.9 Operating margin 17.1 % (14.1 )% 15.8 % Revenues Investments and Other Segment total revenues, including out-of-pocket reimbursements, were $57.3 million , $59.2 million and $57.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Revenues are primarily derived from real estate activities. The majority of the real estate revenues are derived from the lease of facilities to the Company's other business segments. Operating revenues (excluding out-of-pocket reimbursements) were $57.2 million , $58.9 million and $56.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . The decrease in operating revenues during 2013 as compared to 2012 is attributable to decreased rental activities associated with the sale of leased properties. The increase in operating revenues during 2012 as compared to 2011 is attributable to higher third party rental activities. 51 Table of Contents Costs and expenses Occupancy costs are generally the largest costs included in costs and expenses in the Investments and Other Segment; however, during 2012 a charitable contribution of State Street securities was made in the amount of $11.0 million. Investments and Other Segment costs and expenses were $30.0 million , $47.9 million and $38.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 in 2012 . Excluding the 2012 charitable donation, costs and expenses decreased $6.9 million in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily attributable to higher gains on the sale of real estate, lower occupancy costs and $1.8 million of leased facility abandonment charges in 2012 that did not recur. Excluding the 2012 charitable donation, costs and expenses decreased $1.1 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily attributable to lower occupancy costs partially offset by $1.8 million of leased facility abandonment charges in 2012. Depreciation and amortization Investments and Other Segment depreciation and amortization was $17.5 million , $19.6 million and $11.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Depreciation and amortization decreased $2.1 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to impairments related to non-operating real estate assets of $7.4 million recorded in 2013 as compared to $9.0 million recorded in 2012. The remaining decline in depreciation was due to the sale of certain properties during 2012. Depreciation and amortization increased $8.6 million during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to real estate impairments of $9.0 million recorded in 2012. Income from operations Investments and Other Segment had income from operations of $9.8 million and $8.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2011 , respectively, and a loss from operations of $8.3 million in 2012 . Income from operations increased $18.1 million during 2013 as compared to 2012 , primarily from reduced leased facility abandonment costs, lower net real estate impairment charges, and the charitable contributions expense in 2012 that did not recur, partially offset by lower operating revenues as a result of the sale of certain leased properties. Income from operations decreased $17.2 million during 2012 as compared to 2011 , primarily from the charitable contribution of marketable securities, real estate impairment charges and a lease abandonment charge, partially offset by higher operating revenues. Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information In addition to reporting operating income, pretax income, net income, net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (DST Earnings) and earnings per share on a GAAP basis, DST has also made certain non-GAAP adjustments which are described below in the section titled Description of Non-GAAP Adjustments and are reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures in the attached financial schedules titled Reconciliation of Reported Results to Income Adjusted for Certain Non-GAAP Items below. In making these non-GAAP adjustments, the Company takes into account the impact of items that are not necessarily ongoing in nature, that do not have a high level of predictability associated with them or that are non-operational in nature. Generally, these items include net gains on dispositions of business units, net gains (losses) associated with securities and other investments, restructuring and impairment costs and other similar items. Management believes the exclusion of these items provides a useful basis for evaluating underlying business unit performance, but should not be considered in isolation and is not in accordance with, or a substitute for, evaluating business unit performance utilizing GAAP financial information. Management uses non-GAAP measures in its budgeting and forecasting processes and to further analyze its financial trends and operational run-rate, as well as making financial comparisons to prior periods presented on a similar basis. The Company believes that providing such adjusted results allows investors and other users of DST's financial statements to better understand DST's comparative operating performance for the periods presented. DST's management uses each of these non-GAAP financial measures in its own evaluation of the Company's performance, particularly when comparing performance to past periods. DST's non-GAAP measures may differ from similar measures by other companies, even if similar terms are used to identify such measures. Although DST's management believes non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating the performance of its business, DST acknowledges that items excluded from such measures may have a material impact on the Company's income from operations, pretax income, net income, net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, management typically uses Non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP results. These factors should be considered when evaluating DST's results. 52 Table of Contents DST SYSTEMS, INC. RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED RESULTS TO INCOME ADJUSTED FOR CERTAIN NON-GAAP ITEMS Year Ended December 31, (in millions, except per share amounts) 2013 Operating Income Pretax Income Net Income DST Earnings* Diluted EPS Reported GAAP income $ 313.2 $ 544.9 $ 352.6 $ 352.6 $ 8.00 Adjusted to remove: Included in operating income: Employee termination expenses - Financial Services 3.9 3.9 2.7 2.7 0.06 Employee termination expenses - Customer Communications 1.6 1.6 1.3 1.3 0.03 Contract termination payment - Financial Services (6.0 ) (6.0 ) (3.7 ) (3.7 ) (0.08 ) Loss accrual - Healthcare Services (4) 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 0.06 Net loss on real estate assets - Investments & Other (10) 3.2 3.2 1.9 1.9 0.04 Settlement of leased facility obligation - Customer Communications (7) (2.5 ) (2.5 ) (2.5 ) (2.5 ) (0.06 ) Included in non-operating income: Net gain on securities and other investments (1) (222.8 ) (138.1 ) (138.1 ) (3.14 ) Net gain from unconsolidated affiliates (2) (7.4 ) (4.6 ) (4.6 ) (0.10 ) Income tax items (3) (11.0 ) (11.0 ) (0.24 ) Adjusted Non-GAAP income $ 315.9 $ 317.4 $ 201.1 $ 201.1 $ 4.57 2012 Operating Income Pretax Income Net Income DST Earnings* Diluted EPS Reported GAAP income $ 157.3 $ 519.5 $ 324.0 $ 324.0 $ 7.08 Adjusted to remove: Included in operating income: Business advisory expenses - Financial Services 1.6 1.6 1.0 1.0 0.02 Employee termination expenses - Financial Services 13.3 13.3 10.0 10.0 0.22 Employee termination expenses - Healthcare Services 0.9 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.01 Employee termination expenses - Customer Communications 3.1 3.1 2.5 2.5 0.06 Loss accrual - Financial Services (4) 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 0.04 Leased facility abandonment costs - Customer Communications (7) 9.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 0.20 Leased facility abandonment costs - Investment & Other 1.8 1.8 1.1 1.1 0.02 Impairment of goodwill - Customer Communications (9) 60.8 60.8 60.8 60.8 1.33 Net loss on real estate assets - Investment & Other (10) 7.1 7.1 4.3 4.3 0.09 Included in operating income and non-operating income: Asset impairment, employee termination and other expenses from insurance processing business - Financial Services (8) 9.1 8.3 5.1 5.1 0.11 Charitable contribution of securities - Investments & Other (5) 11.0 2.1 (2.9 ) (2.9 ) (0.06 ) Included in non-operating income: Net gain on securities and other investments (1) (333.2 ) (208.0 ) (208.0 ) (4.54 ) Net gain from unconsolidated affiliates (6) (11.1 ) (9.2 ) (9.2 ) (0.20 ) Income tax items (3) (18.3 ) (18.3 ) (0.40 ) Adjusted Non-GAAP income $ 277.1 $ 285.3 $ 182.0 $ 182.0 $ 3.98 Note: See the Description of Non-GAAP Adjustments section for a description of the above adjustments and see the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information section for management's reasons for providing non-GAAP financial information. * DST Earnings has been defined as Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (after non-controlling interest). 53 Table of Contents 2011 Operating Income Pretax Income Net Income DST Earnings* Diluted EPS Reported GAAP income $ 260.1 $ 274.0 $ 178.2 $ 183.1 $ 3.95 Adjusted to remove: Included in operating income: Contract termination payment, net - Financial Services (2.0 ) (2.0 ) (1.2 ) (1.2 ) (0.03 ) Employee termination expenses - Financial Services 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 0.01 Employee termination expenses - Healthcare Services 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.01 Employee termination expenses - Customer Communications 5.1 5.1 3.2 3.0 0.06 Business development expenses - Financial Services 3.1 3.1 1.8 1.8 0.04 Business development expenses - Customer Communications 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Business advisory expenses - Financial Services 1.8 1.8 1.1 1.1 0.02 Restructuring cost to amend sales agreements - Financial Services (11) 7.3 7.3 4.4 4.4 0.10 Loss accrual - Healthcare Services (4) 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 0.08 Included in non-operating income: Net gain on securities and other investments (1) (17.2 ) (10.5 ) (10.5 ) (0.23 ) Net loss on repurchase of convertible debentures 1.2 0.8 0.8 0.02 Employee termination expenses at unconsolidated affiliate 2.6 2.3 2.3 0.05 Impairment of unconsolidated affiliate 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.01 Adjusted Non-GAAP income $ 280.4 $ 281.6 $ 185.0 $ 189.7 $ 4.09 ______________________________________________________________________ Note: See the Description of Non-GAAP Adjustments section for a description of the above adjustments and see the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information section for management's reasons for providing non-GAAP financial information. * DST Earnings has been defined as Net income attributable to DST Systems, Inc. (after non-controlling interest). Description of Non-GAAP Adjustments (1) Net gain on securities and other investments is comprised of net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities, other than temporary impairments on available-for-sale securities and net gains on private equity funds and other investments. (2) The net gain from unconsolidated affiliates is included within equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. During 2013, a gain was recorded by IFDS ($6.3 million) and BFDS ($1.1 million) related to the sale of an unconsolidated affiliate. (3) Income tax items relate to benefits for refund claims, expense on the repatriation of international cash and other similar items. The Company received income tax benefits resulting from the resolution of refund claims for historical domestic manufacturing deductions and research and experimentation credits. During fourth quarter 2013, the Company recorded income tax expense associated with the return of approximately $62.0 million of international cash to the U.S. (4) Loss accruals are recorded within Costs and expenses. A loss accrual was recorded in 2013 and 2011 for a previously disclosed regulatory inquiry regarding the processing of certain pharmacy claims during the period 2006 to 2009 in the Healthcare Services Segment. A loss accrual was recorded in 2012 on a dispute related to a 2001 international software development agreement within the Financial Services Segment. (5) The expense for a charitable contribution of marketable securities in the amount of $11.0 million was offset by a book gain of $8.9 million on the disposition of securities, which was recorded within other income, net and the related income tax benefit. (6) The net gain from unconsolidated affiliates, which was included in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, was associated with the receipt of a cash distribution from a previously impaired investment and a gain from the disposition of a Canadian real estate partnership by IFDS, partially offset by impairments of other unconsolidated affiliates. (7) During 2012, the Company recorded a liability for the estimated leased facilities abandonment costs associated with properties not used in the U.K. Customer Communications operations. Subsequently in 2013, a lease obligation was extinguished resulting in the reversal of a portion of the remaining liability. (8) Pretax costs associated with ceasing the development of a processing solution for the insurance market were comprised of asset impairment charges of $5.8 million included in depreciation and amortization expense, and employee termination expenses of $1.9 million and other operating costs of $1.4 million, which were both included in costs and expenses. These costs were partially offset by 54 Table of Contents the recognition of previously deferred IFDS software license revenues of $0.8 million related to the 2011 sale of its Percana software license to DST, included in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. (9) The goodwill impairment of $60.8 million, included in depreciation and amortization was associated with a reduction in the estimated fair value of the Customer Communications U.K. reporting unit in fourth quarter 2012. (10) Net gains/losses on real estate assets include gains on the disposition of real estate assets, net of impairments recorded on the carrying value of real estate assets. The Company recorded net gains on the disposition of real estate assets of $4.2 million and $1.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Gains on sale of real estate are recorded in costs and expenses. The Company recorded impairment charges of $7.4 million and $9.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to real estate not currently utilized in the Company's operations. Impairment charges are included within depreciation and amortization expense. (11) Restructuring cost associated with amending sales/marketing agreements of an acquired business are included within costs and expenses. Management's Analysis of Non-GAAP Results for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 Taking into account the non-GAAP items described in the above tables, adjusted non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $4.57 , $3.98 and $4.09 during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Management's discussion of the Company's Results of Operations and Year to Year Business Segment Comparisons in the sections above are applicable for these changes in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, when adjusting for the non-GAAP items in the reconciliation tables above. In addition, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is impacted by changes in average diluted shares outstanding which were 44.1 million , 45.8 million and 46.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 , is attributable to improved operating revenues within each of the operating segments, lower costs in the Customer Communications U.K. operations and lower average diluted shares outstanding partially offset by lower equity in earnings from unconsolidated affiliates. The decrease in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 , is attributable to decreased Financial Services Segment income from operations, higher costs associated with new business initiatives, decreased mutual fund registered accounts and from decreased equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates resulting from higher new product development and new client conversion expenses. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Company's Assessment of Short-term and Long-term Liquidity The Company believes that its existing cash balances and other current assets, together with cash provided by operating activities and, as necessary, the Company's revolving credit facilities, will suffice to meet the Company's operating and debt service requirements and other current liabilities for at least the next 12 months. Further, the Company believes that its short-term liquidity may be increased by monetizing available-for-sale securities owned by its domestic subsidiaries (which were $654.0 million at December 31, 2013 ) and other assets, and that its longer term liquidity and capital requirements will also be met through cash provided by operating activities, bank credit facilities and available-for-sale securities and other investments. At December 31, 2013 , the Company's total cash and cash equivalents is $62.5 million , of which $34.8 million is held outside of the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes, less foreign tax credits. The Company has accrued for U.S. federal and state tax liabilities on the earnings of its international subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. The repatriation of these earnings could result in additional U.S. federal and state income tax payments in future years. The Company utilizes a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company assessed its forecasted cash needs and overall financial position of its international subsidiaries and determined that a portion of previously permanently reinvested earnings would no longer be reinvested overseas. As a result, the Company returned $62.0 million of cash to the U.S. through a one-time dividend, repatriation and loan repayments from its international subsidiaries as the funds were no longer considered needed in those locations resulting in incremental tax expense of $7.5 million. These funds were utilized to pay down the Company's outstanding debt on its domestic revolving credit facilities. At December 31, 2013 , the Company had approximately $671.3 million of availability under its domestic revolving credit facilities. The only credit facilities with outstanding amounts as of December 31, 2013 that are scheduled to mature in 2014 are the term loan credit facilities in the amount of $125.0 million which will mature on October 28, 2014 and the accounts receivable securitization program, which has $150.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2013 and matures on May 15, 2014. The Company intends to utilize funds from operations, investing activities and the existing syndicated line of credit, as necessary, to repay the term loan credit facility at maturity. The Company currently plans to renew the $150.0 million accounts receivable securities program in May 2014. The Company's debt agreements contain customary restrictive covenants, 55 Table of Contents including limitations on consolidated indebtedness, liens, investments, subsidiary indebtedness, asset dispositions and restricted payments (including stock repurchases and cash dividends), and requires certain leverage and interest coverage ratios to be maintained. The Company is currently in compliance with these covenants. Sources and Uses of Cash The Company had $62.5 million , $88.3 million and $40.9 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The Company's primary source of liquidity has historically been cash provided by operations. In addition, the Company has used returns on the sale of investments to fund other investing and financing activities. Principal uses of cash are operations, reinvestment in the Company's proprietary technologies, capital expenditures, investment purchases, business acquisitions, payments on debt, stock repurchases and dividend payments. Information on the Company's consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 is presented in the Statement of Cash Flows, categorized by operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities were $395.2 million , $216.0 million and $404.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The table below presents operating cash flows, as adjusted for certain significant items (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Operating Cash Flows, as reported $ 395.2 $ 216.0 404.3 Adjustments: Taxes paid on security gains 73.5 78.9 6.0 Dividends on private company investment, net (30.5 ) Dividend from BFDS (125.0 ) Deferred revenue from BFDS 40.0 (40.0 ) Prepayment for software services 35.0 Operating Cash Flows, as adjusted $ 343.7 $ 339.4 $ 370.3 The $179.2 million net increase in operating cash flows during 2013 as compared to 2012 is primarily attributable to a $125.0 million dividend received from BFDS during 2013 . Additionally, operating cash flows during 2013 resulted from net income of $352.6 million , changes in working capital described below, and adjustments for non-cash items included in the determination of net income including depreciation and amortization expense of $143.3 million , amortization of share-based compensation of $16.9 million , equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $23.0 million and net gains on investments of $195.2 million . During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , the Company has received significant proceeds from the sale of investments. The proceeds from these investment sales are included in investing activities, but the income taxes paid on these investment gains are required to be treated as an operating cash outflow. Income tax expense resulting from these investment sales will reduce operating cash flows in the period that taxes are paid. The significant working capital changes during 2013 as compared to 2012 include accounts receivable, income taxes payable, deferred revenues and gains, and other assets as a result of the following: Accounts receivable decreased $15.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to an increase of $34.1 million during 2012 , resulting in a net increase in working capital of $49.9 million . Income taxes payable increased during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to 2012 , primarily attributable to the timing of tax payments on the 2013 and 2012 investment sales, higher operating results and incremental tax on the repatriated foreign earnings in 2013. Deferred revenues and gains increased $4.1 million during 2013 , as compared to a decrease in deferred revenues of $33.7 million during 2012 , resulting in a net increase in working capital of $37.8 million , mostly attributable to the utilization of a $40.0 million prepayment from BFDS for 2012 processing services that was received in 2011. Other assets increased by $7.9 million during 2013 , which caused a $16.4 million increase in working capital when compared to 2012. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company made a prepayment for software services that will be used over multiple years. 56 Table of Contents The $188.3 million net decrease in operating cash flows during 2012 as compared to 2011 is primarily attributable to income taxes paid on investment gains, utilization of a BFDS prepayment for 2012 services received in 2011 and prepayment for a multi-year software license agreement for DST's data centers. Operating cash flows during 2012 resulted principally from net income of $324.0 million , changes in working capital described below and adjustments for non-cash items included in the determination of net income including depreciation and amortization expense of $216.4 million , amortization of share-based compensation of $25.5 million , equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of $32.2 million and net gains on investments of $280.7 million . The significant working capital changes during 2012 as compared to 2011 include deferred revenues and gains, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, other assets, accounts receivable and income taxes payable as a result of the following: Deferred revenues and gains decreased $33.7 million during 2012 , as compared to an increase in deferred revenues of $38.3 million during 2011 , a net decrease in working capital of $72.0 million , mostly attributable to the receipt of $40.0 million from BFDS in 2011 as a partial prepayment of processing services provided by DST in 2012 . Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased by approximately $14.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to an increase of $28.0 million during year ended December 31, 2011 , a net decrease in working capital of $42.5 million . During the year ended December 31, 2012 , the Company made a prepayment for software services that will be used over multiple years. The prepayment resulted in an increase in other assets of approximately $24.3 million during 2012 , but caused a $36.8 million decrease in working capital. Accounts receivable increased $34.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to a decrease of $11.0 million during 2012 , a net decrease in working capital of $45.1 million . These working capital decreases were partially offset by increases in income taxes payable during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the 2011 , attributable to the timing of tax payments on 2012 investment sales. Software Development and Maintenance The Company's software development and maintenance efforts are focused on introducing new products and services as well as enhancing its existing products and services. The following table summarizes software development, maintenance and enhancements to the Company's proprietary systems and software products which are included in net income within cash flows from operations (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Non-capitalizable software development and maintenance costs $ 123.7 $ 128.7 $ 131.2 Amortization of capitalized software development costs 31.4 28.7 26.8 Investing Activities Cash flows provided by investing activities were $310.1 million and $177.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, as compared to cash flows used by investing activities of $345.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 . The $132.4 million increase in investing activities during 2013 as compared to 2012 is primarily attributable to higher cash flows in 2013 from restricted cash to satisfy client fund obligations of $198.4 million , partially offset by higher capital expenditures of $4.8 million . Additionally, cash flows from net investment activities (proceeds from investment sales, net of investments in securities) were $332.9 million in 2013 as compared to $381.3 million in 2012 , resulting in $48.4 million lower investing cash flows in 2013. The $522.7 million increase in cash flows provided by investing activities during 2012 as compared to 2011 is attributable to cash inflows for net investment activities (proceeds from sale, net of investments in securities) of $381.3 million as compared to cash outflows of $49.4 million in 2012 and the absence of acquisitions of businesses of $365.4 million in 2012 , which are partially offset by lower cash flows in 2012 from restricted cash to satisfy client fund obligations of $277.7 million and higher capital expenditures of $14.4 million . 57 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures The following table summarizes capital expenditures by Segment (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Financial Services Segment $ 65.1 $ 49.9 $ 41.4 Healthcare Services Segment 10.8 9.9 9.7 Customer Communications Segment 22.1 34.0 23.6 Investments and Other Segment 4.8 4.2 8.9 $ 102.8 $ 98.0 $ 83.6 During 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the Company capitalized software development costs of $28.4 million , $30.9 million , and $31.4 million , respectively. Additionally, the Company acquired approximately $2.5 million , $8.9 million and $9.1 million of equipment with debt during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Capital expenditures using debt are treated as non-cash transactions and are not included in the annual capital expenditure amounts above. The Company expects incremental capital expenditures in 2014 of approximately $35.0 million. The anticipated increase in 2014 capital expenditures is primarily attributable to planned updates of the generator plant at the Company's data center and the acquisition of specific equipment for a new client in the Customer Communications Segment. Investments and Other Segment capital expenditures are primarily buildings and building improvements. Future capital expenditures are expected to be funded primarily by cash flows from operating activities or draws from bank lines of credit, as required. Investments The Company purchased $105.5 million , $302.5 million and $423.5 million of investments in securities in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. During 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , the Company received $438.4 million , $683.8 million and $374.1 million , respectively, from the sale/maturities of investments. Included in the $438.4 million of proceeds from sale/maturities of investments in 2013 is $148.8 million of pre-tax proceeds from the sale of State Street stock. The $683.8 million of proceeds from sale/maturities of investments in 2012 is primarily the result of $138.7 million of pre-tax proceeds from a privately-held investment and from the sale of Computershare, Euronet Worldwide and State Street stock. Funds Held on Behalf of Clients Funds held on behalf of clients is comprised of funds held on behalf of transfer agency clients and funds held on behalf of pharmacy processing clients. The $71.5 million provided from investing cash flows during 2013 is primarily attributable to lower Argus client funds held. The $126.9 million investing cash flow decrease during 2012 is primarily attributable to higher Argus client funds held. Business Acquisitions During 2011, the Company paid $365.4 million , net of cash acquired, for the following business acquisitions: ALPS, Newkirk, Lateral Group, Finix, Converge, Intellisource and Subserveo. The acquisition of ALPS on October 31, 2011 for $251.9 million represented the largest acquisition payment in 2011 which was funded from proceeds from the $125.0 million term loan facility and from existing credit facilities. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities totaled $731.1 million , $346.3 million and $158.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in net cash flows used in financing activities during 2013 as compared to 2012 is primarily attributable to $208.8 million of higher net cash outflows in 2013 on client fund obligations, $171.9 million of higher repurchases of common stock and $31.3 million lower proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $19.1 million lower net debt repayments during 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2013 , cash outflows from share repurchase activities of $276.4 million , net debt repayments of $362.0 million, net decrease in client funds obligations of $82.6 million , and payment of cash dividends of $51.8 million , were partially offset by proceeds received from the issuance of common stock of $30.6 million . 58 Table of Contents The increase in net cash flows used in financing activities during 2012 as compared to 2011 is primarily attributable to repayments of net debt of $381.1 million in 2012, primarily from proceeds received from the sale of a privately-held investment and dividend and the sale of Computershare Ltd., Euronet Worldwide and State Street Corporation stock, as compared to net debt borrowings of $125.6 million in 2011. The increase is also from the purchase of the remaining non-controlling interest in DST Output U.K. of $17.7 million in 2012. These increases are partially offset by lower net cash outflows in 2012 on client fund obligations of $268.0 million and lower repurchases of common stock of $70.2 million . Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases The Company received proceeds of $30.6 million , $61.9 million and $64.8 million from the issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options during the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. During 2013 , the Company spent $252.6 million to repurchase 3.4 million shares of DST common stock, of which $2.6 million was under the previous share repurchase plan which was replaced in January 2013. The remaining $250.0 million that was repurchased in 2013 fully utilized the existing share repurchase plan. Under the previous share repurchase plans, the Company expended $73.7 million for approximately 1.3 million shares and $135.4 million for approximately 3.0 million shares during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. On January 29, 2014, the Board of Directors of DST authorized a new $250.0 million share repurchase plan. Dividends DST paid cash dividends of $1.20 , $0.80 , and $0.70 per common share in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The total cash paid for dividends in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was $51.8 million , $36.0 million , and $31.6 million , respectively. The Board of Directors of DST determined to increase its dividend frequency from a semi-annual basis to a quarterly basis in the first quarter of 2013 resulting in the increase in dividends paid in 2013 as compared to 2012 and 2011. On January 29, 2014, the Board of Directors of DST declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share on its common stock payable on March 14, 2014 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2014. Future cash dividends will depend upon financial condition, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by DST's Board of Directors. Client Funds Obligations Client funds obligations represent the Company's contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by the Company. In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight. Client funds obligations represent liabilities that will be repaid within one year of the balance sheet date. The Company had $366.5 million , $442.7 million and $315.2 million of client funds obligations at December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Debt Activity The Company has used the following primary sources of financing: its syndicated line of credit facility; convertible debentures; subsidiary line of credit facilities; secured promissory notes; term loan credit facilities, loans from unconsolidated affiliates; accounts receivable securitization program; privately placed senior notes and secured borrowings. The Company has also utilized bridge loans as necessary to augment the above sources of debt financing. The Company had $683.0 million , $1,011.6 million and $1,380.3 million of debt outstanding at December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, a decrease of $328.6 million during 2013 and a decrease of $368.7 million during 2012 . The decrease in debt outstanding during 2013 is primarily from the repayment of the real estate credit agreement upon maturity in September 2013 ($101.7 million), the repayment of the promissory note with BFDS ($107.0 million) and the redemption for cash of all remaining Convertible debentures ($90.1 million). Additionally in 2013, the Company renewed its accounts receivable securitization program resulting in a new maturity date of May 15, 2014 and amended its term loan credit facility to remove the provision requiring prepayment of the loan upon the incurrence of additional indebtedness and to extend the maturity date to October 28, 2014. The debt outstanding declined during 2012 primarily from the paydown of the Company's revolving credit facility. In 2012, the Company amended its revolving credit facility to enable the Company to use proceeds from asset dispositions to repurchase shares or pay dividends. The Company's debt arrangements are described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. 59 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth the Company's contractual obligations and commercial commitments (in millions): Payment Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 2 - 3 Years 4 - 5 Years More than 5 Years Debt obligations $ 683.0 $ 283.6 $ 64.1 $ 175.3 $ 160.0 Operating lease obligations 125.5 27.0 41.5 30.7 26.3 Software license agreements 99.5 22.8 55.4 21.3 Income tax uncertainties 91.5 91.5 Other 37.3 17.6 17.3 1.8 0.6 $ 1,036.8 $ 351.0 $ 269.8 $ 229.1 $ 186.9 Interest obligations on the Company's outstanding debt are not included in the table above. Interest rates on the Company's secured promissory notes are at a fixed rate of 6.0%. The interest rates applicable to loans under the term loan credit facility are generally based on LIBOR or prime rates plus applicable margins as defined in the facility. The revolving credit facility contains grid schedules that adjust borrowing costs up or down based upon the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The grid schedules may result in fluctuations in borrowing costs ranging from 1.10% to 2.10% over LIBOR and 0.10% to 1.10% over base rate as defined. Additionally, an annual facility fee of 0.15% to 0.40% is required on this revolving syndicated line of credit. The Senior Notes have fixed interest rates and are comprised of $40.0 million of 4.19% Series A Senior Notes, $105.0 million of 4.86% Series B Senior Notes, $65.0 million of 5.06% Series C Senior Notes and $160.0 million of 5.42% Series D Senior Notes. In addition to the financial instruments listed above, the program fees incurred on proceeds from the sale of receivables under the Company's accounts receivable securitization program are determined based on variable interest rates associated with LIBOR. The Company has income tax uncertainties in the amount of $91.5 million at December 31, 2013 . These obligations are classified as non-current on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as resolution of these matters is expected to take more than a year. The Company estimates that these matters may take more than one year to resolve as reflected in the table above, however, the ultimate timing of resolution is uncertain. Other Commercial Commitments The Company has an agreement to guarantee up to $8.0 million of a $38.5 million mortgage loan to a 50% owned real estate joint venture. The $38.5 million loan matures on September 30, 2018. At December 31, 2013 and 2012 , total borrowings on the loan were $28.3 million and $29.1 million , respectively, and the Company's guarantee totaled $1.5 million for both December 31, 2013 and 2012 . The Company has an agreement, which became effective on January 28, 2013, for a performance guarantee up to $5.0 million on a 20 year franchise agreement entered into by a 50% owned real estate joint venture. At December 31, 2013, the Companys liability recorded associated with the guarantee was $0.8 million. The Company's 50% owned joint ventures are generally governed by shareholder or partnership agreements. The agreements generally entitle the Company to elect one-half of the directors to the board in the case of corporations and to have 50% voting/managing interest in the case of partnerships. The agreements generally provide that the Company or the other party, if it desires to terminate the agreement, may establish a price payable in cash, or a promise to pay cash, for all of the other's ownership in the joint venture and submit a binding offer, in writing, to the other party to sell to the other party all of its ownership interests in the joint venture or to purchase all ownership interests owned by the other party at such offering price. The party receiving the offer generally has a specified period of time to either accept the offer to sell its interest, or to elect to purchase the offering party's interest, in either case at the established offering price. The Company cannot estimate the potential aggregate offering price that it could be required to receive for its interest in the case of a sale, or to pay for the other party's interest in the case of a purchase; however, the amount could be material. In addition to the guarantees entered into as mentioned above, the Company has guaranteed certain obligations of certain joint ventures under service agreements entered into by the joint ventures and their customers. The amount of such obligations is not stated in the agreements. Depending on the negotiated terms of the guaranty and/or the underlying service agreement, the Company's liability under the guaranty may be subject to time and materiality limitations, monetary caps and other conditions and defenses. Included below are examples of such indemnity obligations. In certain instances in which the Company licenses proprietary or third party systems to customers, the Company gives certain warranties and infringement indemnities to the licensee, the terms of which vary depending on the negotiated terms of each 60 Table of Contents respective license agreement, but which generally warrant that such systems will perform in accordance with their specifications. The amount of such obligations is not stated in the license agreements. The Company's liability for breach of such warranties may be subject to time and materiality limitations, monetary caps and other conditions and defenses. From time to time, the Company enters into agreements with unaffiliated parties containing indemnification provisions, the terms of which vary depending on the negotiated terms of each respective agreement. The amount of such obligations is not stated in the agreements. The Company's liability under such indemnification provisions may be subject to time and materiality limitations, monetary caps and other conditions and defenses. The Company has entered into purchase and service agreements with its vendors, and consulting agreements with providers of consulting services to the Company, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to indemnify certain of such vendors and consultants, respectively, against third party claims arising from the Company's use of the vendor's product or the services of the vendor or consultant. In connection with the acquisition or disposition of subsidiaries, operating units and business assets by the Company, the Company has entered into agreements containing indemnification provisions, the terms of which vary depending on the negotiated terms of each respective agreement, but which are generally described as follows: (i) in connection with acquisitions made by the Company, the Company has agreed to indemnify the seller against third party claims made against the seller relating to the subject subsidiary, operating unit or asset and arising after the closing of the transaction, and (ii) in connection with dispositions made by the Company, the Company has agreed to indemnify the buyer against damages incurred by the buyer due to the buyer's reliance on representations and warranties relating to the subject subsidiary, operating unit or business assets in the disposition agreement if such representations or warranties were untrue when made, or due to any breach of the representations, warranties, agreements or covenants contained in the agreement. The Company has entered into agreements with certain third parties, including banks and escrow, agents that provide software escrow, fiduciary and other services to the Company or to its benefit plans or customers. Under such agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such service providers for third party claims relating to the carrying out of their respective duties under such agreements. The Company has entered into agreements with lenders providing financing to the Company pursuant to which the Company agrees to indemnify such lenders for third party claims arising from or relating to such financings. In connection with real estate mortgage financing, the Company has entered into environmental indemnity agreements in which the Company has agreed to indemnify the lenders for any damage sustained by the lenders relating to any environmental contamination on the subject properties. In connection with the acquisition or disposition of real estate by the Company, the Company has entered into real estate contracts containing indemnification provisions, the terms of which vary depending on the negotiated terms of each respective contract, but which are generally described as follows: (i) in connection with acquisitions by the Company, the Company has agreed to indemnify the seller against third party claims made against the seller arising from the Company's on-site inspections, tests and investigations of the subject property made by the Company as part of its due diligence and against third party claims relating to the operations on the subject property after the closing of the transaction, and (ii) in connection with dispositions by the Company, the Company has agreed to indemnify the buyer for damages incurred by the buyer due to the buyer's reliance on representations and warranties relating to the subject property made by the Company in the real estate contract if such representations or warranties were untrue when made and against third party claims relating to operations on the subject property prior to the closing of the transaction. In connection with the leasing of real estate by the Company, as landlord and as tenant, the Company has entered into occupancy leases containing indemnification provisions, the terms of which vary depending on the negotiated terms of each respective lease, but which are generally described as follows: (i) in connection with leases in which the Company is the tenant, the Company has agreed to indemnify the landlord against third party claims relating to the Company's occupancy of the subject property, including claims arising from loss of life, bodily injury and/or damage to property thereon, and (ii) in connection with leases in which the Company is the landlord, the Company has agreed to indemnify the tenant against third party claims to the extent occasioned wholly or in part by any negligent act or omission of the Company or arising from loss of life, bodily injury and/or damage to property in or upon any of the common areas or other areas under the Company's control. Except for the $0.8 million guarantee described above that has been accrued at December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had not accrued any liability on the aforementioned guarantees or indemnifications as they relate to future performance criteria or indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others in accordance with accounting and reporting guidance on guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others. 61 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements An off-balance sheet arrangement is any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement involving an unconsolidated entity under which a company has (1) made guarantees, (2) a retained or a contingent interest in transferred assets, (3) an obligation under derivative instruments classified as equity, or (4) any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the company, or that engages in leasing, hedging or research and development arrangements with the company. The Company believes that its guarantee arrangements will not have a material current or future effect on its financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, capital expenditures, capital resources, liquidity or results of operations. These arrangements are described above and in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. When deemed appropriate, DST uses derivative instruments as a risk management tool to mitigate the potential impact of certain market risks. The Company may use various types of derivative instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk including, but not limited to, forward contracts, option contracts and swaps. Accounting and reporting guidance for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and hedging activities requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value, and that the changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. The fair value of the Company's cash flow hedges resulted in liabilities of $0.5 million and $2.3 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The Company's derivative arrangements are described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.