ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, (SEC), on March 27, 2024. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Our fiscal year ends on January 31, and our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31, and January 31. Our fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and January 31, 2024 are referred to herein as fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, respectively. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to SentinelOne, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to SentinelOne, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview We founded SentinelOne in 2013 with a dramatically new approach to cybersecurity. We pioneered the worlds first purpose-built AI-powered extended detection and response (XDR) platform to make cybersecurity defense truly autonomous, from the endpoint and beyond. Our Singularity Platform instantly defends against cyberattacks performing at a faster speed, greater scale, and higher accuracy than otherwise possible from a human-powered approach. Our Singularity Platform ingests, correlates, and queries petabytes of structured and unstructured data from a myriad of ever-expanding disparate external and internal sources in real-time. We build rich context and deliver greater visibility by constructing a dynamic representation of data across an organization. As a result, our AI models are highly accurate, actionable, and autonomous. Our distributed AI models run both locally on every endpoint and every cloud workload, as well as on our cloud platform. Our Static and vector-agnostic Behavioral AI models, which run on the endpoints themselves, provide our customers with protection even when their devices are not connected to the cloud. In the cloud, our Streaming AI detects anomalies that surface when multiple data feeds are correlated. By providing full visibility into the Storyline of every secured device across the organization through one console, our platform makes it very fast for analysts to easily search through petabytes of data to investigate incidents and proactively hunt threats. We have extended our control and visibility planes beyond the traditional endpoint to unmanaged IoT devices. Our Singularity Platform can be flexibly deployed on the environments that our customers choose, including public, private, or hybrid clouds. Our feature parity across Windows, macOS, Linux, and Kubernetes offers best-of-breed protection, visibility, and control across todays heterogeneous IT environments. Together, these capabilities make our platform the logical choice for organizations of all sizes, industry verticals, and compliance requirements. Our platform offers true multi-tenancy, which enables some of the worlds largest organizations and our managed security providers and incident response partners with an excellent management experience. Our customers realize improved cybersecurity outcomes with fewer people. We generate substantially all of our revenue by selling subscriptions to our Singularity Platform. Our subscription tiers include Singularity Core, Singularity Control, and Singularity Complete. We also offer product bundles that include Singularity Commercial and Singularity Enterprise. Additionally, customers can extend the functionality of our platform through our subscription Singularity Modules. We generally price our subscriptions 22 Table of Contents and modules on a per agent basis, and each agent generally corresponds with an endpoint, server, virtual machine, or container. Our subscription contracts typically range from one to three years. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of a contract. Most of our contracts are for terms representing annual increments, therefore contracts generally come up for renewal in the same period in subsequent years. The timing of large multi-year enterprise contracts can create some variability in subscription order levels between periods, though the impact to our revenue in any particular period is limited as a result of ratable revenue recognition. Our go-to-market strategy is focused on acquiring new customers and driving expanded usage of our platform by existing customers. Our sales organization is comprised of our enterprise sales, inside sales and customer solutions engineering teams. It leverages our global network of independent software vendors (ISVs), alliance partners, and channel partners for prospect access. Additionally, our sales teams work closely with our customers, channel partners, and alliance partners to drive adoption of our platform, and our software solutions are fulfilled through our channel partners. Our channel partners include some of the worlds largest resellers and distributors, managed service providers (MSPs), managed security service providers (MSSPs), managed detection and response providers (MDRs), original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and incident response (IR) firms. Once customers experience the benefits of our platform, they often upgrade their subscriptions to benefit from the full range of our XDR, IT, and security operations capabilities. Additionally, many of our customers adopt Singularity Modules over time to extend the functionality of our platform and increase their coverage footprint. The combination of platform upgrades and extended modules drives our powerful land-and-expand motion. Our Singularity Platform is used globally by organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries. We had 1,193 customers with annualized recurring revenue (ARR) of $100,000 or more as of April 30, 2024, up from 917 as of April 30, 2023. We define ARR as the annualized revenue run rate of our subscription and consumption and usage-based agreements at the end of a reporting period, assuming contracts are renewed on their existing terms for customers that are under contracts with us. As of April 30, 2024, no single end customer accounted for more than 3% of our ARR. Our revenue outside of the U.S. represented 37% and 35% for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, illustrating the global nature of our solutions. We have grown rapidly since our inception. Our revenue was $186.4 million and $133.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 40%. During this period, we continued to invest in growing our business to capitalize on our market opportunity. As a result, our net loss for the three months ended April 30, 2024 and 2023 was $70.1 million and $106.9 million, respectively. Impact of Global Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Conditions Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on customer behavior. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, interest rate volatility, slower growth, potential recession, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, actual or perceived instability in the global banking industry, potential uncertainty with respect to the federal debt ceiling and budget and potential government shutdowns related thereto, and other changes in economic conditions, and the impact of natural or man-made global events, including wars and other regional geopolitical armed conflict, such as the conflicts in the Middle East, Ukraine and tensions between China and Taiwan, may result in decreased sales productivity and growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. As a result of the current macroeconomic environment, we have recently experienced certain impacts on our business, including a decline in usage and consumption patterns from certain customers, especially larger enterprise customers, longer sales cycles, and deal downsizing by new customers and of renewals by existing customers, especially larger enterprises. We intend to continue to monitor global macroeconomic conditions closely and may determine to take certain financial or operational actions in response to such conditions to the extent our business begins to be adversely impacted. We maintain an office in Tel Aviv, Israel and had approximately 12% of our personnel in Israel as of April 30, 2024. We are closely monitoring the unfolding events of the armed conflict in the Middle East which began in October 2023. While this conflict is still evolving, to date, the conflict has not had an adverse impact on our business 23 Table of Contents and results of operations. However, if the conflict continues to worsen or intensify, any business interruptions or spillover effects could adversely affect our business and operations. We are unable to predict the full impact that global macroeconomic or other geopolitical factors will have on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition due to numerous uncertainties, including the actions that may be taken by government authorities across the US or other countries, changes in central bank policies and interest rates, rates of inflation, potential uncertainty with respect to the federal debt ceiling and budget and potential, government shutdowns related thereto, regional geopolitical conflicts, the impact to our customers, partners, and suppliers, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We monitor the following key metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Revenue We discuss revenue below under Components of Our Results of Operations. Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue $ 186,355 $ 133,393 Non-GAAP operating loss In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use non-GAAP operating loss as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP operating loss provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as this measure excludes, among other expenses, expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. Non-GAAP operating loss is calculated as GAAP operating loss adjusted to exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related compensation, stock-based compensation expense, and payroll tax on employee stock transactions. Non-GAAP operating loss has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, including GAAP operating loss. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP operating loss, differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP operating loss is presented for supplemental informational purposes only. Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Non-GAAP operating loss $ (11,081) $ (50,759) A reconciliation of non-GAAP operating loss to GAAP operating loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, is provided below: 24 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) GAAP operating loss $ (80,600) $ (115,377) Stock-based compensation expense 58,553 55,549 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 2,188 1,124 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 7,675 6,880 Acquisition-related compensation 1,103 1,065 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (11,081) $ (50,759) Annualized Recurring Revenue We believe that ARR is a key operating metric to measure our business because it is driven by our ability to acquire new subscription and consumption and usage-based customers, and to maintain and expand our relationship with existing customers. ARR represents the annualized revenue run rate of our subscription and consumption and usage-based agreements at the end of a reporting period, assuming contracts are renewed on their existing terms for customers that are under contracts with us. ARR is an operational metric and is not a non-GAAP metric. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates, usage, renewal rates, and other contractual terms. As of April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Annualized recurring revenue $ 762,214 $ 563,559 ARR grew 35% year-over-year to $762.2 million as of April 30, 2024, primarily due to high growth in the number of new customers purchasing our subscriptions and to additional purchases by existing customers. Customers with ARR of $100,000 or More We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers with ARR of $100,000 or more is an indicator of our market penetration and strategic demand for our platform. We define a customer as an entity that has an active subscription for access to our platform. We count MSPs, MSSPs, MDRs, and OEMs, who may purchase our products on behalf of multiple companies, as a single customer. We do not count our reseller or distributor channel partners as customers. As of April 30, 2024 2023 Customers with ARR of $100,000 or more 1,193 917 Customers with ARR of $100,000 or more grew 30% year-over-year to 1,193 as of April 30, 2024, primarily due to growth in the ARR of existing customers from additional purchases and to growth in the average size of purchases by new customers. Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain and expand our revenue generated from our existing customers is an indicator of the long-term value of our customer relationships and our potential future business opportunities. NRR measures the percentage change in our ARR derived from our customer base at a point in time. To calculate NRR, we first determine Prior Period ARR, which is ARR from the population of our customers as of 12 months prior to the end of a particular reporting period. We then calculate Net Retention ARR, which represents the total ARR at the end of a particular reporting period from the same set of customers that is used to determine Prior Period ARR. Net 25 Table of Contents Retention ARR includes any expansion, and is net of contraction and attrition associated with that set of customers. NRR represents the quotient obtained by dividing Net Retention ARR by Prior Period ARR. Our NRR remained in expansionary territory as of April 30, 2024, driven by existing customers adoption of additional endpoint licenses and adjacent platform solutions. A larger portion of our business mix was driven by new customers in 2024, which will open doors for platform adoption over time. We see significant long-term expansion potential based on high customer retention rates, expanding product categories, and early-stage adoption from our installed base. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from subscriptions to our Singularity Platform. Customers can extend the functionality of their subscription to our platform by subscribing to additional Singularity Modules. Subscriptions provide access to hosted software. The nature of our promise to the customer under the subscription is to provide protection for the duration of the contractual term and as such is considered as a series of distinct services. Our arrangements may include fixed consideration, variable consideration, or a combination of the two. Fixed consideration is recognized over the term of the arrangement or longer if the fixed consideration relates to a material right. Variable consideration in these arrangements is typically a function of transaction volume or another usage-based measure. Depending upon the structure of a particular arrangement, we (i) allocate the variable amount to each distinct service period within the series and recognize revenue as each distinct service period is performed (i.e., direct allocation), (ii) estimate total variable consideration at contract inception (giving consideration to any constraints that may apply and updating the estimates as new information becomes available) and recognize the total transaction price over the period to which it relates, or (iii) apply the right to invoice practical expedient and recognize revenue based on the amount invoiced to the customer during the period. Premium support and maintenance and other Singularity Modules are distinct from subscriptions and are recognized ratably over the term as the performance obligations are satisfied. We invoice our customers upfront upon signing for the entire term of the contract, periodically, or in arrears. Most of our subscription contracts have a term of one to three years. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in connection with the hosting and maintenance of our platform. Cost of revenue also consists of personnel-related costs associated with our customer support and services organization, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, software and subscription services used by our customer support and services team, inventory-related costs, and allocated overhead costs. Our third-party cloud infrastructure costs are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of endpoints per customer, the number of modules, and the incremental costs for storing additional data collected for such cloud modules. We plan to continue to invest in our platform infrastructure and additional resources in our customer support and services organization as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue from period to period. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated facilities and IT overhead costs. 26 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include consulting fees, software and subscription services, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform and modules. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to increase investments in our existing products and services. However, we anticipate research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over time, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. In addition, research and development expenses that qualify as internal-use software are capitalized, the amount of which may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee salaries, commissions, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, travel and entertainment related expenses, advertising, branding and marketing events, promotions, amortization of acquired customer relationships, and software and subscription services. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales commissions paid to our sales force and referral fees paid to independent third parties that are incremental to obtain a subscription contract. Such costs are capitalized and amortized over an estimated period of benefit of four years, and any such expenses paid for the renewal of a subscription are capitalized and amortized over the average contractual term of the renewal. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenue, further penetrate the market, and expand our global customer base, but to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and other expenses for our executive, finance, legal, people team, and facilities organizations. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting, other consulting, and professional services fees, software and subscription services, and other corporate expenses. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of the discount related to acquisition-related liabilities. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for (Benefit From) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. In connection with our global consolidated losses, we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and Israel deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue $ 186,355 $ 133,393 Cost of revenue(1) 50,137 42,583 Gross profit 136,218 90,810 Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 58,321 55,263 Sales and marketing(1) 115,830 99,171 General and administrative(1) 42,667 51,753 Total operating expenses 216,818 206,187 Loss from operations (80,600) (115,377) Interest income 12,082 10,535 Interest expense (36) (607) Other expense, net (39) (359) Loss before income taxes (68,593) (105,808) Provision for income taxes 1,512 1,061 Net loss $ (70,105) $ (106,869) __________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 4,869 $ 4,173 Research and development 17,465 14,790 Sales and marketing 18,074 12,596 General and administrative 18,145 23,990 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 58,553 $ 55,549 28 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 27 32 Gross profit 73 68 Operating expenses: Research and development 31 41 Sales and marketing 62 74 General and administrative 23 39 Restructuring Total operating expenses 116 155 Loss from operations (43) (86) Interest income 6 8 Interest expense Other expense, net Loss before income taxes (37) (79) Provision for income taxes 1 1 Net loss (38) % (80) % Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 186,355 $ 133,393 $ 52,962 40 % Revenue increased by $53.0 million primarily due to a combination of sales to new customers and sales of additional endpoints and modules to existing customers. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 50,137 $ 42,583 $ 7,554 18 % Gross profit $ 136,218 $ 90,810 $ 45,408 50 % Gross margin 73 % 68 % Cost of revenue increased by $7.6 million primarily due to a $4.5 million increase in allocated customer support costs which were mostly personnel-related expenses, a $1.2 million increase in cloud hosting usage charges to support our expanding business, a $0.8 million increase in amortization of capitalized internal use-software due to the continued investment in our platform, and a $0.5 million increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets in 29 Table of Contents connection with the PingSafe and Stride acquisitions. Gross margin increased to 73%, primarily due to revenue growth from existing and new customers outpacing growth in cost of revenue. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development expenses $ 58,321 $ 55,263 $ 3,058 6 % Research and development expenses increased by $3.1 million primarily due to an increase of $2.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense as a result of increased headcount and an increase of $1.5 million in allocated overhead costs. The increase is partially offset by $0.8 million decrease in general services expenses. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing expenses $ 115,830 $ 99,171 $ 16,659 17 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $16.7 million primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $13.0 million, including an increase of $5.5 million in stock-based compensation expense as a result of increased headcount. In addition, there was an increase in sales and marketing expenses of $3.8 million due to overall business growth and further investment in marketing activities. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 42,667 $ 51,753 $ (9,086) (18) % General and administrative expenses decreased by $9.1 million primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related expenses of $6.7 million, including a decrease of $5.8 million in stock-based compensation expense due to the stock modifications during the three months ended April 30, 2023 that did not recur in the current period. In addition, there was a decrease of $0.9 million in allocated overhead costs, and a $0.8 million decrease in office-related expenses. Interest Income, Interest Expense, and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 12,082 $ 10,535 $ 1,547 15 % Interest expense $ (36) $ (607) $ 571 (94) % Other expense, net $ (39) $ (359) $ 320 (89) % Interest income increased $1.5 million as a result of higher interest rates on investments. Interest expense decreased primarily due to a reduction in the amortization of the discount related to acquisition-related liabilities. The change in other expense, net is primarily due to net foreign currency exchange fluctuations. 30 Table of Contents Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 1,512 $ 1,061 $ 451 43 % The provision for income taxes increased for the three months ended April 30, 2024, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2023 primarily as a result of the increase in foreign taxes related to operations in international subsidiaries. We compute our tax provision for interim periods by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to year-to-date income from recurring operations and adjusting for discrete items arising in that quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from sales of equity securities, payments received from our customers, and borrowings under a now-terminated loan and security agreement, and we have generated operating losses, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of April 30, 2024 and January 31, 2024, respectively. We expect these and other operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We also expect to incur significant research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses over the next several years in connection with the continued development and expansion of our business. As of April 30, 2024 and January 31, 2024, our principal source of liquidity was cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. In the short term, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. In the long term beyond the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase third-party cloud infrastructure, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We have, and in the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We hold our cash, cash equivalents, and investments with a diverse group of banking partners. However, any instability in the U.S. or global banking system or relating to the federal budget may impact liquidity both in the short term and long term and may result in adverse impacts to our or our customers business, including in our customers ability to pay for our platform. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided (used in) operating activities $ 42,003 $ (28,059) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (106,264) $ 31,110 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 6,533 $ 9,762 31 Table of Contents Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, sales and marketing expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, and overhead expenses. We have generated negative cash flows from operating activities and have supplemented working capital through net proceeds from the sale of equity securities. Cash provided by (used in) operating activities primarily consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $42.0 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $70.1 million, offset by adjustments for non-cash items of $83.4 million and $28.7 million provided by net changes to our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $80.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash received from customers, a $3.9 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $2.4 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of invoices received from vendors. These amounts were partially offset by a $22.1 million decrease in deferred revenue, a $18.9 million decrease in accrued payroll and benefits, and a $15.2 million decrease in deferred contract acquisition costs. Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 was $28.1 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $106.9 million, and $6.7 million provided by net changes to our operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash items of $72.1 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $12.1 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, and a $10.9 million decrease in accrued payroll and benefits. These amounts were partially offset by a $23.6 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash received from customers, $3.2 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $2.2 million increase in deferred revenue resulting primarily from increased subscription contracts. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $106.3 million, consisting of $247.0 million of investment purchases, $61.6 million of net cash paid for the acquisitions of PingSafe and Stride, and a $7.4 million of capitalized internal-use software costs. These amounts were partially offset by $210.6 million of investment sales and maturities. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 was $31.1 million, consisting of $185.3 million of investment sales and maturities, partially offset by $150.6 million of investment purchases, and $2.9 million of capitalized internal-use software costs. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $6.5 million, primarily consisting of $6.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 was $9.8 million, entirely consisting of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical 32 Table of Contents experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report.