Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Sprint Nextel Corporation, including its subsidiaries, (Sprint, we, us, our or the Company) is a communications company offering a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses, government subscribers and resellers. The communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services and devices offered and the quality of service. As discussed below in Effects on our Wireless Business of Postpaid Subscriber Losses , the Company has experienced significant losses of subscribers in the critical postpaid wireless market since the third quarter 2006, but, as a result of steps taken to attract and retain such subscribers, has reduced net subscriber losses beginning in 2009. Description of the Company We are the third largest wireless communications company in the United States based on wireless revenue, one of the largest providers of wireline long distance services and one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic in the nation. Our services are provided through our ownership of extensive wireless networks, an all-digital global long distance network and a Tier 1 Internet backbone. We offer wireless and wireline voice and data transmission services to subscribers in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands under the Sprint corporate brand which includes our retail brands of Sprint , Nextel , Boost Mobile , Virgin Mobile and Assurance Wireless on networks that utilize third generation (3G) code division multiple access (CDMA), national push-to-talk integrated Digital Enhanced Network (iDEN), or internet protocol (IP) technologies. We also offer fourth generation (4G) services utilizing Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) technology through our mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) wholesale relationship with Clearwire Corporation and its subsidiary Clearwire Communications LLC (together "Clearwire"). Sprint 4G is currently available in 71 markets. We utilize these networks to offer our wireless and wireline subscribers differentiated products and services whether through the use of a single network or a combination of these networks. We offer wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid payment basis to retail subscribers and also on a wholesale and affiliate basis, which includes the sale of wireless services to resellers that utilize the Sprint network but are sold under the wholesaler's brand. We provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services to other communications companies and targeted business and consumer subscribers. In addition, we provide voice, data and IP communication services to our Wireless segment and IP and other services to cable Multiple System Operators (MSOs) that resell our local and long distance services and use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities primarily to residential end-user subscribers. Our business strategy is to be responsive to changing customer mobility demands by being innovative and differentiated in the marketplace. Our future growth plans and strategy revolve around achieving the following three key priorities: Improve the customer experience; Strengthen our brands; and Generate operating cash flow. We have reduced confusion over pricing plans and complex bills with our Simply Everything and Everything Data plans and our Any Mobile Anytime SM feature that offer savings compared to our competition. In addition to savings offered to consumers, Business Advantage pricing plans are available to our business subscribers who can also take advantage of Any Mobile Anytime SM with certain plans. To simplify and improve the customer experience, we introduced the Sprint Free Guarantee, which gives any customer opening a new line of service the chance to try Sprint for 30 days for free (excluding overages and premium services not included in price plans). In addition, we have continued to offer Ready Now, which trains our customers before they leave the store on how to use their mobile devices. For our business customers, we aim to increase their productivity by providing differentiated services that utilize the advantages of combining IP networks with wireless technology. This differentiation enables us to acquire and retain both wireline, wireless and combined wireline-wireless subscribers on our networks. We have also continued to focus on further improving customer care. We implemented initiatives that are designed to improve call center processes and procedures, and standardized our performance measures through various metrics, including customer satisfaction ratings with respect to customer care, first call resolution and calls per subscriber. Our product strategy is to provide our customers with a broad array of device selections and applications and services that run on these devices to meet the growing needs of customer mobility. In February we announced the first dual-touchscreen Android smartphone, the Kyocera Echo , which is now available, and in March we announced America's first 4G device with a 3D display, the HTC EVO 3D as well as the Nexus S 4G, which are expected to be available later this year. Our multi-functional device portfolio includes other 4G devices such as the HTC EVO Shift 4G, the Samsung Epic 4G and the HTC EVO 4G, which can all act as mobile hotspots for a select number of wireless fidelity (WiFi) enabled devices. Our portfolio also includes the Motorola i1, which is the world's first Direct Connect Android-powered smartphone, as well as the LG Optimus, the BlackBerry Curve and BlackBerry Style , the Samsung Transform , the Rumor Touch from LG and the HTC Arrive . Our mobile broadband portfolio consists of devices such as the Sierra Wireless Overdrive Pro 3G/4G Mobile 18 Table of Contents Hotspot, which allows the connection of up to eight WiFi enabled devices and the MiFi 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot by Novatel Wireless, which allows connections of up to five devices as well as the Samsung Galaxy Tab and two new 4G tablets that will be available this summer, the BlackBerry 4G PlayBook and the HTC EVO View 4G . We support the open development of applications, content and devices on our network platforms. We also enable a variety of business and consumer third-party partnerships through our portfolio of machine-to-machine solutions on a postpaid and wholesale basis. The machine-to-machine solutions portfolio provides a secure, real-time and reliable wireless two-way data connection across a broad range of devices including original equipment manufacturer devices and after-market in-vehicle connectivity and Electric Vehicle charging stations, point-of-sale systems, kiosks and vending machines, asset tracking, digital signage, security, Smartgrid/utilities, medical equipment and a variety of other consumer electronics and appliances. Our prepaid portfolio currently includes multiple brands, each designed to appeal to specific customer segments. Boost Mobile serves customers who are voice and text messaging-centric with its popular $50 Monthly Unlimited plan with Shrinkage service where bills are reduced after six on-time payments. Virgin Mobile serves customers who are device and data-oriented with Beyond Talk plans and our broadband plan, Broadband2Go, that offer consumers control, flexibility and connectivity through various communication vehicles. Assurance Wireless provides eligible customers, who meet income requirements or are receiving government assistance, with a free wireless phone and 250 free minutes of national, local, and long-distance monthly service. We have focused our wholesale business as a reseller of new converged services that leverage the Sprint network but are sold under the wholesaler's brand by providing a suite of integrated and customizable value-added solutions focused on assisting our customers to improve their business. We have maintained competitive pricing in the marketplace, made it easier for our wholesalers to acquire access and resell our services by bundling wireless and wireline services and focused our attention to partners with existing distribution channels. In addition, we have strengthened our sales efforts and expanded to new markets in the rapidly growing machine-to-machine space. In addition to our brand and customer-oriented goals, we continue to focus on generating increased operating cash flow through competitive rate plans for postpaid and prepaid subscribers, multi-branded strategies and effectively managing our cost structure to align with the reduced revenues from fewer postpaid subscribers. We believe these actions, as well as our ability to stabilize consolidated revenues resulting from our growth in prepaid subscribers and improvements in postpaid subscriber trends, will allow us to continue to maintain an adequate cash position. Network Vision In December 2010, we announced Network Vision, a multi-year network infrastructure initiative intended to provide customers with an enhanced network experience by improving voice quality, coverage and data speeds, while enhancing network flexibility, reducing operating costs, and improving environmental sustainability by enabling the aggregation of multiple spectrum bands onto a single multi-mode base station. In addition to implementing these multi-mode base stations, this plan encompasses next-generation push-to-talk technology with broadband capabilities and the integration of multi-mode chipsets into smartphones, tablets and other broadband devices, including machine-to-machine capabilities. Consolidating and optimizing the use of our 800 MHz, 1.9GHz and potentially other spectrum owned by third-parties into multi-mode stations should allow us to repurpose spectrum to enhance coverage, particularly around the in-building experience. The multi-mode technology also utilizes software-based solutions with interchangeable hardware to provide greater network flexibility, which allows for opportunities to evaluate new 4G technologies to better utilize our available spectrum. The first stages of equipment testing began in the first quarter of 2011 and, if successful, deployment is expected in the latter half of 2011 with an expected completion time of anywhere from three to five years. As Network Vision is implemented, the size and power required to operate the network is expected to be reduced. We expect the plan to bring financial benefit to the Company through convergence to one common network, which is expected to reduce network maintenance and operating costs through capital efficiencies, reduced energy costs, lower roaming expenses, backhaul savings and the eventual reduction in total cell sites and also by reducing the cost of handling expanded data traffic. We have entered into agreements relating to Network Vision to deploy a cost-effective, innovative network to enhance the voice quality and data speeds by supporting multiple technologies and multiple spectrum bands on one network. The successful testing and deployment related to these changes in technology will result in incremental charges during the period of implementation including, but not limited to, an increase in depreciation and amortization associated with existing assets, such as iDEN based assets, due to changes in our estimates of the remaining useful lives of long-lived assets, and the expected timing of asset retirement obligations, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The successful testing of push-to-talk technology on the CDMA network as part of the deployment of Network Vision in our test markets in 2011 would result in accelerated depreciation and amortization expense expected to range from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion in total if implementation can be completed by the end of 2014. Successful completion of Network Vision earlier or later than the end of 2014 would result in an acceleration or delay, respectively, of these depreciation and amortization costs. Until the uncertainties related to the testing, such as timing and coverage, and deployment of the push-to-talk technology are resolved, the estimated remaining useful lives of the assets expected to be impacted remain unchanged. 19 Table of Contents Effects on our Wireless Business of Postpaid Subscriber Losses As shown by the table below under Results of Operations, Wireless segment earnings represents approximately 85% of Sprint's total consolidated segment earnings. The wireless industry is subject to competition to acquire and retain subscribers of wireless services. Most markets in which we operate have high rates of penetration for wireless services. Wireless carriers accordingly must attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from competitors rather than from first time subscribers. Within the Wireless segment, postpaid wireless services represent the most significant contributors to earnings, and are driven by the number of postpaid subscribers to our services, as well as the average revenue per subscriber or user (ARPU). To address and reduce postpaid subscriber losses, we have taken initiatives to strengthen the Sprint brand and continue to increase market awareness of the improvements that have been achieved in the customer experience, including the speed and dependability of our networks. We have also introduced new devices improving our overall lineup and providing a competitive portfolio for customer selection, as well as competitive new rate plans providing simplicity and value. We believe these actions had a favorable impact on net postpaid subscriber losses in 2009 and 2010, and we expect these to further improve our subscriber results. The Company has demonstrated significant improvement in net postpaid subscriber results subsequent to the first quarter 2009. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 , net postpaid subscriber losses of 114,000 represent an improvement of 464,000 , or 80% compared to the same period one year ago and prepaid net additions of 846,000 represent an improvement of 498,000 , or 143% for the same period. As a result, wireless retail service revenue has begun to stabilize primarily due to the increased service revenue associated with our prepaid wireless offerings. The net losses of postpaid subscribers in the first quarter 2011 can be expected to cause wireless postpaid service revenue for the remainder of the year to be approximately $13 million lower; however, this effect is offset by net additions of prepaid subscribers in the first quarter 2011 which can be expected to cause wireless prepaid service revenue for the remainder of the year to be $147 million higher if these prepaid subscribers remain with the Company throughout 2011. If our trend of improved postpaid subscriber results does not continue, it could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in 2011 and beyond. The Company believes the actions that have been taken, as described above, and that continue to be taken in marketing, customer service, device offerings, and network quality, should continue to improve net postpaid subscriber results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (in millions) Wireless segment earnings $ 1,283 $ 1,196 Wireline segment earnings 228 279 Corporate, other and eliminations 3 3 Consolidated segment earnings 1,514 1,478 Depreciation and amortization (1,255 ) (1,675 ) Other, net 17 Operating income (loss) 259 (180 ) Interest expense (249 ) (372 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated investments and other, net (412 ) (242 ) Income tax expense (37 ) (71 ) Net loss $ (439 ) $ (865 ) Consolidated segment earnings increased $36 million , or 2% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to March 31, 2010 . Consolidated segment earnings consist of our Wireless and Wireline segments, which are discussed below, and Corporate, other and eliminations. 20 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Expense During the first quarter 2011, Sprint completed its annual study of estimated useful lives of depreciable assets, which reflects a reduction in the replacement rate of capital additions and was a primary factor for a decrease to depreciation expense of $153 million , or 12% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 from the same period in 2010 . However, we expect depreciation expense to begin to increase over the next several years as a result of increased capital expenditures related to Network Vision as those assets are placed into service. In addition, the successful testing of push-to-talk technology on the CDMA network as part of the deployment of Network Vision in our test markets in 2011 would result in a shortening of remaining useful lives of certain long-lived assets resulting in accelerated depreciation and amortization expense expected to range from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion in total if implementation can be completed by the end of 2014. Amortization expense declined $267 million , or 67% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 from the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 , primarily due to the absence of amortization for customer relationship intangible assets related to the 2005 acquisition of Nextel which became fully amortized in 2010 . Customer relationships are amortized using the sum-of-the-years'-digits method, resulting in higher amortization rates in early periods that decline over time. Other, net Other, net recognized in the first quarter of 2010 consisted of a benefit in severance and exit costs primarily related to a reduction in the estimate of severance costs associated with our workforce reduction announced in November 2009. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $123 million , or 33% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 , primarily due to a $96 million increase in the amount of interest capitalized. The increase in capitalized interest was related to our plan to deploy certain spectrum licenses as part of Network Vision that were not previously utilized. We expect full year capitalized interest related to these spectrum licenses to be approximately $400 million. Additionally, interest expense decreased by $21 million as a result of the repayment of $1.65 billion of Sprint Capital Corporation 7.625% senior notes in January 2011. The effective interest rate on the weighted average long-term debt balance of $19.0 billion and $21.1 billion was 7.2% and 7.0% for the first quarter 2011 and 2010 , respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on the Company's financing activities. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Investments and Other, net This item consists mainly of our proportionate share of losses from our equity method investments and also includes other miscellaneous income/(expense). Equity losses associated with the investment in Clearwire consists of Sprint's share of Clearwire's net loss and other adjustments such as gains or losses associated with the dilution of Sprint's ownership interest resulting from Clearwire's equity issuances. Equity in losses from Clearwire were $418 million and $250 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Sprint's equity in losses from Clearwire for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 includes approximately $92 million of charges associated with Clearwire's abandonment of network projects that no longer meet their strategic network plans. Clearwire owns and operates a next generation mobile broadband network that provides high-speed residential and mobile internet access services and residential voice services in communities throughout the country. Clearwire is an early stage company, and as such, has heavily invested in building its network and acquiring other assets necessary to expand the business during 2009 and 2010, which has resulted in increased operating losses and reduced liquidity. We expect Clearwire to continue to generate significant net losses in the near term as it executes its business plan. Income Tax Expense The consolidated effective tax rate was an expense of approximately 9% during each of the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 . The income tax expense for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 includes a $196 million and $365 million net increase to the valuation allowance for federal and state deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards generated during the periods, respectively. We do not expect to record significant tax benefits on future net operating losses until our circumstances justify the recognition of such benefits. Additional information related to items impacting the effective tax rates can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Table of Contents Segment Earnings - Wireless Wireless segment earnings are primarily a function of wireless service revenue, costs to acquire subscribers, network and interconnection costs to serve those subscribers and other Wireless segment operating expenses. Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the sale of wireless services, the sale of wireless devices and accessories and the sale of wholesale and other services. The costs to acquire our subscribers include the net cost at which we sell our devices, referred to as equipment net subsidy, as well as the marketing and sales costs incurred to attract those subscribers. Network costs primarily represent switch and cell site costs and interconnection costs, which generally consist of per-minute usage fees and roaming fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireless segment include the costs to operate our customer care organization and administrative support. Wireless service revenue, costs to acquire subscribers, and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our subscriber base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short term with these changes. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireless segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 . Three Months Ended March 31, Wireless Earnings 2011 2010 (in millions) Postpaid $ 5,571 $ 5,539 Prepaid 1,078 893 Retail service revenue 6,649 6,432 Wholesale, affiliate and other revenue 69 49 Total service revenue 6,718 6,481 Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (2,047 ) (2,047 ) Service gross margin 4,671 4,434 Service gross margin percentage 70 % 68 % Equipment revenue 695 567 Cost of products (1,812 ) (1,566 ) Equipment net subsidy (1,117 ) (999 ) Equipment net subsidy percentage (161 )% (176 )% Selling, general and administrative expense (2,271 ) (2,239 ) Wireless segment earnings $ 1,283 $ 1,196 Service Revenue Service revenue consists of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges and miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, roaming, equipment protection, late payment and early termination charges and certain regulatory related fees, net of service credits. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of: revenue generated from each subscriber, which in turn is a function of the types and amount of services utilized by each subscriber and the rates charged for those services; and the number of subscribers that we serve, which in turn is a function of our ability to acquire new and retain existing subscribers. Retail comprises those subscribers to whom Sprint directly provides wireless services, whether those services are provided on a postpaid or a prepaid basis. Retail service revenue increased $217 million , or 3% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 . The increase in retail service revenue was primarily driven by attracting more subscribers to our Boost and Virgin Mobile brands as a result of the increased availability of smartphones. Growth from the Assurance Wireless brand, as a result of new market launches, also contributed to the increase in retail service revenue. In addition, a slight increase in postpaid service revenue reflects an increase related to our premium data add-on required for all smartphones, greater popularity of unlimited and bundled plans, as well as growth in the number of subscribers who are insuring more expensive smartphones. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in overage charges on voice and data. 22 Table of Contents Wholesale and affiliates are those subscribers who are served through 3G MVNO and affiliate relationships and other arrangements through which wireless services are sold by Sprint to other companies that resell those services to subscribers. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues increased $20 million , or 41% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily as a result of growth in our 3G MVNO relationships. Approximately 38% of our wholesale and affiliate subscribers represent a growing number of devices that utilize our network through our machine-to-machine solutions. These devices generate revenue from usage which varies depending on the solution being utilized. Average revenue per subscriber for machine-to-machine solutions is generally significantly lower than revenue from other wholesale and affiliate subscribers; however, the cost to service these customers is also lower resulting in a higher profit margin as a percent of revenue. Average Monthly Service Revenue per Subscriber and Subscriber Trends The table below summarizes average number of retail subscribers and average revenue per subscriber for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 . Additional information about the number of subscribers, net additions to subscribers, average monthly service revenue per subscriber and average rates of monthly postpaid and prepaid customer churn for each quarter since the first quarter 2010 may be found in the table on the following page. Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (subscribers in thousands) Average postpaid subscribers (1) 33,056 33,638 Average prepaid subscribers (1) 12,658 10,837 Average monthly service revenue per subscriber (2) : Postpaid $ 56 $ 55 Prepaid 28 27 Average retail 48 48 ________ (1) Average subscribers include subscribers acquired through business combinations prospectively from the date of acquisition. Average prepaid subscribers for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 are exclusive of 49,000 subscribers transferred to wholesale and affiliates as a result of a sale and transfer of customers to an affiliate in the third quarter 2010. (2) Average monthly service revenue per subscriber is calculated by dividing service revenue by the sum of the average number of subscribers. Changes in average monthly service revenue reflect subscribers who change rate plans, the level of voice and data usage, the amount of service credits which are offered to subscribers, plus the net effect of average monthly revenue generated by new subscribers and deactivating subscribers. Average monthly postpaid service revenue per subscriber for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 increased as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to increased revenues for premium data add-ons, greater popularity of unlimited and bundled plans, as well as increased revenue resulting from the growth in the number of subscribers who are insuring more expensive smartphones. This was partially offset by decreases in overage revenues associated with the increase in unlimited and bundled plans. Average monthly prepaid service revenue per subscriber for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 increased compared to the same period in 2010 due to the migration of prepaid customers to higher priced plans as a result of the increased availability of smartphones. 23 Table of Contents The following table shows (a) net additions (losses) of wireless subscribers for each quarter beginning with the first quarter 2010, (b) our total subscribers as of the end of each quarterly period, (c) our average monthly postpaid and prepaid service revenue per subscriber and (d) our average rates of monthly postpaid and prepaid customer churn. March 31, 2010 June 30, 2010 September 30, 2010 December 31, 2010 March 31, 2011 Net additions (losses) (in thousands) Postpaid (1) : iDEN (447 ) (364 ) (383 ) (395 ) (367 ) CDMA (2) (131 ) 136 276 453 253 Total retail postpaid (578 ) (228 ) (107 ) 58 (114 ) Prepaid: iDEN (44 ) (465 ) (700 ) (768 ) (560 ) CDMA 392 638 1,171 1,414 1,406 Total retail prepaid 348 173 471 646 846 Wholesale and affiliates 155 166 280 393 389 Total Wireless (75 ) 111 644 1,097 1,121 End of period subscribers (in thousands) Postpaid: iDEN 6,808 6,444 6,061 5,666 5,299 CDMA (2) 26,581 26,717 26,993 27,446 27,699 Total retail postpaid 33,389 33,161 33,054 33,112 32,998 Prepaid: iDEN 5,675 5,210 4,510 3,742 3,182 CDMA (3) 5,361 5,999 7,121 8,535 9,941 Total retail prepaid 11,036 11,209 11,631 12,277 13,123 Wholesale and affiliates (3)(4) 3,633 3,799 4,128 4,521 4,910 Total Wireless 48,058 48,169 48,813 49,910 51,031 Average monthly service revenue per subscriber Retail Postpaid $ 55 $ 55 $ 55 $ 55 $ 56 Retail Prepaid $ 27 $ 28 $ 28 $ 28 $ 28 Monthly customer churn rate (5) Retail postpaid 2.15 % 1.85 % 1.93 % 1.86 % 1.81 % Retail prepaid 5.74 % 5.61 % 5.32 % 4.93 % 4.36 % ________ (1) Postpaid subscriber net additions by platform (iDEN and CDMA) have been modified for all periods presented to include subscribers that migrated between network technologies, which were previously excluded. This change in presentation of previously reported amounts had no effect on total retail postpaid net additions or other subscriber related performance metrics in any prior periods and better reflects Sprint's trend of subscriber activity by network technology. (2) Includes subscribers with PowerSource devices, which operate seamlessly between our CDMA and iDEN networks. (3) Reflects the third quarter 2010 transfer of 49,000 Wholesale and affiliates subscribers from Prepaid as a result of a sale and transfer of customers to an affiliate. (4) Subscribers through some of our MVNO relationships have inactivity either in voice usage or primarily as a result of the nature of the device, where activity only occurs when data retrieval is initiated by the end-user and may occur infrequently. Although we continue to provide these customers access to our network through our MVNO relationships, approximately 1.2 million subscribers through these MVNO relationships have been inactive for at least six months, with no associated revenue as of March 31, 2011. (5) Churn is calculated by dividing net subscriber deactivations for the quarter by the sum of the average number of subscribers for each month in the quarter. For postpaid accounts comprising multiple subscribers, such as family plans and enterprise accounts, net deactivations are defined as deactivations in excess of customer activations in a particular account within 30 days. Postpaid and Prepaid churn consist of both voluntary churn, where the subscriber makes his or her own determination to cease being a customer, and involuntary churn, where the customer's service is terminated due to a lack of payment or other reasons. 24 Table of Contents Retail Postpaid Subscribers We lost 114,000 net postpaid subscribers during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to losing 578,000 net postpaid subscribers during the same period in 2010 . Our improvement in net postpaid subscriber losses of 464,000 can be attributed to our improvements in retail postpaid gross additions and lower postpaid churn resulting from simplified and value-driven bundled offers, a more competitive device line-up, as well as our continued improvements in overall customer experience and customer care satisfaction. Retail Prepaid Subscribers We added 846,000 net prepaid subscribers during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to adding 348,000 net prepaid subscribers for the same period in 2010 . Over half of our net prepaid subscriber additions in the first quarter 2011 were driven by net additions from the Assurance Wireless brand primarily as a result of new market launches and increased advertising and promotions. The remaining subscriber net additions were as a result of more popular smartphones being offered by our Boost Mobile and Virgin Mobile brands. Prepaid subscribers are generally deactivated between 60 days and up to 150 days from the date of activation or replenishment; however, prior to account deactivation, targeted retention programs can be offered to qualifying subscribers to maintain ongoing service by providing up to an additional 150 days to make a replenishment. Subscribers targeted through these retention offers are not included in the calculation of churn until their retention offer expires without a replenishment to their account. As a result, end of period prepaid subscribers include subscribers engaged in these retention programs. Retention offers to these targeted subscribers decreased as a percentage of our total prepaid subscriber base as of March 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 . Wholesale and Affiliate Subscribers Wholesale and affiliate subscribers represent customers that are served on our networks through companies that resell our services to their subscribers, customers residing in affiliate territories and subscribers using our machine-to-machine solutions primarily representing devices that utilize our network. We added 389,000 net wholesale and affiliate subscribers during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to 155,000 net wholesale and affiliate subscriber additions for the same period in 2010 . The subscriber net additions were primarily driven by net additions from the Lifeline program now being offered through our MVNO's, which is equivalent to our Assurance Wireless offering. Of the 4.9 million total subscribers included in wholesale and affiliate, approximately 38% represent machine-to-machine activities. Cost of Services Cost of services consists primarily of: costs to operate and maintain our CDMA and iDEN networks, including direct switch and cell site costs, such as rent, utilities, maintenance, labor costs associated with network employees and spectrum frequency leasing costs; fixed and variable interconnection costs, the fixed component of which consists of monthly flat-rate fees for facilities leased from local exchange carriers based on the number of cell sites and switches in service in a particular period and the related equipment installed at each site, and the variable component of which generally consists of per-minute use fees charged by wireline providers for calls terminating on their networks, which fluctuate in relation to the level and duration of those terminating calls; long distance costs paid to the Wireline segment; costs to service and repair devices; regulatory fees; roaming fees paid to other carriers; and fixed and variable costs relating to payments to third parties for the use of their proprietary data applications, such as messaging, music, TV and navigation services by our subscribers. Cost of services remained relatively flat in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 . Service and repair costs continue to decline by focusing on device repairs and refurbishment rather than utilizing new devices, combined with a decrease in long distance network costs as a result of lower market rates and a decline in payments to third party vendors providing premium services as a result of changing from usage based payments to flat rates. These declines were offset by increased roaming due to higher 3G and 4G data usage. 25 Table of Contents Equipment Net Subsidy We recognize equipment revenue and corresponding costs of devices when title of the device passes to the dealer or end-user customer. Our marketing plans assume that devices typically will be sold at prices below cost, which is consistent with industry practice, as subscriber retention efforts often include providing incentives to subscribers such as offering new devices at discounted prices. We reduce equipment revenue for these discounts offered directly to the customer, or for certain payments to third-party dealers to reimburse the dealer for point of sale discounts that are offered to the end-user subscriber. Additionally, the cost of devices is reduced by any rebates that are earned from the supplier. Cost of products (primarily devices and accessories) also include order fulfillment related expenses and write-downs of device and related accessory inventory for shrinkage and obsolescence. Equipment cost in excess of the revenue generated from equipment sales is referred to in the industry as equipment net subsidy. Equipment revenue increased $128 million , or 23% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 and cost of products increased $246 million , or 16% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 . The increase in both equipment revenue and cost of products is primarily due to an increase in average sales price and cost of postpaid devices sold, as well as an increase in the number of prepaid devices sold with a greater mix of devices that have a higher average sales price and cost. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions paid to our indirect dealers, third-party distributors and retail sales force for new device activations and upgrades, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our retail sales force, marketing employees, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and administrative support activities, including collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development. Sales and marketing expense increased $143 million , or 12% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to the additional costs associated with our increase in subscriber gross additions combined with an increase in marketing expenditures primarily related to our prepaid brands. General and administrative costs decreased $111 million , or 11% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 , reflecting a reduction in customer care costs, a decrease in bad debt expense and reductions in prepaid integration costs incurred in 2010 but not in 2011 associated with our acquisitions. Customer care costs decreased $43 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 as a result of customer care quality initiatives that have resulted in a reduction in calls per subscriber, which allowed for further optimization of call center resources. Bad debt expense was $76 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 representing a $31 million decrease, as compared to bad debt expense of $107 million in the first quarter 2010 . The reduction in bad debt expense primarily reflects improvement in the aging of accounts receivable outstanding greater than 60 days. We reassess our allowance for doubtful accounts quarterly. Changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts are largely attributable to credit policies established for subscribers and analysis of historical collection experience. Our mix of prime postpaid subscribers to total postpaid subscribers was 83% as of March 31, 2011 compared to 84% as of March 31, 2010 . Segment Earnings - Wireline We provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services to other communications companies and targeted business and consumer subscribers. In addition, we provide voice, data and IP communication services to our Wireless segment and IP and other services to cable MSOs that resell our local and long distance services and use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities primarily to residential end-user subscribers. We are one of the nation's largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital global long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. These services and products include domestic and international data communications using various protocols such as multiprotocol label switching technologies (MPLS), IP, managed network services, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Session Initiated Protocol (SIP) and traditional voice services. Our IP services can also be combined with wireless services. Such services include our Sprint Mobile Integration service which enables a wireless handset to operate as part of a subscriber's wireline voice network and our DataLink SM service, which uses our wireless networks to connect a subscriber location into their primarily wireline wide-area IP/MPLS data network, making it easy for businesses to adapt their network to changing business requirements. In addition to providing services to our business customers, the wireline network is carrying increasing amounts of voice and data traffic for our Wireless segment as a result of growing usage by those wireless customers. 26 Table of Contents We continue to assess the portfolio of services provided by our Wireline business and are focusing our efforts on IP-based services and de-emphasizing stand-alone voice services and non-IP-based data services. We also provide wholesale voice local and long distance services to cable MSOs, which they offer as part of their bundled service offerings, as well as traditional voice and data services for their enterprise use. However, the digital voice services we provide to some of our MSO's have become large enough in scale that they have decided to in-source these services. We also continue to provide voice services to residential consumers. Our Wireline segment markets and sells its services primarily through direct sales representatives. Wireline segment earnings are primarily a function of wireline service revenue, network and interconnection costs and other Wireline segment operating expenses. Network costs primarily represent special access costs and interconnection costs which generally consist of domestic and international per-minute usage fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireline segment include the costs to operate our customer care and billing organizations in addition to administrative support. Wireline service revenue, and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our customer base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short term with the changes in our customer usage. Our wireline services provided to our Wireless segment are generally accounted for based on market rates which we believe approximate fair value. The Company generally re-establishes these rates at the beginning of each fiscal year. Over the past several years, there has been an industry wide trend of lower rates due to increased competition from other wireline and wireless communications companies as well as cable and internet service providers. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireline segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 . Three Months Ended March 31, Wireline Earnings 2011 2010 (in millions) Voice $ 486 $ 585 Data 116 138 Internet 497 553 Other 21 21 Total net service revenue 1,120 1,297 Cost of services and products (759 ) (846 ) Service gross margin 361 451 Service gross margin percentage 32 % 35 % Selling, general and administrative expense (133 ) (172 ) Wireline segment earnings $ 228 $ 279 Wireline Revenue Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased $99 million , or 17% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily driven by volume declines due to customer churn as well as overall price declines of which $24 million is related to decline in prices for the sale of services to our Wireless segment. Voice revenues generated from the sale of services to our Wireless segment represented 31 % of total voice revenues for the first quarter 2011 as compared to 30 % for the first quarter 2010 . Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of data services, including asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), frame relay and managed network services. Data revenues decreased $22 million , or 16% , for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 due to declines in frame relay and ATM services as subscribers migrated to IP-based technologies. Data revenues generated from the provision of services to the Wireless segment represented 32 % of total data revenue in the first quarter 2011 as compared to 25 % in the first quarter 2010 . Internet Revenues Internet revenues reflect sales of IP-based data services, including MPLS, VoIP and SIP. Internet revenues decreased $56 million , or 10% , for the first quarter 2011 as compared to the first quarter 2010 . The process of in-sourcing their digital voice products by some MSO's resulted in a $22 million decrease. Internet revenues generated from the provision of services to the Wireless segment declined by $19 million due to rate reductions and represented 6 % of total Internet revenues in the first quarter 2011 as compared to 9 % in the first quarter 2010 . In addition, revenue slightly decreased due to a decline in new IP customers with lower market rates as a result of increased competition. Other Revenues Other revenues primarily consist of sales of customer premises equipment (CPE) and remained relatively flat in the first quarter 2011 as compared to the first quarter 2010 . 27 Table of Contents Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic subscribers, costs to operate and maintain our networks and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products decreased $87 million , or 10% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 primarily due to declining voice volumes and a shift in mix to lower cost products as a result of the migration from data to IP-based technologies. Service gross margin percentage decreased from 35% in the first quarter 2010 to 32% in the first quarter 2011 primarily as a result of a decrease in net service revenue partially offset by a decrease in cost of services and products. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $39 million , or 23% , in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 . The decreases were primarily due to a reduction in employee headcount and a decline in the use of outside services and maintenance as part of our cost cutting initiatives. Total selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net services revenue was 12% in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to 13% in the same period in 2010 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flow Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 919 $ 1,122 Net cash used in investing activities (781 ) (565 ) Net cash used in financing activities (1,653 ) (3 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $919 million in the first quarter 2011 decreased $203 million from the same period in 2010 . The decrease resulted from an increase in vendor and labor-related payments of $563 million, which primarily related to an increase in the average cost of postpaid devices sold and an increase in the number and average cost of prepaid devices, as well as the $100 million pension contribution payment made during the first quarter 2011. This was offset by $271 million of increased cash received from customers due to increases in total subscriber net additions and $103 million reduction in interest expense, of which $96 million was associated with interest capitalization as a result of Network Vision. Subscriber revenue earned but not billed represented about 10% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. We also expect to make additional pension contributions totaling approximately $35 million for the rest of 2011. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first quarter 2011 increased by $216 million from 2010 , due to increases of $340 million in purchases of short-term investments and $139 million in capital expenditures. Of the $139 million increase in capital expenditures, $96 million was due to the recognition of capitalized interest on qualifying activities related to Network Vision primarily related to the carrying value of spectrum licenses not yet placed in service. These were offset by increases of $196 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments and a decrease of $41 million in expenditures related to FCC licenses as determined by specific operations requirements of the Report and Order. We also made a $53 million payment for our third installment of our investment in Clearwire in the first quarter of 2010. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.65 billion during the first quarter 2011 compared to $3 million for the same period in 2010 . The increase in the first quarter of 2011 was primarily due to the repayment of $1.65 billion of Sprint Capital Corporation 7.625% senior notes. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity As of March 31, 2011 , our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $4.0 billion as compared to $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2010 . As of March 31, 2011 , $1.3 billion in letters of credit, including a $1.2 billion letter of credit required by the Report and Order to reconfigure the 800 MHz band, were outstanding under our $2.1 billion revolving bank credit facility. As a result of the outstanding letters of credit, which directly reduce the availability of the revolving bank credit facility, we had $800 million of borrowing capacity available under our revolving bank credit facility as of March 31, 2011 . Accordingly, Sprint's liquidity as of March 31, 2011 , including cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility was $4.8 billion . On January 31, 2011, $1.65 billion of Sprint Capital Corporation 7.625% senior notes were repaid upon maturity. Also, in January 2011, we amended $500 million of our $750 million Export Development Canada (EDC) loan to extend the maturity date from 2012 to 2015. The remaining $250 million related to EDC, in addition to $2.0 billion of Sprint Capital Corporation 8.375% senior notes will mature in March 2012. The terms and conditions of our revolving bank credit facility require the ratio of total indebtedness to trailing four quarters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other non-recurring items, as defined by the credit facility (adjusted EBITDA), to be no more than 4.5 to 1.0. Beginning in April 2012, the ratio will be reduced to 4.25 to 1.0, and further reduced to 4.0 to 1.0 in January 2013. As of March 31, 2011 , the ratio was 3.4 to 1.0 as compared to 3.7 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2010 resulting from our reduction of total indebtedness during the quarter. Under this revolving bank credit facility, we are currently restricted from paying cash dividends because our ratio of total indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA exceeds 2.5 to 1.0. The terms of the revolving bank credit facility provide for an interest rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), plus a margin of between 2.75% and 3.50%, depending on our debt ratings. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries have guaranteed the revolving bank credit facility. A default under our borrowings could trigger defaults under our other debt obligations, which in turn could result in the maturities being accelerated. Certain indentures that govern our outstanding notes also require compliance with various covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness and liens by the Company and its subsidiaries, as defined by the terms of the indentures. As of March 31, 2011 , we own a 54% economic interest in Clearwire. As a result, Clearwire could be considered a subsidiary under certain agreements relating to our indebtedness. Whether Clearwire could be considered a subsidiary under our debt agreements is subject to interpretation. In December 2010, as a result of an amendment to the Clearwire equityholders' agreement, Sprint obtained the right to unilaterally surrender voting securities to reduce its voting security percentage below 50% , which could eliminate the potential for Clearwire to be considered a subsidiary of Sprint. Certain actions or defaults by Clearwire would, if viewed as a subsidiary, result in a breach of covenants, including potential cross-default provisions, under certain agreements relating to our indebtedness. However, we believe the unilateral rights obtained in December significantly mitigate the possibility of an event that would cross-default against Sprint's debt obligations. We expect to remain in compliance with our covenants through at least the end of 2012, although there can be no assurance that we will do so. Although we expect to improve our postpaid subscriber results, if we do not meet our plan, depending on the severity of any difference in actual subscriber results versus what we currently anticipate, it is possible that we would not remain in compliance with our covenants or be able to meet our debt service obligations, which could result in acceleration of our indebtedness. If such unforeseen events occur, we may engage with our lenders to obtain appropriate waivers or amendments of our credit facilities or refinance borrowings, although there is no assurance we would be successful in any of these actions. Sprint's current liquidity position makes it likely that we will be able to meet our debt service requirements and other funding needs currently identified through at least the end of 2012 by using our anticipated cash flows from operating activities as well as our cash and cash equivalents on hand. In addition, we also have available the remaining borrowing capacity under our revolving bank credit facility. Nevertheless, if we are unable to continue to reduce the rate of losses of postpaid subscribers, it could have a significant negative impact on cash provided by operating activities and our liquidity in future years. In determining that we expect to meet our funding needs through at least 2012, we have considered: expenses relating to our operations; anticipated levels of capital expenditures, including the capacity and upgrading of our networks and the deployment of new technologies in our networks, and FCC license acquisitions; anticipated payments under the Report and Order, as supplemented; any additional contributions we may make to our pension plan; scheduled debt service requirements; any additional investment we may choose to make in Clearwire; and other future contractual obligations and general corporate expenditures. 29 Table of Contents Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash and cash equivalents and borrowings available under our existing revolving credit facility. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to fund our capital needs from outside sources is ultimately affected by the overall capacity and terms of the banking and securities markets, as well as our performance and our credit ratings. Given our recent financial performance as well as the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable cost of capital. As of April 21, 2011, Moody's Investor Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings had assigned the following credit ratings to certain of our outstanding obligations: Rating Rating Agency Senior Unsecured Bank Credit Facility Senior Unsecured Debt Outlook Moody's Baa3 B1 Negative Standard and Poor's Not Rated BB- Negative Fitch BB- BB- Negative Downgrades of our current ratings do not accelerate scheduled principal payments of our existing debt. However, downgrades may cause us to incur higher interest costs on our credit facilities and future borrowings, if any, and could negatively impact our access to the public capital markets. As of March 31, 2011 , we had working capital of $175 million compared to $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2010 . The decrease in working capital is primarily due to the current portion of long-term debt as of March 31, 2011 , offset by other activity in current assets and liabilities during the quarter. CURRENT BUSINESS OUTLOOK We endeavor to both add new and retain our existing wireless subscribers in order to reverse the net loss in postpaid wireless subscribers that we have experienced. We expect to improve our subscriber trends by continuing to improve the customer experience and through offers which provide value, simplicity and productivity. Given the current economic environment, the difficulties the economic uncertainties create in forecasting, as well as the inherent uncertainties in predicting future customer behavior, we are unable to forecast with assurance the net retail postpaid subscriber results we will experience during 2011 or thereafter. However, the Company expects postpaid subscriber net additions for the full year 2011 and to improve total wireless subscriber net additions in 2011, as compared to 2010. The company also expects full year capital expenditures in 2011, excluding capitalized interest, to be approximately $3 billion. Our net subscriber losses have significantly reduced our revenue and operating cash flow. These effects will continue if we do not continue to attract new subscribers and/or reduce our rate of churn. See Effects on our Wireless Business of Postpaid Subscriber Losses above for a discussion of how our subscriber trends will impact our segment earnings trends. Also, subscriber losses will further decrease our adjusted EBITDA, as defined by our revolving bank credit facility. Management implemented cost reduction programs designed to decrease our cost structure by reducing our labor and other costs; however, we do not expect that the reduction in costs will fully offset the revenue declines described above. The above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under Forward-Looking Statements below and in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q. FUTURE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS On April 19, 2011, Clearwire and Sprint finalized an agreement that establishes new pricing terms and expands potential market opportunities for both companies. The agreement will result in a minimum cash commitment to Clearwire of approximately $300 million in 2011 and $550 million in 2012 for 4G wholesale services to be used in 2011 and 2012. In addition, we will make a refundable prepayment of $175 million in total to be paid in installments during 2011 and 2012, which will be applied to usage above and beyond our minimum commitment over the remaining term of the contract. Due to the continued growth of 4G products and services, Sprint expects to utilize the committed purchase amount and the prepayment in the normal course of business. 30 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Company applies those accounting policies that management believes best reflect the underlying business and economic events, consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Inherent in such policies are certain key assumptions and estimates made by management. Management periodically updates its estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements based on its latest assessment of the current and projected business and general economic environment. Information regarding the Company's Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates is included in Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 . FINANCIAL STRATEGIES General Risk Management Policies Our board of directors has adopted a financial risk management policy that authorizes us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with the policy. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes with the exception of equity rights obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common shares. Derivative instruments are primarily used for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activities may be done for various purposes, including, but not limited to, mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, credit support agreements, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. Exposure to market risk is controlled by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. OTHER INFORMATION We routinely post important information on our website at www.sprint.com . Information contained on our website is not part of this quarterly report. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in our annual, quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, subscriber and network usage, subscriber growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment. Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: our ability to attract and retain subscribers; the ability of our competitors to offer products and services at lower prices due to lower cost structures; the effects of vigorous competition on a highly penetrated market, including the impact of competition on the price we are able to charge subscribers for services and equipment we provide and our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; the overall demand for our service offerings, including the impact of decisions of new or existing subscribers between our postpaid and prepaid services offerings and between our two network platforms; and the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on our business; the ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fully implement our network modernization plan, Network Vision, to improve and enhance our networks and service offerings, implement our business strategies and provide competitive new technologies; the effective implementation of Network Vision including timing, technologies, and costs; changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs; our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all; volatility in the trading price of our common stock, current economic conditions and our ability to access capital; the impact of unrelated parties not meeting our business requirements, including a significant adverse change 31 Table of Contents in the ability or willingness of such parties to provide devices or infrastructure equipment for our CDMA network, or Motorola Mobility, Inc.'s or Motorola Solution Inc.'s ability or willingness to provide related devices, infrastructure equipment and software applications for our iDEN network; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new geographic markets; the financial performance of Clearwire and its continued deployment of a 4G network; the effects of mergers and consolidations and new entrants in the communications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the communications industry; unexpected results of litigation filed against us or our suppliers or vendors; the impact of adverse network performance; the costs or potential customer impacts of compliance with regulatory mandates including, but not limited to, compliance with the FCC's Report and Order to reconfigure the 800 MHz band; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other breaches of network or information technology security; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political, economic or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes or other external factors over which we have no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in this report and other filings of ours with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q. The words may, could, estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, plan, providing guidance and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. Readers are cautioned that other factors, although not listed above, could also materially affect our future performance and operating results. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.