Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations EXPLANATORY NOTE On July 10, 2013, SoftBank Corp., a kabushiki kaisha organized under the laws of Japan, and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries (together, "SoftBank") completed the merger (SoftBank Merger) contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October 15, 2012, as amended as of November 29, 2012, April 12, 2013 and June 10, 2013 (as amended, the Merger Agreement) and the Bond Purchase Agreement (Bond Agreement). As a result of the SoftBank Merger, SoftBank owns approximately 78% of the outstanding voting common stock of Sprint Corporation (formerly known as Starburst II, Inc. prior to the the consummation of the SoftBank Merger) Sprint Corporation became the parent company of Sprint Nextel Corporation and Sprint Nextel Corporation changed its name to Sprint Communications, Inc. In connection with the consummation of the SoftBank Merger, Sprint Corporation has become the successor registrant to Sprint Nextel Corporation pursuant to Rule 12g-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and has become the entity subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) subsequent to the consummation of the SoftBank Merger. Sprint Communications, Inc. (formerly known as Sprint Nextel Corporation) is no longer subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. However, in order to provide continuity of information to investors, Sprint Corporation is supplementally providing disclosure regarding Sprint Communications, Inc. pursuant to the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X for interim financial statements and Item 303 of Regulation S-K for Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. The information contained in Exhibit 99 should be read in conjunction with this Sprint Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. Overview Starburst II was established by SoftBank on October 5, 2012 for the purpose of (i) directly owning Starburst III, Inc. (Merger Sub), (ii) acquiring a controlling interest in Sprint Nextel and (ii) undertaking the actions and completing the transactions contemplated by the SoftBank Merger. As of July 2013, all conditions to closing the SoftBank Merger were completed and the SoftBank Merger was consummated on July 10, 2013 (Merger Date). In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, SoftBank caused Starburst I, Inc. (HoldCo) to contribute $18.5 billion in cash to Starburst II on the Merger Date, of which $1.9 billion remained in the cash balance of Sprint Corporation at closing. The cash contributed by HoldCo at closing was in addition to the equity contribution in October 2012 in the amount of $3.1 billion made by HoldCo in connection with Starburst II's purchase of the convertible bond (Bond). The Bond was converted into shares of Sprint Nextel Common Stock prior to the consummation of the SoftBank Merger pursuant to the terms of the Bond Agreement. Based on elections from holders of Sprint Nextel Common Stock received and the resulting effects of proration pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Sprint Nextel Common Stock for which a stock election was made was converted into the right to receive one share of Sprint Corporation Common Stock, and each share of Sprint Nextel Common Stock for which a cash election or no election was made was converted into the right to receive a combination of cash and a fraction of a share of Sprint Corporation Common Stock. As a result of and contemporaneously with the completion of the SoftBank Merger, SoftBank owned approximately 78% of the outstanding voting common stock of Sprint Corporation on a fully diluted basis indirectly through HoldCo with Sprint Corporation stockholders owning the remaining 22%. The SoftBank Merger consideration totaled approximately $22.3 billion consisting of cash consideration of $16.6 billion , the estimated fair value of the 22% interest in Sprint Corporation, based on the closing share price on July 11, 2013, of $5.3 billion , and equity awards of approximately $400 million . Results of Operations Prior to the SoftBank Merger, Starburst II had not conducted or engaged in any activities or transactions other than those incident to their formation and the matters contemplated by the SoftBank Merger. For the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2013, Starburst II recognized interest income of approximately $13.7 million and $27.4 million, respectively, all of which related to the Bond. In addition to SoftBank Merger-related operating expenses incurred directly by Starburst II of approximately $6.9 million and $11.7 million for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2013, respectively. Starburst II also recognized SoftBank Merger-related operating expenses during the respective periods of $15.0 million and $24.0 million,with a corresponding $15.0 million and $24.0 million increase to additional paid-in capital for expenses incurred by SoftBank on behalf and for the benefit of Starburst II. Included in net loss for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2013, was a charge of $167.0 million and $175.0 million, respectively for the change in the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative related to the Bond. Starburst II reported a net loss of $114.1 million after adjusting for the income tax benefit of $61.1 million and a net loss of $123.4 million after adjusting for the income tax benefit of $59.9 million for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2013, respectively. There were no results for the comparative three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2012 as Starburst II had not been formed. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since the formation of Starburst II on October 5, 2012 and through June 30, 2013, SoftBank (through HoldCo) capitalized Starburst II with $3.1 billion of cash which was used principally to purchase the Bond as contemplated by the SoftBank Transactions. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, SoftBank (through HoldCo) funded Starburst II with additional capital of approximately $18.5 billion at the effective time of the SoftBank Merger, of which approximately $16.6 billion was distributed to Sprint Nextel stockholders as SoftBank Merger consideration with the remaining $1.9 billion held in the cash balances of Sprint Corporation following closing of the SoftBank Merger. Cash requirements prior to consummation of the SoftBank Merger were limited to certain general and SoftBank Merger-related operating expenses for which Starburst II funded principally using proceeds received from the Bond interest payments. Additionally, subsequent to June 30, 2013 and through the Merger Date, certain SoftBank Merger-related expenses continued to be incurred and directly funded by SoftBank on behalf and for the benefit of Starburst II. Such expenses were recognized as operating expenses of Starburst II with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Starburst II has not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements; however, Starburst II pledged a security interest in and continuing lien on substantially all of its assets as a guarantor to the SoftBank bridge financing in December 2012 pursuant to which the lenders agreed to provide SoftBank secured short-term debt financing under two facilities with a maturity date of December 17, 2013 for the purpose of consummating the SoftBank Transactions. Starburst II was released of its obligations as guarantor in connection with the execution of certain amendments to the SoftBank bridge financing in June 2013. Future Contractual Obligations Starburst II has no long-term debt, capital lease obligations, purchase obligations or other long-term liabilities. Starburst II has no operating lease obligations except for Starburst II's obligation under a license agreement with an affiliate of Sprint Nextel for certain office space in Overland Park, Kansas for an aggregate amount of approximately $161,000 during the initial term of the agreement ending in September 2013. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies applied are those that management believes best reflected the underlying business and economic events, consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Inherent in such policies were certain key assumptions and estimates made by management. Management periodically updated its estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements based on its latest assessment of the current and projected business and general economic environment. Forward Looking Statements We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in our annual, quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, subscriber and network usage, subscriber growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events, and the economic and regulatory environment. Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: our ability to retain and attract subscribers; and to manage credit risks associated with our subscribers; the ability of our competitors to offer products and services at lower prices due to lower cost structures; our ability to operationalize the anticipated benefits from the SoftBank Merger and the acquisition of Clearwire Corporation (Clearwire); our ability to fully integrate the operations of Clearwire and utilize its spectrum; the effects of vigorous competition on a highly penetrated market, including the impact of competition on the price we are able to charge subscribers for services and equipment we provide and on the geographic areas served by the Company's wireless networks; the impact of equipment net subsidy costs; the impact of increased purchase commitments; the overall demand for our service offerings, including the impact of decisions of new or existing subscribers between our postpaid and prepaid service offerings and between our two network platforms; and the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on our business; our ability to provide the desired mix of integrated services to our subscribers; the ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fully implement our network modernization plan, Network Vision, to improve and enhance our networks and service offerings, improve our operating margins, implement our business strategies and provide competitive new technologies; the effective implementation of Network Vision, including timing, execution, technologies, costs, and performance of our network; our ability to retain subscribers acquired during transactions and mitigate related increases in churn; our ability to access additional spectrum capacity; changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs; our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all; volatility in the trading price of Sprint Corporation common stock, current economic conditions and our ability to access capital; the impact of unrelated parties not meeting our business requirements, including a significant adverse change in the ability or willingness of such parties to provide devices or infrastructure equipment for our networks; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new geographic markets; the effects of mergers and consolidations and new entrants in the communications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the communications industry; unexpected results of litigation filed against us or our suppliers or vendors; the impact of adverse network performance; the costs or potential customer impacts of compliance with regulatory mandates including, but not limited to, compliance with the FCC's Report and Order to reconfigure the 800 MHz band and government regulation regarding "net neutrality" and conflict minerals; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other breaches of network or information technology security; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political, economic or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes, or other external factors over which we have no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in this report and other filings of ours with the SEC, including in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-Q. The words may, could, "should," estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, "anticipate," believe, target, plan, providing guidance and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. Readers are cautioned that other factors, although not listed above, could also materially affect our future performance and operating results. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.