ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), on March 26, 2025. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Our fiscal year ends on January 31, and our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31, and January 31. Our fiscal years ended January 31, 2026 and January 31, 2025 are referred to herein as fiscal 2026 and fiscal 2025, respectively. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to SentinelOne, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to SentinelOne, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview We founded SentinelOne in 2013 with a dramatically new approach to cybersecurity. We pioneered the worlds first purpose-built AI-powered security platform to make cyber defense truly autonomous, from the endpoint and beyond. Our Singularity Platform instantly defends against cyberattacks performing at a faster speed, greater scale, and higher accuracy than otherwise possible from a human-powered approach. Our Singularity Platform ingests, correlates, and queries petabytes of structured and unstructured data from a myriad of ever-expanding disparate external and internal sources in real-time. We aim to build rich context and deliver greater visibility by constructing a dynamic representation of data across an organization. As a result, our AI models are able to be highly accurate, actionable, and autonomous. Our distributed AI models run both locally on every endpoint and every cloud workload, as well as on our cloud platform. Our Static and vector-agnostic Behavioral AI models, which run on the endpoints themselves, provide our customers with protection even when their devices are not connected to the cloud. In the cloud, our Streaming AI can detect anomalies that surface when multiple data feeds are correlated. By providing full visibility into the Storyline of every secured device across the organization through one console, our platform can make it very fast for analysts to easily search through petabytes of data to investigate incidents and proactively hunt threats. We have extended our control and visibility planes beyond the traditional endpoint to unmanaged Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Singularity can be flexibly deployed on the environments that our customers choose, including public, private, or hybrid clouds. Our feature parity across Windows, macOS, Linux, and Kubernetes offers best-of-breed protection, visibility, and control across todays heterogeneous IT environments. Together, these capabilities make our platform the logical choice for organizations of all sizes, industry verticals, and compliance requirements. Our platform offers true multi-tenancy, which allows us to serve the worlds largest organizations, managed security providers and incident response partners. Our customers are able to realize improved cybersecurity outcomes with fewer people. 24 Table of Contents We generate most of our revenue by selling subscriptions to our Singularity Platform. We generally price our subscriptions and modules on a per agent basis, and each agent generally corresponds with an endpoint, server, virtual machine, or container. Our subscription contracts typically range from one to three years. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of a contract. Most of our contracts are for terms representing annual increments, therefore contracts generally come up for renewal in the same period in subsequent years. The timing of large multi-year enterprise contracts can create some variability in subscription order levels between periods, though the impact to our revenue in any particular period is limited as a result of ratable revenue recognition. Our go-to-market strategy is focused on acquiring new customers and driving expanded usage of our platform by existing customers. Our sales organization is comprised of our enterprise sales, inside sales and customer solutions engineering teams. It leverages our global network of independent software vendors (ISVs), alliance partners, and channel partners for prospect access. Additionally, our sales teams work closely with our customers, channel partners, and alliance partners to drive adoption of our platform, and our software solutions are fulfilled through our channel partners. Our channel partners include some of the worlds largest resellers and distributors, managed service providers (MSPs), managed security service providers (MSSPs), managed detection and response providers (MDRs), original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and incident response (IR) firms. Once customers experience the benefits of our platform, they often expand their subscriptions to benefit from the full range of our platform solutions. Additionally, many of our customers adopt Singularity Modules over time to extend the functionality of our platform and increase their coverage footprint. The combination of platform upgrades and extended modules drives our powerful land-and-expand motion. Our Singularity Platform is used globally by organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries. We had 1,459 customers with annualized recurring revenue (ARR) of $100,000 or more as of April 30, 2025, up from 1,193 as of April 30, 2024. We define ARR as the annualized revenue run rate of our subscription and consumption and usage-based agreements at the end of a reporting period, assuming contracts are renewed on their existing terms for customers that are under contracts with us. As of April 30, 2025, no single end customer accounted for more than 3% of our ARR. Our revenue outside of the U.S. represented 38% and 37% for the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, illustrating the global nature of our solutions. We have grown rapidly since our inception. Our revenue was $229.0 million and $186.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 23%. During this period, we continued to invest in growing our business to capitalize on our market opportunity. As a result, our net loss for the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024 was $208.2 million and $70.1 million, respectively. Impact of Global Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Conditions Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on customer behavior. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, interest rate volatility, slower growth, potential recession, significant political or regulatory developments including changes in trade policy, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, actual or perceived instability in the global banking industry, potential uncertainty with respect to the federal debt ceiling and budget, and other changes in economic conditions, and the impact of natural or man-made global events, including wars and other regional geopolitical armed conflict, such as the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, and tensions between China and Taiwan, may result in decreased sales productivity and growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. As a result of the current macroeconomic environment, we have recently experienced certain impacts on our business, including a decline in usage and consumption patterns from certain customers, especially larger enterprise customers, longer sales cycles, and deal downsizing by new customers and of renewals by existing customers, especially larger enterprises. We intend to continue to monitor global macroeconomic conditions closely and may determine to take certain financial or operational actions in response to such conditions to the extent our business begins to be adversely impacted. We are unable to predict the full impact that macroeconomic or other geopolitical factors will have on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition due to numerous uncertainties, including the actions that may 25 Table of Contents be taken by government authorities across the U.S. or other countries, changes in central bank policies and interest rates, rates of inflation, potential uncertainty with respect to the federal debt ceiling and budget, regional geopolitical conflicts, the impact to our customers, partners, and suppliers, and other factors described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We monitor the following key metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Revenue We discuss revenue below under Components of Our Results of Operations. Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 229,029 $ 186,355 Non-GAAP operating loss In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use non-GAAP operating loss as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. We believe that non-GAAP operating loss provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as this measure excludes, among other expenses, expenses that we do not consider to be indicative of our overall operating performance. Non-GAAP operating loss is calculated as GAAP operating loss adjusted to exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related compensation, stock-based compensation expense, payroll tax on employee stock transactions, and restructuring charges. Non-GAAP operating loss has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, including GAAP operating loss. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP measures, including non-GAAP operating loss, differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP operating loss is presented for supplemental informational purposes only. Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Non-GAAP operating loss $ (3,927) $ (11,081) A reconciliation of non-GAAP operating loss to GAAP operating loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, is provided below: 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP operating loss $ (87,483) $ (80,600) Stock-based compensation expense 68,655 58,553 Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 2,748 2,188 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 6,239 7,675 Acquisition-related compensation 711 1,103 Severance and employee benefits 3,004 Asset impairment charges 2,171 Other restructuring charges 28 Non-GAAP operating loss $ (3,927) $ (11,081) Annualized Recurring Revenue We believe that ARR is a key operating metric to measure our business because it is driven by our ability to acquire new subscription, consumption, and usage-based customers, and to maintain and expand our relationship with existing customers. ARR represents the annualized revenue run rate of our subscription and consumption and usage-based agreements at the end of a reporting period, assuming contracts are renewed on their existing terms for customers that are under contracts with us. ARR is an operational metric and is not a non-GAAP metric. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue, which can be impacted by contract start and end dates, usage, renewal rates, and other contractual terms. As of April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Annualized recurring revenue $ 948,110 $ 762,214 ARR grew 24% year-over-year to $948.1 million as of April 30, 2025, primarily driven by a combination of new customer additions and adoption of adjacent platform solutions by existing customers. Customers with ARR of $100,000 or More We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers with ARR of $100,000 or more is an indicator of our market penetration and strategic demand for our platform. We define a customer as an entity that has an active subscription for access to our platform. We count MSPs, MSSPs, MDRs, and OEMs, who may purchase our products on behalf of multiple companies, as a single customer. We do not count our reseller or distributor channel partners as customers. As of April 30, 2025 2024 Customers with ARR of $100,000 or more 1,459 1,193 Customers with ARR of $100,000 or more grew 22% year-over-year to 1,459 as of April 30, 2025, primarily due to the growth in the ARR of existing customers from additional purchases and the growth in the average size of purchases by new customers. 27 Table of Contents Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate We believe that our ability to retain and expand our revenue generated from our existing customers is an indicator of the long-term value of our customer relationships and our potential future business opportunities. NRR measures the percentage change in our ARR derived from our customer base at a point in time. Our NRR remained in expansionary territory as of April 30, 2025, driven by existing customers adoption of additional endpoint licenses and adjacent platform solutions. We see significant long-term expansion potential based on high customer retention rates, expanding product categories, and early-stage adoption from our installed base. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate most of our revenue by selling subscriptions to our Singularity Platform. Customers can extend the functionality of their subscription to our platform by subscribing to additional Singularity Modules. Subscriptions provide access to hosted software. The nature of our promise to the customer under the subscription is to provide protection for the duration of the contractual term and as such is considered as a series of distinct services. Our arrangements may include fixed consideration, variable consideration, or a combination of the two. Fixed consideration is recognized over the term of the arrangement or longer if the fixed consideration relates to a material right. Variable consideration in these arrangements is typically a function of transaction volume or another usage-based measure. Depending upon the structure of a particular arrangement, we (i) allocate the variable amount to each distinct service period within the series and recognize revenue as each distinct service period is performed (i.e. direct allocation), (ii) estimate total variable consideration at contract inception (giving consideration to any constraints that may apply and updating the estimates as new information becomes available) and recognize the total transaction price over the period to which it relates, or (iii) apply the right to invoice practical expedient and recognize revenue based on the amount invoiced to the customer during the period. Premium support and maintenance and other Singularity Modules are distinct from subscriptions and are recognized ratably over the term as the performance obligations are satisfied. We invoice our customers upfront upon signing for the entire term of the contract, periodically, or in arrears. Most of our subscription contracts have a term of one to three years. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in connection with the hosting and maintenance of our platform. Cost of revenue also consists of personnel-related costs associated with our customer support and services organization, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, software and subscription services used by our customer support and services team, inventory-related costs, and allocated facilities and IT overhead costs. Our third-party cloud infrastructure costs are driven primarily by the number of customers, the number of endpoints per customer, the number of modules, and the incremental costs for storing additional data collected for such cloud modules. We plan to continue to invest in our platform infrastructure and additional resources in our customer support and services organization as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue from period to period. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and restructuring expenses. Personnel-related expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated facilities and IT overhead costs. 28 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include consulting fees, software and subscription services, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform and modules. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to increase investments in our existing products and services. However, we anticipate research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our total revenue over time, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our total revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. In addition, research and development expenses that qualify as internal-use software are capitalized, the amount of which may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee salaries, commissions, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, travel and entertainment related expenses, advertising, branding and marketing events, promotions, amortization of acquired customer relationships, and software and subscription services. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales commissions paid to our sales force and referral fees paid to independent third parties that are incremental to obtain a subscription contract. Such costs are capitalized and amortized over an estimated period of benefit of four years, and any such expenses paid for the renewal of a subscription are capitalized and amortized over the average contractual term of the renewal. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenue, further penetrate the market, and expand our global customer base, but to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and other expenses for our executive, finance, legal, people team, and facilities organizations. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting, other consulting, and professional services fees, software and subscription services, and other corporate expenses. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for insurance, investor relations, and professional services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time. Restructuring Restructuring charges related to the restructuring plan executed in March 2025 (Plan) consist primarily of charges related to severance payments, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, and asset impairment charges related to facilities. The actions associated with the Plan are expected to be fully completed by the second quarter of fiscal 2026. Interest Income, Net, and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income, net consists primarily of interest earned on our cash equivalents and investments, offset by interest expense, which consists primarily of the amortization of the discount related to acquisition-related liabilities. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and gains and losses on strategic investments. 29 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business and the tax effects of the APA matter (defined below), including $136.0 million of tax expense for unrecognized tax benefits, offset by a $4.7 million discrete tax benefit from the release of valuation allowance attributable to the recognition of our Israel deferred tax assets also related to this matter. In connection with our global consolidated losses, we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We expect our provision for income taxes to increase in fiscal 2026 and beyond based upon increased foreign earnings and certain minimum taxes. Additionally, as discussed in more detail in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, since 2022, we have been negotiating a bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Israel Tax Authority (ITA) covering various transfer pricing matters for intercompany transactions relating to the intergroup ownership and utilization of our intellectual property (the APA matter). As of April 30, 2025, we have recorded an unrecognized tax benefit of $136.0 million related to the APA matter, and negotiations remain ongoing with no finalized resolution or agreement reached at this time. If we agree to an APA or a negotiated settlement, we may, as part of that agreement, be required to make significant payments to the Israeli government. The unrecognized tax benefit recorded during the three months ended April 30, 2025 could increase or decrease based on further developments relating to this matter. For more information, see Note 9, Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 229,029 $ 186,355 Cost of revenue(1) 56,532 50,137 Gross profit 172,497 136,218 Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 72,253 58,321 Sales and marketing(1) 133,881 115,830 General and administrative(1) 48,679 42,667 Restructuring(1) 5,167 Total operating expenses 259,980 216,818 Loss from operations (87,483) (80,600) Interest income, net 12,290 12,046 Other income (expense), net 492 (39) Loss before income taxes (74,701) (68,593) Provision for income taxes 133,492 1,512 Net loss $ (208,193) $ (70,105) __________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 4,665 $ 4,869 Research and development 20,941 17,465 Sales and marketing 22,915 18,074 General and administrative 20,170 18,145 Restructuring (36) Total stock-based compensation expense $ 68,655 $ 58,553 31 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 25 27 Gross profit 75 73 Operating expenses: Research and development 32 31 Sales and marketing 58 62 General and administrative 21 23 Restructuring 2 Total operating expenses 114 116 Loss from operations (38) (43) Interest income, net 5 6 Other income (expense), net Loss before income taxes (33) (37) Provision for income taxes 58 1 Net loss (91) % (38) % Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 229,029 $ 186,355 $ 42,674 23 % Revenue increased by $42.7 million primarily due to a combination of sales to new customers and sales of additional licenses and platform solutions to existing customers. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 56,532 $ 50,137 $ 6,395 13 % Gross profit $ 172,497 $ 136,218 $ 36,279 27 % Gross margin 75 % 73 % Cost of revenue increased by $6.4 million primarily due to a $4.6 million increase in cloud hosting usage charges to support our expanding business, and a $1.5 million increase in amortization of capitalized internal use-software due to the continued investment in our platform. Gross margin increased to 75%, primarily due to revenue growth from existing and new customers outpacing growth in cost of revenue. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development expenses $ 72,253 $ 58,321 $ 13,932 24 % Research and development expenses increased by $13.9 million primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $9.8 million, including an increase of $3.5 million related to stock-based compensation expense as a result of increased headcount, an increase of $1.6 million in cloud hosting expenses driven by expanded research and development activities, and a $1.6 million increase in allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing expenses $ 133,881 $ 115,830 $ 18,051 16 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $18.1 million primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $15.9 million, including an increase of $4.8 million in stock-based compensation expense due to higher headcount and increased stock-based compensation modification expenses, and an increase in travel and entertainment expenses of $1.5 million. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expenses $ 48,679 $ 42,667 $ 6,012 14 % General and administrative expenses increased by $6.0 million primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $5.2 million, including an increase of $2.0 million in stock-based compensation expense as a result of increased headcount, and a $2.2 million increase in consulting expenses. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in $1.3 million overhead expenses due to higher overhead cost being allocated out. Restructuring Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Restructuring $ 5,167 $ $ 5,167 100 % Restructuring charges increased by $5.2 million due to activities undertaken pursuant to the Plan. This included severance and employee benefit charges of $3.0 million and asset impairment charges related to facilities of $2.2 million. 33 Table of Contents Interest Income, Net, and Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income, net $ 12,290 $ 12,046 $ 244 2 % Other income (expense), net $ 492 $ (39) $ 531 (1,362) % Interest income, net increased $0.2 million driven by higher income earned from investments in marketable securities during the three months ended April 30, 2025. The change in other income (expense), net is primarily due to net foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 133,492 $ 1,512 $ 131,980 8,729 % The provision for income taxes increased due to an accrual of $136.0 million for an unrecognized tax benefit related to our APA matter, offset by a discrete benefit of $4.7 million from the release of valuation allowance upon recognition of Israel deferred tax assets, also in connection with the APA matter. We compute our tax provision for interim periods by applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to year-to-date income from recurring operations and adjusting for discrete items arising in that quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from sales of equity securities and payments received from our customers, and we have generated operating losses, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion as of April 30, 2025 and January 31, 2025, respectively. We expect these and other operating losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We also expect to incur significant research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses over the next several years in connection with the continued development and expansion of our business. Additionally, if we agree to an APA, we may, as part of that agreement, be required to make significant payments to the Israeli government which may adversely affect our cash flows over the next several years. As more fully described in the section titled Risk FactorsOur corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which would harm our operating results and financial condition during the three months ended April 30, 2025, in the context of the APA negotiations, we discussed a framework for a final settlement and resolution of this matter with the ITA. As a result of such discussions, we reassessed our uncertain tax position in respect of the APA matter, and based on this reassessment, recorded a tax expense of $136.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2025. If we agree to an APA or other negotiated settlement, we may, as part of that agreement, be required to make significant payments to the Israeli government. We currently expect that any payments pursuant to an APA (if an APA is concluded) would be made over a number of years and subject to other terms and conditions. However, no agreements between us and the IRS and ITA have been reached at this time. As of April 30, 2025 and January 31, 2025, our principal source of liquidity was cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. In the short term, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. In the long term beyond the next 12 months, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase third-party cloud infrastructure, expenses associated with our international 34 Table of Contents expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We have, and in the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We hold our cash, cash equivalents, and investments with a diverse group of banking partners. However, any instability in the U.S. or global banking system or relating to the federal budget may impact liquidity both in the short term and long term and may result in adverse impacts to our or our customers business, including in our customers ability to pay for our platform. On May 22, 2025, our board of directors authorized the 2025 Share Repurchase Program, under which we may purchase up to $200.0 million of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. We may repurchase shares of Class A common stock from time to time through open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions or by other means. The timing and total amount of stock repurchases will be at the discretion of management and will depend upon business, economic, and market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, prevailing stock prices, and other considerations. The 2025 Share Repurchase Program has no expiration date but may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time, and does not obligate us to acquire any amount of Class A common stock. We expect to retire any repurchased shares of Class A common stock. As of May 28, 2025, no shares have been repurchased under the 2025 Share Repurchase Program. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 52,274 $ 42,003 Net cash used in investing activities $ (65,592) $ (106,264) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 12,277 $ 6,533 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, sales and marketing expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, and overhead expenses. Our operating cash flow is influenced by seasonal billing patterns, with a concentration of annual billings in our fiscal fourth quarter due to enterprise buying and renewal cycles. This makes our fiscal first quarter our strongest for collections and operating cash flow. Acquisitions can also impact cash flow due to transaction costs, financing expenses, and lower initial contributions from acquired entities. Cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $52.3 million, primarily consisting of $161.3 million provided by net changes to our operating assets and liabilities and adjustments for non-cash items of $99.1 million, partially offset by our net loss of $208.2 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an increase of accrued liabilities and other liabilities of $130.7 million, of which $136.0 million is related to an accrual for an unrecognized tax benefit related to our APA matter, a $80.6 million decrease in accounts receivable, and a $13.4 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of invoices received from vendors. These amounts were partially offset by a $26.8 million decrease in 35 Table of Contents deferred revenue, a $16.4 million decrease in accrued payroll and benefits, a $14.7 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs, and a $4.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $42.0 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $70.1 million, offset by adjustments for non-cash items of $83.4 million and $28.7 million provided by net changes to our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $80.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash received from customers, a $3.9 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $2.4 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of invoices received from vendors. These amounts were partially offset by a $22.1 million decrease in deferred revenue, a $18.9 million decrease in accrued payroll and benefits, and a $15.2 million decrease in deferred contract acquisition costs. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $65.6 million, primarily consisting of $167.3 million of investment purchases, and $6.7 million of capitalized internal-use software costs. These amounts were partially offset by $108.5 million of investment sales and maturities. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $106.3 million, consisting of $247.0 million of investment purchases, $61.6 million of net cash paid for the acquisitions of PingSafe and Stride, and $7.4 million of capitalized internal-use software costs. These amounts were partially offset by $210.6 million of investment sales and maturities. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $12.3 million, entirely consisting of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $6.5 million, primarily consisting of $6.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report for the three months ended April 30, 2025, except for the following: Income Taxes We evaluate uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740. We recognize a tax benefit when it is more likely than not that our tax position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is based on the largest benefit that is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. The evaluation of uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment, including interpretation of tax law, legal precedent, expected outcomes of negotiations with taxing authorities and changes in facts and circumstances. When 36 Table of Contents new information becomes available, such as discussions in settlement negotiations, this could constitute a change in facts and circumstances that may require remeasurement of the associated liability. During the three months ended April 30, 2025, we discussed a framework for final settlement and resolution of a bilateral APA matter with the ITA. Based on these discussions, we assessed probable outcomes and adjusted our measurement of the related uncertain tax position which resulted in $136.0 million of income tax expense. We will continue to reassess our uncertain tax positions at each reporting date, incorporating the most current information, including any settlement developments, audit activity, or legal interpretations. See Note 9, Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss carryforwards. We establish a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We consider both positive and negative evidence under ASC 740, including historical levels of income, expectations, and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. We released valuation allowance of $4.7 million against Israeli deferred tax assets, in connection with a bilateral APA matter, during the three months ended April 30, 2025. We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets at each reporting date. See Note 9, Income Taxes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements and our expectation of their impact, if any, on our results of operations and financial condition.