Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Sprint Corporation, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is a communications company offering a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses, government subscribers, and resellers. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to "Sprint," "we," "us," "our" and the "Company" mean Sprint Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries for all periods presented, and references to "Sprint Communications" are to Sprint Communications, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Description of the Company We are a large wireless communications company in the U.S., as well as a provider of wireline services. Our services are provided through our ownership of extensive wireless networks, an all-digital global wireline network and a Tier 1 Internet backbone. We offer wireless and wireline services to subscribers in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands under the Sprint corporate brand, which includes our retail brands of Sprint , Boost Mobile , Virgin Mobile , and Assurance Wireless on our wireless networks utilizing various technologies including third generation (3G) code division multiple access (CDMA) and fourth generation (4G) services utilizing Long Term Evolution (LTE). We utilize these networks to offer our wireless subscribers differentiated products and services through the use of a single network or a combination of these networks. Business Combination Agreement On April 29, 2018, we announced that we entered into a Business Combination Agreement with T-Mobile US, Inc. (T-Mobile) to merge in an all-stock transaction for a fixed exchange ratio of 0.10256 of T-Mobile shares for each Sprint share, or the equivalent of 9.75 Sprint shares for each T-Mobile share (Merger Transaction) . Immediately following the Merger Transaction, Deutsche Telekom AG and SoftBank Group Corp. are expected to hold approximately 42% and 27% of fully-diluted shares of the combined company, respectively, with the remaining 31% of the fully-diluted shares of the combined company held by public stockholders. The board of directors will consist of 14 directors, of which nine will be nominated by Deutsche Telekom AG, four will be nominated by SoftBank Group Corp., and the final director will be the CEO of the combined company. The combined company will be named T-Mobile. The Merger Transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including certain state and federal regulatory approvals. Sprint and T-Mobile completed the Hart-Scott-Rodino filing with the Department of Justice (DOJ) on May 24, 2018. On June 18, 2018, the parties filed with the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC) the merger applications, including the Public Interest Statement. On July 18, 2018, the FCC accepted the applications for filing and established a public comment period for the Merger Transaction. The formal comment period concluded on October 31, 2018. On May 20, 2019, to facilitate the FCCs review and approval of the FCC license transfers associated with the proposed Merger Transaction, we and T-Mobile filed with the FCC a written ex parte presentation (the Presentation) relating to the proposed Merger Transaction. The Presentation included proposed commitments from us and T-Mobile. Following the Presentation, we received statements of support for the Merger Transaction by the FCC Chairman Ajit Pai and Commissioners Carr and ORielly. Formal action on the Merger Transaction by the FCC remains pending. The Merger Transaction received clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States on December 17, 2018. On July 26, 2019, the DOJ and five State Attorneys General filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia that would resolve their objections to the Merger Transaction. The Merger Transaction has received approval from 18 of the 19 state public utility commissions. The parties are awaiting further regulatory approvals, and resolution of litigation filed by the Attorneys General of 14 states and the District of Columbia seeking to block the Merger Transaction. Sprint and T-Mobile also announced agreements with DISH Network Corporation (DISH) in which new T-Mobile will divest Sprints prepaid businesses (excluding the Assurance brand Lifeline customers and the prepaid wireless customers of Shenandoah Telecommunications Company and Swiftel Communications, Inc.) and Sprints 800 MHz spectrum assets to DISH for a total of approximately $5.0 billion. Additionally, upon the closing of the divestiture transaction, new T-Mobile will provide DISH wireless customers access to its network for up to seven years and offer standard transition services arrangements to DISH during a transition period of up to three years. DISH will also have an option to take on leases for certain cell sites and retail locations that are decommissioned by the new T-Mobile, subject to any assignment restrictions. The transactions with DISH are contingent on the successful closing of T-Mobiles merger with Sprint among other closing conditions. Additionally, the parties to the Business Combination Agreement extended the Outside Date (as defined in the 39 Table of Contents Business Combination Agreement) to November 1, 2019, or, if the Marketing Period (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) is in effect at such time, then the Outside Date will be January 2, 2020. Leases The Company adopted Leases (Topic 842) beginning on April 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method. See Note 7. Leases in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information related to operating and financing leases, including qualitative and quantitative disclosures required under Topic 842. The impact to our consolidated financial statements of adopting Topic 842 is presented in Note 2. New Accounting Pronouncements in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Wireless We offer wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid payment basis to retail subscribers and also on a wholesale basis, which includes the sale of wireless services that utilize the Sprint network but are sold under the wholesaler's brand. Postpaid In our postpaid portfolio, we offer several price plans for both consumer and business subscribers. Many of our price plans include unlimited talk, text and data or allow subscribers to purchase monthly data allowances. We also offer family plans that include multiple lines of service under one account. Under the Sprint brand, we currently offer our devices through leasing and installment billing programs, and within limited plan offerings devices may be subsidized in exchange for a service contract. Our Sprint branded leasing and installment billing programs do not require a long-term service contract but offer devices tied to service plans at lower monthly rates when compared to subsidy plans. The installment billing program requires the subscriber to pay full or a discounted retail price based on promotional activities for the device over the installment period. The leasing program requires the subscriber to pay a rental fee over the lease term. In July 2017, we introduced the Sprint Flex program, which gives customers the opportunity to enjoy their phone before deciding what option (upgrade, continue leasing, return or buy) works best for their lifestyle. Depending on device type, certain leases carry an option to upgrade to a new device annually prior to expiration of the lease. The terms of our lease and installment billing contracts require that customers maintain service otherwise the balance of the remaining contractual obligation on the device is due upon termination of their service. The subsidy program, which has been de-emphasized, requires a long-term service contract and allows a subscriber to purchase a device generally at a discount. In our non-Sprint branded postpaid plan, we offer devices through an installment billing program while requiring service to be purchased on a prepaid basis. The majority of Sprint's current handset activations occur on our Sprint Flex leasing program. Prepaid Our prepaid portfolio currently includes multiple brands, each designed to appeal to specific subscriber uses and demographics. Additionally, a subsidy program is available within certain prepaid plan offerings. In our indirect channel, customers who activate service under certain prepaid plan offerings are able to purchase devices at a discount. Boost Mobile primarily serves subscribers that are looking for value without data limits. Virgin Mobile primarily serves subscribers that are looking to optimize spend but need solutions that offer control, flexibility and connectivity through various plans with high speed data options. Virgin Mobile is also designated as a Lifeline-only Eligible Telecommunications Carrier. Under the Assurance Wireless brand, Virgin Mobile provides service to Lifeline eligible subscribers (for whom it seeks reimbursement from the federal Universal Service Fund) and subscribers who have lost their Lifeline eligibility and retain Assurance Wireless retail service. The Lifeline program requires applicants to meet certain eligibility requirements and existing subscribers must recertify as to those requirements annually. Wholesale We have focused our wholesale business on allowing our diverse network of customers to successfully grow their business by providing them with an array of network, product, and device solutions. This allows our customers to customize this full suite of value-added solutions to meet the growing demands of their businesses. As part of these growing demands, some of our wholesale mobile virtual network operators (MVNO) are also selling prepaid services under the Lifeline program. We continue to support the open development of applications, content, and devices on the Sprint network. In addition, we enable a variety of business and consumer third-party relationships through our portfolio of machine-to-machine solutions, which we offer on a retail postpaid and wholesale basis. Our machine-to-machine solutions portfolio provides a secure, real-time and reliable wireless two-way data connection across a broad range of connected devices. 40 Table of Contents Wireline We provide a suite of wireline communication services to other communications companies and targeted business customers. In addition, our Wireline segment provides data and IP communication services to our Wireless segment. We provide long distance services and operate all-digital global long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. Business Strategies and Key Priorities Our business strategy is to be responsive to changing customer mobility demands of existing and potential customers, and to expand our business into new areas of customer value and economic opportunity through innovation and differentiation. To help lay the foundation for these future growth opportunities, our strategy revolves around targeted investment in the following key priority areas: our Next-Gen network plan will deliver competitive coverage, faster speeds and more capacity; create a compelling unlimited value proposition; provide the best digital customer experience; and engage our employees by making Sprint a great place to work. While the Company launched 5G in select cities in the first half of 2019 and we plan to continue to invest in our network during the next few years, many of the underlying service quality, scale, and financial challenges remain. We aim to use our spectrum to build our 5G network on 2.5 GHz spectrum. See Network below for more information regarding our network plans and potential challenges to our rollout of 5G. We aim to create a compelling unlimited value proposition by leveraging our spectrum holdings while remaining the price leader on Unlimited plan offerings and taking our brand to the next level. We plan to continue to invest in digital capabilities and artificial intelligence to improve the customer experience. We are focused on finding the right balance between physical and digital retail to serve customers wherever and whenever they want. We have recruited leaders in our industry from around the globe and employ an organizational focus to ensure Sprint has a work environment employees recommend. Network We continue to increase coverage and capacity by densifying and evolving our existing network toward 5G. Densification, which includes increasing the number of small cells and antennas, is intended to enhance coverage and capacity across the network. We are also deploying new technologies, such as Massive MIMO and carrier aggregation, which allows us to move more data at faster speeds over the same spectrum and eventually migrate customers to an all IP network, supporting both Voice over LTE and data. Additionally, our introduction of tri-band devices, including those with 5G capabilities, allows us to manage and operate our network more efficiently and at a lower cost. We have continued to see positive results from these infrastructure upgrades in key U.S. markets. While Sprint will build 5G in a number of cities throughout the country, its current 5G build plans will result in coverage that is limited to major cities and the surrounding areas rather than coverage that blankets the entire geography of the United States. Sprints ability to expand this 5G network build plan may be limited by its financial resources, lack of scale and access to low-band spectrum. Moreover, Sprint plans to focus on creating a 5G ecosystem for smartphones and other mobile devices rather than stationary devices. The 2.5 GHz spectrum band carries the highest percentage of Sprint's LTE data traffic. We have significant additional capacity to grow the use of our 2.5 GHz spectrum holdings into the future. Sprint believes it is well-positioned with spectrum holdings of more than 160 MHz of 2.5 GHz spectrum in the top 100 markets in the U.S. Sprint's spectrum holdings allow us to introduce 5G in parallel with 4G service over the same 2.5 GHz spectrum band, supporting the early introduction of 5G devices without disrupting the capacity needed to support our 4G users. Overall, our densification and introduction of 5G technologies are expected to continue to enhance the customer experience by adding data capacity, increasing the wireless data speeds available to our customers, and improving network performance for both voice and data services, especially in the geographic areas where 5G will be provided. In the event the Merger Transaction is not completed, our ability to provide a nationwide network capable of competing effectively with other competitors in the wireless industry will depend on our access to, and deployment of, adequate low-band spectrum. As part of the evolution of our existing network toward 5G, we plan to modify our existing backhaul architecture to enable increased capacity to our network at a lower cost by either negotiating lower vendor pricing for existing Ethernet technology or replacing Ethernet with fiber. We expect to incur termination costs associated with Ethernet contractual commitments with 41 Table of Contents third-party vendors ranging between approximately $100 million to $120 million, of which the majority are expected to be incurred by December 31, 2020. In 2019, Sprint launched 5G service in five major cities with four more major cities expected to launch shortly. Once 5G-compatible equipment is in place and activated, customers in those cities will have access to Sprint's 5G network if they are in range of a cell site that has been equipped with a 5G radio supported by available 2.5 GHz spectrum and have a 5G-capable device. As more and more sites are 5G-enabled, customers in those areas will be able to have an increasing percentage of their mobile experiences on 5G rather than on LTE or 3G. If the Merger Transaction with T-Mobile is not completed, it is expected that Sprint will not be able to deploy a nationwide 5G network on the same scale and on the same timeline as the combined company. For example, Sprints standalone 5G network would be geographically limited due to both Sprints limited current network footprint on which to build 5G sites and the cost of utilizing 2.5 GHz spectrum for 5G. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides an overview of the consolidated results of operations. Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 (in millions) Wireless segment earnings $ 3,037 $ 3,318 Wireline segment loss (42 ) Corporate, other and eliminations 5 4 Consolidated segment earnings 3,042 3,280 Depreciation - network and other (1,120 ) (1,023 ) Depreciation - equipment rentals (1,029 ) (1,136 ) Amortization (118 ) (171 ) Other, net (320 ) (135 ) Operating income 455 815 Interest expense (619 ) (637 ) Other income, net 28 42 Income tax benefit (expense) 22 (47 ) Net (loss) income $ (114 ) $ 173 Depreciation Expense - Network and Other Depreciation expense - network and other increased $97 million , or 9% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to increased depreciation on new asset additions, partially offset by decreases associated with fully depreciated or retired assets. Depreciation Expense - Equipment Rentals Depreciation expense - equipment rentals decreased $107 million , or 9% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to decreased depreciation for fully depreciated or retired leased devices combined with favorable changes to leased device residual values. Amortization Expense Amortization expense decreased $53 million , or 31% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to customer relationship intangible assets that are amortized using the sum-of-the-months'-digits method, which results in higher amortization rates in early periods that decline over time. 42 Table of Contents Other, net The following table provides additional information regarding items included in "Other, net" for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 . Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 (in millions) Severance and exit costs $ (27 ) $ (8 ) Contract termination costs (34 ) Merger costs (83 ) (93 ) Asset impairment (210 ) Total $ (320 ) $ (135 ) Other, net represented an expense of $320 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 . During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we recognized $210 million of asset impairment expense primarily related to the sale and leaseback of our Overland Park, Kansas campus and severance and exit costs of $27 million due to access termination charges. In addition, during the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we incurred merger-related costs of $83 million , which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" in the consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income . Other, net represented an expense of $135 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 . During the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 , we recognized severance and exit costs of $8 million primarily due to access termination charges and $34 million associated with the purchase of certain leased spectrum assets, which upon termination of the related spectrum leases resulted in the accelerated recognition of the unamortized favorable lease balances. We also incurred merger-related costs of $93 million , which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" in the consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income . Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $18 million , or 3% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 . The effective interest rate, which includes capitalized interest, on the weighted average long-term debt balance of $38.6 billion and $40.5 billion was 6.6% and 6.4% for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on the Company's financing activities. Other income, net Other income, net was $28 million and $42 million for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and represents interest income. Income Taxes Income tax benefit of $22 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , respectively, represented a consolidated effective tax rate of 16% . During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we recognized a $14 million tax expense for federal and state valuation allowance. This expense partially offsets the tax benefit recognized from the pre-tax book loss at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. Income tax expense of $47 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 represented a consolidated effective tax rate of 21% . During the period, we recognized a $24 million tax benefit for the impact of state law changes enacted during the period, partially offset by a $13 million tax expense attributable to organizational restructuring. These adjustments were primarily driven by the change in carrying value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences. As of June 30, 2019, we maintained valuation allowance on deferred tax assets primarily related to net operating loss carryforwards. As of each reporting date, we consider new evidence, both positive and negative, that could affect our view of the future realization of deferred tax assets. Provisions included in federal and state tax laws, in particular alternative cost recovery methods for fixed assets applicable in future periods, can significantly impact the timing of deductions for tax purposes that may result in projected taxable income during the net operating loss carryforward periods. This projected taxable income would be a positive source of evidence. We believe that there is a reasonable possibility that within the next 12 months sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a portion of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to certain net operating losses will no longer be needed. Release of the valuation 43 Table of Contents allowance would result in the recognition of the deferred tax assets and a non-cash tax benefit for the period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release are subject to change depending on the results of operations and the timing of future taxable income. Segment Earnings - Wireless Wireless segment earnings are a function of wireless net operating revenues inclusive of wireless service revenue, the sale of wireless devices (handsets, tablets and wearables), broadband devices, connected devices, leasing wireless devices, and commissions on the device insurance and accessory programs. Combined with wireless net operating revenues, Wireless segment earnings are also a function of costs of equipment sales and rentals, costs to acquire subscribers, and network and interconnection costs to serve those subscribers, as well as other Wireless segment operating expenses. The cost of equipment sales and equipment rentals primarily includes equipment costs associated with our installment billing and subsidy programs, and loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net of recoveries, resulting from the write-off of leased devices where customers did not return the devices to us. The costs to acquire our subscribers also includes marketing and sales costs incurred to attract those subscribers. Network costs primarily represent switch and cell site costs, backhaul costs, and interconnection costs, which generally consist of per-minute usage fees and roaming fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireless segment include the costs to operate our customer care organization and administrative support. Wireless service revenue, costs to acquire subscribers, and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our subscriber base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short-term with these changes. As shown by the table above under "Consolidated Results of Operations," Wireless segment earnings represented almost all of our total consolidated segment earnings for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 . Within the Wireless segment, postpaid wireless services represent the most significant contributor to earnings and is driven by the number of postpaid subscribers utilizing our services, as well as average revenue per user (ARPU). The wireless industry is subject to competition to retain and acquire subscribers of wireless services. All markets in which we operate have high rates of penetration for wireless services, and we expect this competition and market penetration to continue to pressure our share of gross additions and rates of churn. Device Financing Programs We offer a leasing program whereby qualified subscribers can lease a device for a contractual period of time, and an installment billing program that allows subscribers to purchase a device by paying monthly installments, generally over 24 months. In July 2017, we introduced the Sprint Flex program, which gives customers the opportunity to enjoy their phone before deciding what option (upgrade, continue leasing, return or buy) works best for their lifestyle. Depending on device type, certain leases carry an option to upgrade to a new device annually prior to expiration of the lease. At the end of the lease term, the subscriber has the option to return the device, continue leasing the device, or purchase the device. As of June 30, 2019 , substantially all of our device leases were classified as operating leases and predominantly all of our subscribers choose to lease devices from us under the Sprint Flex program. As a result, the leased devices are classified as property, plant and equipment when leased to subscribers through Sprint's direct channels. For leases in the indirect channel, we purchase the devices at lease inception from the dealer, which are then capitalized to property, plant and equipment. Lease revenue is recorded monthly over the term of the lease and the cost of the device is depreciated to its estimated residual value, generally over the lease term. As these devices are classified as property, plant and equipment, the cost of the device is not recorded as cost of equipment sales compared to when sold under the installment billing or traditional subsidy program but rather is recorded as depreciation expense, which results in a significant positive impact to Wireless segment earnings. Depreciation expense incurred on leased devices for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 , was $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion , respectively. If the mix of leased devices within our subscriber base continues to increase, we expect this positive impact on the financial results of Wireless segment earnings to continue and depreciation expense to increase. Under the installment billing program, we recognize a majority of the revenue associated with future expected installment payments at the time of sale of the device to Sprint branded customers. As compared to our traditional subsidy program, this results in better alignment of the revenue with the cost of the device. The impact to Wireless earnings from the sale of devices under our installment billing program is neutral except for the impact from promotional offers. Our device leasing and installment billing programs require a greater use of cash flow in the early part of the device contracts as our subscribers will generally pay less upfront than through our traditional subsidy program. The accounts receivable facility discussed in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" partially mitigates the significant use of cash from purchasing devices from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to fulfill our leasing and installment billing programs. 44 Table of Contents Wireless Segment Earnings Trends Sprint offers lower monthly service fees without a traditional contract as an incentive to attract subscribers to certain of our service plans. These lower rates for service are available whether the subscriber brings their own device, pays the full or discounted retail price for the device, leases their device through our Sprint Flex leasing program, or purchases the device under our installment billing program. We expect our postpaid ARPU to decline in fiscal year 2019 due to the mix of devices resulting from higher data device sales, which generally have a lower ARPU than handsets, and continued promotional activities. Since inception, the combination of lower-priced plans and our leasing and installment billing programs have been accretive to Wireless segment earnings. We expect that trend to continue so long as we are able to attract subscribers, particularly postpaid handset subscribers. Additionally, we expect prepaid service revenue to decline in fiscal year 2019 due to the continued amortization of contract balances as a result of the adoption of Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). We began to experience net losses of postpaid handset subscribers in mid-2013. Since the release of our price plans associated with device financing options, results have shown improvement in trends of postpaid handset subscribers starting with the quarter ended September 30, 2015. However, we began to experience net losses of postpaid handset subscribers starting with the quarter ended September 30, 2018 through the current quarter. We continue to take initiatives to provide the best value in wireless service while continuing to enhance our network performance, coverage and capacity in order to attract and retain valuable handset subscribers. In addition, we continue to evaluate our cost model to operationalize the most effective cost structure but expect any improvements in 2019 to be fully offset by incremental costs associated with the network and customer experience initiatives. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireless segment. Three Months Ended June 30, Wireless Segment Earnings 2019 2018 (in millions) Postpaid $ 4,199 $ 4,188 Prepaid 843 982 Retail service revenue 5,042 5,170 Wholesale, affiliate and other 280 290 Total service revenue 5,322 5,460 Equipment sales 1,220 1,173 Equipment rentals 1,359 1,212 Total net operating revenues 7,901 7,845 Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (1,519 ) (1,429 ) Cost of equipment sales (1,341 ) (1,270 ) Cost of equipment rentals (exclusive of depreciation) (225 ) (124 ) Selling, general and administrative expense (1,779 ) (1,704 ) Total net operating expenses (4,864 ) (4,527 ) Wireless segment earnings $ 3,037 $ 3,318 Service Revenue Our Wireless segment generates service revenue from the sale of wireless services and the sale of wholesale and other services. Service revenue consists of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges and miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, international long distance and roaming, commissions on the device insurance program, late payment and administrative fees, and certain regulatory-related fees, net of service credits. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenue is primarily a function of: revenue generated from each subscriber, which is a function of the types and amount of services utilized by each subscriber and the rates charged for those services; and the number of subscribers that we serve, which is a function of our ability to retain existing subscribers and acquire new subscribers. 45 Table of Contents Retail comprises those subscribers to whom Sprint directly provides wireless services, whether those services are provided on a postpaid or a prepaid basis. We also categorize our retail subscribers as prime and subprime based on subscriber credit profiles. We use proprietary scoring systems that measure the credit quality of our subscribers using several factors, such as credit bureau information, subscriber credit risk scores and service plan characteristics. Payment history is subsequently monitored to further evaluate subscriber credit profiles. Wholesale and affiliates are those subscribers who are served through MVNO and affiliate relationships and other arrangements. Under the MVNO relationships, wireless services are sold by Sprint to other companies that resell those services to subscribers. Retail service revenue decreased $128 million , or 2% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to lower prepaid service revenue due to the continued amortization of contract balances as a result of the adoption of Topic 606, combined with lower average revenue per postpaid and prepaid subscribers driven by an increase in subscribers on lower price plans and promotional activities and lower prepaid subscribers. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in average postpaid subscribers. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues decreased $10 million , or 3% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to lower Lifeline revenue resulting from the continued amortization of contract balances as a result of the adoption of Topic 606, combined with lower fees earned under an accessories arrangement with Brightstar. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues associated with a reciprocal long-term lease agreement with T-Mobile. In September 2018, we signed a reciprocal long-term lease agreement with T-Mobile in which both parties have the right to use a portion of spectrum owned by the other party. Approximately 79% of our total wholesale and affiliate subscribers represent connected devices. These devices generate revenue which varies based on usage. Average Monthly Service Revenue per Subscriber and Subscriber Trends The table below summarizes average number of retail subscribers. Additional information about the number of subscribers, net additions (losses) to subscribers, and average rates of monthly postpaid and prepaid subscriber churn for each quarter since the quarter ended June 30, 2018 may be found in the tables below. Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 (subscribers in thousands) Average postpaid subscribers 32,883 32,050 Average prepaid subscribers 8,736 9,027 Average retail subscribers 41,619 41,077 The table below summarizes ARPU. Additional information about ARPU for each quarter since the quarter ended June 30, 2018 may be found in the tables on the following pages. Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 ARPU (1) : Postpaid $ 42.57 $ 43.55 Prepaid $ 32.15 $ 36.27 Average retail $ 40.38 $ 41.95 _______________________ (1) ARPU is calculated by dividing service revenue by the sum of the monthly average number of subscribers in the applicable service category. Changes in average monthly service revenue reflect subscribers for either the postpaid or prepaid service category who change rate plans, the level of voice and data usage, the amount of service credits which are offered to subscribers, plus the net effect of average monthly revenue generated by new subscribers and deactivating subscribers. Postpaid ARPU for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 decreased compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to lower service revenue resulting from increased promotional activities and higher data device sales which generally have a lower ARPU than handsets. Prepaid ARPU decreased for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to lower service revenue due to the continued amortization of contract balances as a result of the adoption of Topic 606 and from promotional activities. (See "Subscriber Results" below for more information.) 46 Table of Contents The following table shows (a) net additions (losses) of wireless subscribers, (b) our total subscribers, and (c) end of period connected device subscribers as of the end of each quarterly period beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2018. June 30, 2018 Sept 30, 2018 Dec 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 June 30, 2019 Net additions (losses) (in thousands) (1) Postpaid 123 109 309 169 134 Prepaid 3 (14 ) (173 ) (30 ) (169 ) Wholesale and affiliates (69 ) (115 ) (88 ) (147 ) (140 ) Total Wireless 57 (20 ) 48 (8 ) (175 ) End of period subscribers (in thousands) (1) Postpaid (2)(3)(4)(5) 32,187 32,296 32,605 32,774 33,075 Prepaid (3)(4) 9,033 9,019 8,846 8,816 8,647 Wholesale and affiliates (2)(4)(5)(6)(7) 13,347 13,232 13,044 12,897 12,590 Total Wireless 54,567 54,547 54,495 54,487 54,312 Supplemental data - connected devices End of period subscribers (in thousands) (2) Retail postpaid 2,429 2,585 2,821 3,121 3,453 Wholesale and affiliates 10,963 10,838 10,563 10,384 9,968 Total 13,392 13,423 13,384 13,505 13,421 _______________________ (1) A subscriber is defined as an individual line of service associated with each device activated by a customer. Subscribers that transfer from their original service category classification to another service category are generally reflected as a net loss to the original service category and a net addition to their new service category. There is no net effect for such subscriber changes to the total wireless net additions (losses) or end of period subscribers. (2) End of period connected devices are included in retail postpaid or wholesale and affiliates end of period subscriber totals for all periods presented. (3) During the three-month period ended June 30, 2018, we ceased selling devices in our installment billing program under one of our brands and as a result, 45,000 subscribers were migrated back to prepaid from postpaid. (4) As a result of our affiliate agreement with Shentel, certain subscribers have been transferred from postpaid and prepaid to affiliates. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2018, 10,000 and 4,000 subscribers were transferred from postpaid and prepaid, respectively, to affiliates. (5) During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019, one of our postpaid customers purchased a wholesale MVNO and as a result, 167,000 subscribers were transferred from the wholesale to the postpaid subscriber base. (6) Subscribers through some of our MVNO relationships have inactivity either in voice usage or primarily as a result of the nature of the device where activity only occurs when data retrieval is initiated by the end-user and may occur infrequently. Although we continue to provide these subscribers access to our network through our MVNO relationships, approximately 2,988,000 subscribers at June 30, 2019 through these MVNO relationships have been inactive for at least six months, with no associated revenue during the six-month period ended June 30, 2019 . (7) On April 1, 2018, 115,000 wholesale subscribers were removed from the subscriber base with no impact to revenue. During the three-month period ended December 31, 2018, an additional 100,000 wholesale subscribers were removed from the subscriber base with no impact to revenue. The following table shows our average rates of monthly postpaid and prepaid subscriber churn as of the end of each quarterly period beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2018. June 30, 2018 Sept 30, 2018 Dec 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 June 30, 2019 Monthly subscriber churn rate (1) Postpaid 1.63 % 1.78 % 1.85 % 1.81 % 1.74 % Prepaid 4.17 % 4.74 % 4.83 % 4.37 % 4.23 % _______________________ (1) Churn is calculated by dividing net subscriber deactivations for the quarter by the sum of the average number of subscribers for each month in the quarter. For postpaid accounts comprising multiple subscribers, such as family plans and enterprise accounts, net deactivations are defined as deactivations in excess of subscriber activations in a particular account within 30 days. Postpaid and Prepaid churn consist of both voluntary churn, where the subscriber makes his or her own determination to cease being a subscriber, and involuntary churn, where the subscriber's service is terminated due to a lack of payment or other reasons. The following table shows our postpaid and prepaid ARPU as of the end of each quarterly period beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2018. June 30, 2018 Sept 30, 2018 Dec 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 June 30, 2019 ARPU Postpaid $ 43.55 $ 43.99 $ 43.64 $ 43.25 $ 42.57 Prepaid $ 36.27 $ 35.40 $ 34.53 $ 33.67 $ 32.15 47 Table of Contents Subscriber Results Retail Postpaid During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , net postpaid subscriber additions were 134,000 compared to 123,000 in the same period in 2018 . Net subscriber results include tablet net additions of 31,000 during the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to net losses of 64,000 in the same period in 2018 and additions in other data devices of 231,000 and 100,000 during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , respectively, both of which generally have a significantly lower ARPU as compared to handset subscribers. The increase in net postpaid subscriber additions in the current quarter were primarily driven by net subscriber additions of other data devices and non-Sprint branded retail postpaid phones, partially offset by an increase in postpaid phone churn driven by subscribers exiting multi-line introductory promotional offers, competitive pressures and network-related churn. Marketing efforts by other wireless carriers, including price reduction, to incent subscribers to switch carriers also negatively impact churn, which has a negative effect on earnings. The Company's non-Sprint branded postpaid offering allows prepaid customers to purchase a device under our installment billing program. This program provides prepaid customers with access to this offer under their respective brands. Qualified customers on this non-Sprint branded postpaid offering receive an extension of credit to purchase their device. The subscriber will remain classified as postpaid at the conclusion of their installment billing payments. For the quarter ended June 30, 2019 , net subscriber additions and end of period subscribers under the non-Sprint branded postpaid plan offering were 116,000 and 670,000, respectively, and are included in total retail postpaid subscribers above. Retail Prepaid During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we lost 169,000 net prepaid subscribers compared to adding 3,000 in the same period in 2018 . The increase in net prepaid subscriber losses in the quarter was primarily due to lower gross additions as a result of exiting certain channels, combined with subscriber losses due to continued competitive pressures in the market. Wholesale and Affiliate Subscribers Wholesale and affiliate subscribers represent customers that are served on our networks through companies that resell our wireless services to their subscribers, customers residing in affiliate territories and connected devices that utilize our network. Of the 12.6 million subscribers included in wholesale and affiliates, approximately 79% represent connected devices. Wholesale and affiliate net subscriber losses were 140,000 during the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 compared to net losses of 69,000 during the same period in 2018 , inclusive of net losses of connected devices totaling 249,000 and 86,000 , respectively. The net losses in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 were primarily attributable to a decline in connected devices, partially offset by an increase in subscribers through our postpaid and prepaid resellers. Cost of Services Cost of services consists primarily of: costs to operate and maintain our networks, including direct switch and cell site costs, such as rent, utilities, maintenance, labor costs associated with network employees, and spectrum frequency leasing costs; fixed and variable interconnection costs, the fixed component of which consists of monthly flat-rate fees for facilities leased from local exchange carriers and other providers based on the number of cell sites and switches in service in a particular period and the related equipment installed at each site, and the variable component generally consists of per-minute use fees charged by wireline providers for calls terminating on their networks and fluctuates in relation to the level and duration of those terminating calls; long distance costs paid to other carriers; regulatory fees; roaming fees paid to other carriers; and fixed and variable costs relating to payments to third parties for the subscriber use of their proprietary data applications, such as messaging, music and cloud services and connected vehicle fees. Cost of services increased $90 million , or 6% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher network costs including cell site maintenance, software and costs associated with a reciprocal long-term lease agreement with T-Mobile, combined with an increase in roaming costs due to higher data volume. These increases were partially offset by lower roaming rates and declines in network labor and backhaul costs. Equipment Sales and Cost of Equipment Sales Our devices are sold to customers through installment billing and subsidy programs. We recognize equipment sales and corresponding costs of equipment sales when title and risk of loss passes to the indirect dealer or end-use subscriber, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Under the installment billing program, the device is 48 Table of Contents generally sold at full or a discounted retail price and we recognize most of the future expected installment payments at the time of sale of the device. Under the subsidy program, which has been de-emphasized, we offer certain incentives, such as new devices at heavily discounted prices, to retain and acquire subscribers. The cost of these incentives is recorded as a reduction to the total transaction price and allocated to performance obligations. Cost of equipment sales includes equipment costs (primarily devices and accessories), order fulfillment related expenses, and write-downs of inventory related to shrinkage and obsolescence. Additionally, cost of equipment sales is reduced by any rebates that are earned from the equipment manufacturers. Cost of equipment sales in excess of the net revenue generated from equipment sales is referred to in the industry as equipment net subsidy. As postpaid subscribers migrate from acquiring devices through our subsidy program to our leasing or installment billing programs, equipment net subsidy continues to decline. The net impact to equipment sales revenue and cost of equipment sales from the sale of devices under our installment billing program is relatively neutral except for the impact from promotional offers. Equipment sales increased $47 million , or 4% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase in equipment sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the number of postpaid devices sold and a higher average sales price per prepaid devices sold. These increases for the three-month period were partially offset by a lower average sales price per postpaid device sold and a decrease in the volume of used postpaid devices sold to third parties. Cost of equipment sales increased $71 million , or 6% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase in the three-month period was primarily due to an increase in postpaid devices sold and a higher average cost per prepaid devices sold, partially offset by a lower average cost per postpaid devices sold and a decrease in the volume of used postpaid devices sold to third parties. Equipment Rentals and Cost of Equipment Rentals Under our leasing program, we recognize revenue from equipment rentals over the term of the operating lease. Cost of equipment rentals includes losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net of recoveries, resulting from the write-off of leased devices. The losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net of recoveries, result from the write-off of leased devices associated with lease cancellations prior to the scheduled customer lease terms where customers did not return the devices to us. We expect to incur losses in future periods as a result of customers who do not return devices under our leasing program. We expect that the revenues derived from leasing our devices to customers will be less than the costs of the devices as the life of the device exceeds the contractual lease period. We offer the Sprint Flex program to customers as an additional option to purchase services utilizing our wireless network. While revenue derived from providing devices to customers contributes to our consolidated earnings, wireless service is the major contributor. Therefore, we believe the evaluation of the Company's central operations, which is to provide wireless service to customers, are best viewed at the consolidated level. Accordingly, we believe consolidated level metrics such as operating income and cash flows from operations are the best indicators of our overall ability to generate cash. Equipment rentals increased $147 million , or 12% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher revenue from the leasing program as more subscribers are choosing to lease their device and the mix of devices leased. Cost of equipment rentals increased $101 million , or 81% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to an increase in loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net of recoveries associated with non-returned leased devices. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of subscriber acquisition costs, including commissions paid to our indirect dealers, third-party distributors and retail sales force for new device activations and upgrades, residual payments to our indirect dealers, commission payments made to OEMs or other device distributors for direct source handsets, payroll and facilities costs associated with our retail sales force, marketing employees, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. Commission costs determined to be incremental, recoverable and directly associated with subscriber contracts are deferred and amortized to sales and marketing expense. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and administrative support activities, including collections, legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications, and strategic planning. Sales and marketing expenses increased $37 million , or 3% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher marketing spend. 49 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased $38 million , or 6% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase in the three-month period was primarily due to higher bad debt and customer care expenses, partially offset by a decline in other general and administrative expenses. Bad debt expense increased $59 million , or 102% , for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase in the three-month period was primarily related to higher installment billing reserves due to an increase in subscribers entering into installment billing contracts as a result of a recent market trial and an increase in service revenue bad debt. We reassess our allowance for doubtful accounts quarterly. Segment Earnings - Wireline We provide a suite of wireline communications services to other communications companies and targeted business customers. In addition, we provide data and IP communication services to our Wireless segment. We provide long distance services and operate all-digital global long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. Our services and products include domestic and international data communications using various protocols such as multiprotocol label switching technologies (MPLS), IP, managed network services, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), and Session Initiated Protocol (SIP). Our IP services can also be combined with wireless services. Such services include our Sprint Mobile Integration service, which enables a wireless handset to operate as part of a subscriber's wireline voice network, and our DataLink SM service, which uses our wireless networks to connect a subscriber location into their primarily wireline wide-area IP/MPLS data network, making it easy for businesses to adapt their network to changing business requirements. We continue to assess the portfolio of services provided by our Wireline business and are focusing our efforts on IP-based data services. Standalone voice services have been discontinued and we continue to de-emphasize and shutdown non-IP-based data services. Our Wireline segment markets and sells its services primarily through direct sales representatives. Wireline segment earnings are primarily a function of wireline service revenue, network and interconnection costs, and other Wireline segment operating expenses. Network costs primarily represent special access costs and interconnection costs, which generally consist of domestic and international per-minute usage fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireline segment include the costs to operate our customer care and billing organizations in addition to administrative support. Wireline service revenue and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our customer base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short-term with the changes in our customer usage. Our wireline services provided to our Wireless segment are generally accounted for based on market rates, which we believe approximate fair value. The Company generally re-establishes these rates at the beginning of each fiscal year. The impact of intercompany pricing rate changes to our Wireline segment earnings does not affect our consolidated results of operations as our Wireless segment has an equivalent offsetting impact in cost of services. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireline segment. Three Months Ended June 30, Wireline Segment Earnings (Loss) 2019 2018 (in millions) Total net service revenues $ 307 $ 338 Cost of services (262 ) (311 ) Selling, general and administrative expense (45 ) (69 ) Total net operating expenses (307 ) (380 ) Wireline segment earnings (loss) $ $ (42 ) Service Revenues Service revenues for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 decreased $31 million , or 9%, compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease was driven by fewer customers using IP-based data services. Costs of Services Costs of services include access costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic subscribers, costs to operate and maintain our networks, and costs of customer premise equipment. Costs of services decreased $49 million , or 16% , in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to lower access expense as the result of savings initiatives. 50 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $24 million , or 35% , in the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to lower shared administrative and employee-related costs required to support the Wireline segment as a result of the decline in revenue. Total selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net service revenues was 15% for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , as compared to 20% for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flow Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 2018 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,244 $ 2,430 Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,468 ) $ (4,369 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,887 ) $ (295 ) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $2.2 billion for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 decreased $186 million from the same period in 2018 . The change was primarily due to decreased cash received from customers of $239 million, partially offset by lower cash paid for interest of $60 million due to lower outstanding debt. Net cash provided by operating activities of $2.4 billion for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 increased $506 million from the same period in 2017. The increase was primarily due to $434 million of increased cash received from customers, of which $205 million is related to an increase in installment billing receivables collected due to an amendment to our Receivables Facility in February 2017, as all cash collected on the underlying receivables generated after the amendment is reflected in operating activities, as described below in Accounts Receivable Facility . Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $1.9 billion compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to the sale of short-term investments of $1.7 billion and decreased leased device purchases of $301 million. Net cash used in investing activities for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 increased by $3.4 billion compared to the same period in 2017 primarily due to increased net purchases of short-term investments of $2.7 billion and increased purchases of $458 million of leased devices. In addition, we had a decrease of $205 million due to an amendment to our Receivables Facility in February 2017, as all cash collected on the underlying receivables generated after the amendment is reflected in operating activities, as described below in Accounts Receivable Facility . Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $1.9 billion for the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 increased $1.6 billion compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in repayments of debt, financing and finance lease obligations. Total principal repayments include $1.7 billion, $800 million , $219 million and $105 million for the Sprint Capital Corporation 6.900% Senior Notes due 2019, Receivables Facility, the 2016 spectrum financing transaction and the secured equipment credit facilities, respectively. These payments were partially offset by Receivables Facility borrowings of $1.0 billion . Net cash used in financing activities was $295 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2018 . We made principal repayments of $1.1 billion, $219 million and $65 million for the Receivables Facility, the 2016 Spectrum Transaction and the secured equipment credit facilities, respectively. We also had Receivables Facility borrowings of $1.4 billion. Additionally, we paid $248 million in debt financing costs primarily due to fees related to the consent solicitations as a result of the Business Combination Agreement with T-Mobile. Working Capital We had negative working capital of $700 million and working capital of $776 million as of June 30, 2019 and March 31, 2019 , respectively. The change in working capital was primarily due to a decline in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments driven by the increase in repayments of debt, financing and finance lease obligations as described above. The remaining balance was due to changes to other working capital items. 51 Table of Contents Long-Term Debt and Other Funding Sources Our device leasing and installment billing programs require a greater use of operating cash flow in the early part of the device contracts as our subscribers will generally pay less upfront than through our traditional subsidy program. The Receivables Facility described below was designed to help mitigate the significant use of cash from purchasing devices from OEMs to fulfill our installment billing and leasing programs. Accounts Receivable Facility Our Receivables Facility provides us the opportunity to sell certain wireless service receivables, installment receivables, and future amounts due from customers who lease certain devices from us to unaffiliated third parties (the Purchasers). The maximum funding limit under the Receivables Facility is $4.5 billion . In February 2017, the Receivables Facility was amended and Sprint regained effective control over the receivables transferred to the Purchasers by obtaining the right, under certain circumstances, to repurchase them. Subsequent to the February 2017 amendment, all proceeds received from the Purchasers in exchange for the transfer of our wireless service and installment receivables are recorded as borrowings. Repayments and borrowings under the Receivables Facility are reported as financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. All cash collected on repurchased receivables subsequent to the February 2017 amendment was recognized in investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. In June 2018, the Receivables Facility was amended to, among other things, extend the maturity date to June 2020, increase the maximum funding limit by $200 million , reduce financing costs and add month-to-month lease receivables as eligible receivables for leases that extend past their original lease term. In June 2019, the Receivables Facility was further amended to extend the maturity date to February 2021. While we have the right to decide how much cash to receive from each sale, the maximum amount of cash available to us varies based on a number of factors and, as of June 30, 2019 , represents approximately 49% of the total amount of the eligible receivables sold to the Purchasers. As of June 30, 2019 , the total amount outstanding under our Receivables Facility was $2.8 billion and the total amount available to be drawn was $649 million . However, subsequent to June 30, 2019 , Sprint repaid $2.3 billion under the Receivables Facility reducing amounts outstanding to $537 million . During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we drew $1.0 billion and repaid $800 million to the Purchasers, which were reflected as financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Sprint contributes certain wireless service, installment and future lease receivables, as well as the associated leased devices, to Sprint's wholly-owned consolidated bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities (SPEs). At Sprint's direction, the SPEs have sold, and will continue to sell, wireless service, installment and future lease receivables to the Purchasers or to a bank agent on behalf of the Purchasers. Leased devices will remain with the SPEs, once sales are initiated, and continue to be depreciated over their estimated useful life. As of June 30, 2019 , wireless service, installment and lease receivables contributed to the SPEs and included in "Accounts and notes receivable, net" in the consolidated balance sheets were $2.6 billion and the long-term portion of installment receivables included in "Other assets" in the consolidated balance sheets was $248 million . As of June 30, 2019 , the net book value of devices contributed to the SPEs was $6.4 billion . Spectrum Financings In October 2016, certain subsidiaries of Sprint Communications, which were not "Restricted Subsidiaries" under Sprint Capital Corporation's indentures, transferred certain directly held and third-party leased spectrum licenses (collectively, Spectrum Portfolio) to wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities (collectively, Spectrum Financing SPEs). The Spectrum Portfolio, which represented approximately 14% of Sprint's total spectrum holdings on a MHz-pops basis, was used as collateral to raise an initial $3.5 billion in senior secured notes (2016 Spectrum-Backed Notes) bearing interest at 3.36% per annum under a $7.0 billion securitization program. The 2016 Spectrum-Backed Notes are repayable over a five -year term, with interest-only payments over the first four quarters and amortizing quarterly principal payments thereafter commencing December 2017 through September 2021. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we made scheduled principal repayments of $219 million , resulting in a total principal amount outstanding related to the 2016 Spectrum-Backed Notes of $2.0 billion as of June 30, 2019 , of which $875 million was classified as "Current portion of long-term debt, financing and finance lease obligations" in the consolidated balance sheets. In March 2018, we amended the transaction documents governing the securitization program to allow for the issuance of more than $7.0 billion of notes outstanding pursuant to the securitization program subject to certain conditions, which, among other things, may require the contribution of additional spectrum. Also in March 2018, we issued approximately $3.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes under the existing $7.0 billion securitization program, consisting of two series of senior secured notes. The first series of notes totaled $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount, bears interest at 4.738% per annum, have quarterly interest-only payments until June 2021, and amortizing quarterly principal amounts thereafter commencing in June 2021 through March 2025. The second series of notes totaled 52 Table of Contents approximately $1.8 billion in aggregate principal amount, bears interest at 5.152% per annum, have quarterly interest-only payments until June 2023, and amortizing quarterly principal amounts thereafter commencing in June 2023 through March 2028. The Spectrum Portfolio, which also serves as collateral for the 2016 Spectrum-Backed Notes, remains substantially identical to the original portfolio from October 2016. Simultaneously with the October 2016 offering, Sprint Communications entered into a long-term lease with the Spectrum Financing SPEs for the ongoing use of the Spectrum Portfolio. The spectrum lease is accounted for as an executory contract. Sprint Communications is required to make monthly lease payments to the Spectrum Financing SPEs at a market rate. The lease payments, which are guaranteed by Sprint Corporation and certain subsidiaries (none of which are "Restricted Subsidiaries" under Sprint Capital Corporation's indentures) of Sprint Communications (and are secured together with the obligations under another transaction document by substantially all of the assets of such entities on a pari passu basis up to an aggregate cap of $3.5 billion with the grant of security under the secured term loan and revolving bank credit facility and EDC (as defined below) agreement), are sufficient to service all outstanding series of the senior secured notes and the lease also constitutes collateral for the senior secured notes. Because the Spectrum Financing SPEs are wholly-owned Sprint subsidiaries, these entities are consolidated and all intercompany activity has been eliminated. Each Spectrum Financing SPE is a separate legal entity with its own separate creditors who will be entitled, prior to and upon the liquidation of the Spectrum Financing SPEs, to be satisfied out of the Spectrum Financing SPEs' assets prior to any assets of the Spectrum Financing SPEs becoming available to Sprint. Accordingly, the assets of the Spectrum Financing SPEs are not available to satisfy the debts and other obligations owed to other creditors of Sprint until the obligations of the Spectrum Financing SPEs under the spectrum-backed senior secured notes are paid in full. In June 2018, we obtained consent under the spectrum-backed senior secured notes indenture to amend the indenture such that the proposed merger transaction with T-Mobile, if consummated, will not constitute a change of control as defined in the indenture. Credit Facilities Secured Term Loan and Revolving Bank Credit Facility On February 3, 2017, we entered into a $6.0 billion credit agreement, consisting of a $4.0 billion , seven-year secured term loan (Initial Term Loan) that matures in February 2024 and a $2.0 billion secured revolving bank credit facility that expires in February 2021. The bank credit facility requires a ratio (Leverage Ratio) of total indebtedness to trailing four quarters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and other non-recurring items, as defined by the bank credit facility (adjusted EBITDA), not to exceed 3.75 to 1.0 through the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2019. The Leverage Ratio must not exceed 3.5 to 1.0 for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2020 and each fiscal quarter ending thereafter through expiration of the facility. The Initial Term Loan has an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus 250 basis points and the secured revolving bank credit facility has an interest rate equal to LIBOR plus a spread that varies depending on the Leverage Ratio. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we made principal repayments on the Initial Term Loan totaling $10 million resulting in a total principal amount outstanding for the Initial Term Loan of $3.9 billion as of June 30, 2019 . On November 26, 2018, the credit agreement was amended to, among other things, authorize Incremental Term Loans totaling $2.0 billion, of which $1.1 billion was borrowed. On February 26, 2019, the remaining $900 million was borrowed. The Incremental Term Loans mature in February 2024, have interest rates equal to LIBOR plus 300 basis points and increased the total credit facility to $8.0 billion. PRWireless Term Loan During the three-month period ended December 31, 2017, Sprint and PRWireless PR, Inc. completed a transaction to combine their operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands into a new entity. Prior to the formation of the new entity, PRWireless PR, Inc. had incurred debt under a secured term loan, which became debt of the new entity upon the transaction close. The secured term loan bears interest at 5.25% plus LIBOR and expires in June 2020. Any amounts repaid early may not be drawn again. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , the joint venture borrowed $2 million and made principal repayments of less than $1 million resulting in a total principal amount outstanding of $200 million as of June 30, 2019 . Sprint has provided an unsecured guarantee of repayment of the secured term loan obligations. The secured portion of the facility is limited to assets of the joint venture as the borrower. 53 Table of Contents Export Development Canada (EDC) Agreement As of June 30, 2019 , the EDC agreement provided for security and covenant terms similar to our secured term loan and revolving bank credit facility. However, under the terms of the EDC agreement, repayments of outstanding amounts cannot be redrawn. As of June 30, 2019 , the total principal amount outstanding under the EDC facility was $300 million . Secured equipment credit facilities Finnvera plc (Finnvera) The Finnvera secured equipment credit facility provided for the ability to finance network equipment-related purchases from Nokia Solutions and Networks US LLC, USA. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we made principal repayments totaling $13 million on the facility resulting in a total principal amount of $79 million outstanding as of June 30, 2019 . K-sure The K-sure secured equipment credit facility provides for the ability to finance network equipment-related purchases from Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC. In October 2018, we amended the secured equipment credit facility to extend the borrowing availability through September 2019. Such borrowings are contingent upon the amount and timing of network equipment-related purchases made by Sprint. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we made principal repayments totaling $72 million on the facility resulting in a total principal amount of $378 million outstanding as of June 30, 2019 . Delcredere | Ducroire (D/D) The D/D secured equipment credit facility provided for the ability to finance network equipment-related purchases from Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. In September 2017, we amended the secured equipment credit facility to restore previously expired commitments of $150 million. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2019 , we made principal repayments totaling $20 million on the facility resulting in a total principal amount of $99 million outstanding as of June 30, 2019 . Borrowings under the Finnvera, K-sure and D/D secured equipment credit facilities are each secured by liens on the respective network equipment purchased pursuant to each facility's credit agreement. In addition, repayments of outstanding amounts borrowed under the secured equipment credit facilities cannot be redrawn. Each of these facilities is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by both Sprint Communications and Sprint Corporation. As of June 30, 2019 , the K-sure facility had $96 million of available borrowing capacity, and the Finnvera and D/D facilities had no available borrowing capacity. As of June 30, 2019 , our Leverage Ratio, as defined by our secured revolving bank credit facility was 2.9 to 1.0 . Because our Leverage Ratio exceeded 2.5 to 1.0 at period end, we were restricted from paying cash dividends. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2019 , our liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, available borrowing capacity under our secured revolving bank credit facility and availability under our Receivables Facility was $7.4 billion . Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $4.9 billion as of June 30, 2019 compared to $7.0 billion as of March 31, 2019 . As of June 30, 2019 , we had availability of $1.9 billion under the secured revolving bank credit facility. Amounts available under our Receivables Facility as of June 30, 2019 totaled $649 million . Additionally, as of June 30, 2019 , we had available borrowing capacity of $96 million under our K-sure secured equipment credit facility. However, utilization of this facility is dependent upon the amount and timing of network equipment-related purchases from the applicable supplier and the associated availability under the facility. As of June 30, 2019 , we offered two device financing programs that allow subscribers to forgo traditional service contracts and pay less upfront for devices in exchange for lower monthly service fees, early upgrade options, or both. While a majority of the revenue associated with the installment billing program is recognized at the time of sale along with the related cost of equipment sales, lease revenue associated with our leasing program is recorded monthly over the term of the lease and the cost of the device is depreciated to its estimated residual value generally over the lease term, which creates a positive impact to Wireless segment earnings. If the mix of leased devices continues to increase, we expect this positive impact on the financial results of Wireless segment earnings to continue and depreciation expense to increase. The leasing and installment billing programs will continue to require a greater use of cash flows in the earlier part of the contracts as the subscriber will generally pay less upfront than through our traditional subsidy program because they are financing the device. The Receivables Facility was established to help mitigate the use of cash from purchasing devices from OEMs to fulfill our leasing and installment billing programs. 54 Table of Contents To meet our liquidity requirements, we look to a variety of sources. In addition to our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from operating activities, we raise funds as necessary from external sources. We rely on our ability to issue debt and equity securities, the ability to access other forms of financing, including debt financing, some of which is secured by our assets, proceeds from the sale of certain accounts receivable and future lease receivables, proceeds from future financing transactions, such as spectrum, and the borrowing capacity available under our credit facilities to support our short- and long-term liquidity requirements. We believe our existing available liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our funding requirements over the next twelve months, including debt service requirements and other significant future contractual obligations. To maintain an adequate amount of available liquidity and execute our current business plan, which includes, among other things, network deployment and maintenance, subscriber growth, data usage capacity needs and the expected achievement of a cost structure intended to improve profitability and to meet our long-term debt service requirements and other significant future contractual obligations, we will need to continue to raise additional funds from external sources. If we are unable to obtain external funding, fail to operationalize the most effective cost structure, or are unsuccessful in attracting valuable subscribers such as postpaid handset subscribers, our operations could be adversely affected, which may lead to defaults under certain of our borrowings. Depending on the amount of any difference in actual results versus what we currently expect, it may make it difficult for us to generate sufficient earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and other non-recurring items (adjusted EBITDA) to remain in compliance with our financial covenants or be able to meet our debt service obligations, which could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, or adversely impact our ability to raise additional funding through the sources described above, or both. If such events occur, we may engage with our lenders to obtain appropriate waivers or amendments of our credit facilities or refinance borrowings, or seek funding from other external sources, although there is no assurance we would be successful in any of these actions. A default under certain of our borrowings could trigger defaults under certain of our other financing obligations, which in turn could result in the maturities being accelerated. Certain indentures and other agreements governing our financing obligations require compliance with various covenants, including covenants that limit the Company's ability to sell certain of its assets, limit the Company and its subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness and liens, and require that we maintain certain financial ratios, each as defined by the terms of the indentures, related supplemental indentures and other agreements. Our ability to obtain additional financing, including monetizing certain of our assets or to modify the terms of our existing financing, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, may require T-Mobiles consent under the contractual restrictions contained in the Business Combination Agreement. In determining our expectation of future funding needs in the next twelve months and beyond, we have made several assumptions regarding: projected revenues and expenses relating to our operations, including those related to our installment billing and leasing programs; anticipated levels and timing of capital expenditures, including assumptions regarding lower unit costs, network capacity additions and upgrades, and the deployment of new technologies in our networks, FCC license acquisitions, and purchases of leased devices; scheduled principal payments on debt, credit facilities and financing obligations, including $28.7 billion coming due over the next five fiscal years; cash needs related to our device financing programs; availability under the Receivables Facility, which terminates in February 2021; availability of our $2.0 billion secured revolving bank credit facility, which expires in February 2021; remaining availability of $96 million of our secured equipment credit facility for eligible capital expenditures, and any corresponding principal, interest, and fee payments; raising additional funds from external sources; the expected use of cash and cash equivalents in the near-term; any additional contributions we may make to our pension plan; estimated residual values of devices related to our device leasing program; and other future contractual obligations and general corporate expenditures. 55 Table of Contents Our ability to fund our needs from external sources is ultimately affected by the overall capacity and availability in the banking and securities markets, and the availability of other financing alternatives, as well as our performance and our credit ratings. Given our recent financial performance as well as the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely but may be limited in our ability to maintain financial flexibility at a reasonable cost of capital or at all. The outlooks and credit ratings from Moody's Investor Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings for certain of Sprint Corporation's outstanding obligations were: Rating Rating Agency Issuer Rating Unsecured Notes Guaranteed Notes Secured Bank Credit Facility Spectrum Notes Outlook Moody's B2 B3 B1 Ba2 Baa2 Watch Positive Standard and Poor's B B B+ BB- N/A Watch Developing Fitch B+ B+ BB BB+ BBB Watch Positive FUTURE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS With the adoption of Topic 842 on April 1, 2019, Sprint elected the hindsight practical expedient in determining the lease term. Upon adoption of the standard, our expected lease term for our cell sites was shortened to the initial non-cancelable term only. Historically, we included renewal assumptions in our lease term if the non-cancelable term was less than ten years and the corresponding payments were reflected in our future contractual obligations. This change resulted in a decrease to future contractual obligations of approximately $1.6 billion. There have been no significant changes to our future contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2019 . Below is a graph depicting our future principal maturities of debt as of June 30, 2019 . * This table excludes (i) our $2.0 billion secured revolving bank credit facility, which will expire in 2021 and has no outstanding balance, (ii) $120 million in letters of credit outstanding under the secured revolving bank credit facility, (iii) $406 million of finance leases and other obligations, and (iv) net premiums and debt financing costs. OFF-BALANCE SHEET FINANCING As of June 30, 2019 , we did not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated special purpose entities. 56 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Sprint applies those accounting policies that management believes best reflect the underlying business and economic events, consistent with U.S. GAAP. Inherent in such policies are certain key assumptions and estimates made by management. Management regularly updates its estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements based on its latest assessment of the current and projected business and general economic environment. See Note 7. Leases in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a full discussion of critical accounting policies related to the adoption of Topic 842. Additional information regarding the Company's Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates is included in Item 7. of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2019 . FINANCIAL STRATEGIES General Risk Management Policies Our board of directors has adopted a financial risk management policy that authorizes us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with the policy. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes with the exception of equity rights obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common shares. Derivative instruments are primarily used for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activities may be done for various purposes, including, but not limited to, mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approval and review processes, credit support agreements, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. Exposure to market risk is controlled by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. OTHER INFORMATION We routinely post important information on our website at www.sprint.com/investors . Information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this report. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in our annual, quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect management's judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, subscriber and network usage, subscriber growth and retention, technologies, products and services, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events, and the economic and regulatory environment. Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: Merger Transaction: the failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, required regulatory approvals for the Merger Transaction, and the risk that such approvals may result in the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the Merger Transaction, or the failure to satisfy any of the other conditions to the Merger Transaction on a timely basis or at all; the occurrence of events that may give rise to a right of one or both of the parties to terminate the Business Combination Agreement; the diversion of management and financial resources toward the completion of the Merger Transaction; adverse effects on the market price of our common stock or on our or T-Mobiles operating results because of a failure to complete the Merger Transaction in the anticipated timeframe or at all; 57 Table of Contents inability to obtain the financing contemplated to be obtained in connection with the Merger Transaction on the expected terms or timing; the ability of us, T-Mobile and the combined company to make payments on debt, repay existing or future indebtedness when due, comply with the covenants contained therein or retain sufficient business flexibility; adverse changes in the ratings of our or T-Mobiles debt securities or adverse conditions in the credit markets; negative effects of the announcement, pendency or consummation of the Merger Transaction on the market price of our common stock and on our or T-Mobiles operating results, including as a result of changes in key customer, supplier, employee or other business relationships; potential conflicts of interests between our directors and executive officers and our stockholders; significant costs related to the Merger Transaction, including financing costs, and unknown liabilities; failure to realize the expected benefits and synergies of the Merger Transaction in the expected timeframes or at all; costs or difficulties related to the integration of our and T-Mobiles networks and operations; the risk of litigation or regulatory actions related to the Merger Transaction, including the antitrust litigation brought by the Attorneys General of 14 states and the District of Columbia; the inability of us, T-Mobile or the combined company to retain and hire key personnel; the risk that certain contractual restrictions contained in the Business Combination Agreement during the pendency of the Merger Transaction could adversely affect our or T-Mobiles ability to pursue business opportunities or strategic transactions; Business: our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or to obtain T-Mobiles consent under the contractual restrictions contained in the Business Combination Agreement; our ability to continue to receive the expected benefits of our existing financings; failure to improve our ability to retain and attract subscribers and to manage credit risks associated with our subscribers; the effective implementation of our 5G network, including timing, scale, execution, technologies, costs, spectrum availability, and performance of our network; ability to continue to access spectrum and acquire additional spectrum, including certain low-band frequencies; failure to improve subscriber churn, bad debt expense, accelerated cash use, costs and write-offs, including with respect to changes in expected residual values related to any of our devices; the ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fully implement our 5G network and service plans, improve our operating margins, implement our business strategies, and provide competitive new technologies; our ability to deploy a nationwide 5G network on the scale and on the timeline necessary for us to compete effectively with our competitors, if the Merger Transaction is not consummated; our ability to have the scale necessary to successfully compete; our ability to maintain a sufficiently large subscriber base necessary to support the needs of a competitive nationwide wireless network and the associated high costs; the effects of vigorous competition on a highly penetrated market, including the impact of competition on the prices we are able to charge subscribers for services and devices we provide and on the geographic areas served by our network; the impact of installment sales and leasing of handsets; the overall demand for our service plans, including the impact of decisions of new or existing subscribers between our service offerings; and the impact of new, emerging, and competing technologies on our business; our ability to provide the desired mix of integrated services to our subscribers; changes in available technology and the effects of such changes, including product substitutions and deployment costs and performance; 58 Table of Contents volatility in the trading price of our common stock, including as a result of the Merger Transaction, current economic conditions, and our ability to access capital; the impact of various parties not meeting our business requirements, including a significant adverse change in the ability or willingness of such parties to provide service and products, including distribution, or infrastructure equipment for our network; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new geographic markets; the effects of the Merger Transaction or any other future merger or acquisition involving us, as well as the effect of mergers, acquisitions, and consolidations, and new entrants in the communications industry, and unexpected announcements or developments from others in our industry; our ability to comply with restrictions imposed by the U.S. Government as a condition to our merger with SoftBank; the effects of any material impairment of our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; the impacts of new accounting standards or changes to existing standards that the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies issue, including the SEC; unexpected results of litigation filed against us or our suppliers or vendors; the costs or potential customer impact of compliance with regulatory mandates including any government regulation regarding "net neutrality" or data privacy; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts or breaches of network or information technology security; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political, economic, or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes, or other external factors over which we have no control; the impact of being a "controlled company" exempt from many corporate governance requirements of the NYSE; and other risks referenced from time to time in this report and other filings of ours with the SEC, including Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2019 . The words "may," "could," "should," "estimate," "project," "forecast," "intend," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "target," "plan" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. Readers are cautioned that other factors, although not listed above, could also materially affect our future performance and operating results. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.