Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business MetricsCustomers with ARR of $100,000 or More. Seasonality We experience seasonal fluctuations in our financial results due to the annual budget approval process of many of our customers. We typically receive a higher percentage of our annual orders from new customers, as well as renewal orders from existing customers, in our fourth fiscal quarter as compared to other quarters due to the annual budget approval process of many of our customers. 15 Table of Contents Human Capital Resources Our Team As of January 31, 2025, we had over 2,800 full-time employees worldwide. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed to support our operations. Our U.S.-based employees include team members in all key functions, including go-to-market, customer success, technology, product, and support. Each of our U.S. offices has a different functional focus but shares a driven, customer-centric culture. Our headquarters in Mountain View, California is where the majority of our executive, marketing, finance, legal, people and talent, and sales operations team members are located, which supports cross-functional collaboration. Our office in Tel Aviv, Israel benefits from Israels concentration of cybersecurity experts. This team draws from a deep pool of Israeli military cybersecurity and intelligence experts, product mavens, and general technical talent. Our office in Prague, Czech Republic houses research and product development functions to augment current teams across the globe and the expansion of our global engineering organization. Our European headquarters is in Amsterdam, Netherlands, which we chose for its talent pool, language versatility, diversity, labor and tax laws, and central location in relation to our offices in the U.S. and Israel. Our Dubai office is primarily focused on go-to-market activities in the Middle East and Africa and supports our new business efforts in connecting with both customers and partners across these regions. Our Bangalore, India office houses engineering talent as well as support functions across general, administrative and go-to-market. The economic climate in India continues to expand with endless potential. We are excited to continue our investment across this beautiful country. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are a party to a collective bargaining arrangement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe that our employee relations are strong. Our Culture Our mission is to Secure TomorrowTM and our purpose is to be a Force for Good. Our core values are at the foundation of our inclusive culture and guide our approach on how we build and grow our business with all stakeholders: Trust. Be dependable. Conduct yourself with the highest integrity at all times. Accountability. Be reliable in all your actions and words. Put customers first. Be the owner. OneSentinel. Be passionate about driving team success and collaboration across our company. Relentlessness. Act with unwavering purpose and determination in everything you do. Ingenuity. Encourage innovative approaches to problem-solving and market leadership. Embrace diverse perspectives. Hustle. Community. Be kind to one another. Think about how your actions will affect others. Together. Our employee value proposition was designed using feedback from employees around the globe. It is our promise to all Sentinels and candidates on what to expect while working at SentinelOne. Here you will drive innovation, pushing the boundaries of cybersecurity to determine whats next. Here you will build your future, with amazing benefits and tools to grow. Here you will enjoy your work, in a culture that is built on equal opportunity, integrity and autonomous action. 16 Table of Contents We value transparent and respectful communication as key components of our continuous feedback culture, something that we view as a key driver of our business success. We benefit from the varied perspectives that come from our global workforce. We believe in the strengths of diversity and are committed to building out a diverse talent base. We plan to continue investing in hiring employees both in and outside of the U.S. We received multiple workplace accolades in 2024. Fortune recognized SentinelOne as a Fortune Future 50 company, Best Workplace in Technology, Best Workplace for Parents, Best Workplace in the Bay Area. Duns 50 list acknowledged SentinelOne as one of the Best High Tech Companies to Work for in 2024 and as a Best High Tech Companies to work for Parents. U.S. News & World Report recognized SentinelOne as a Best Companies To Work For, Best Companies to Work For in IT, Software & Services and Best Companies to Work For in the West. Built In acknowledged SentinelOne as a 2024 Best Places to Work Remote. SentinelOne also achieved Great Place to Work certification (December 2024 - December 2025) for the U.S., U.K., France, India, Netherlands, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica, Japan, Slovakia, Germany, Italy, UAE, Poland, Spain, Czechia, and Singapore. SentinelOne received the Best Workplaces in Tech in the U.K., Best Workplaces for Wellbeing in the U.K., Best Workplaces in Technology in Spain, Best Workplaces in Technology in GCC, Best Workplaces in Technology in Australia, and Best Workplaces in Poland. Our presence and engagement across all social media platforms continue to grow rapidly, a reflection of the markets perception of us and our leadership as innovators in the cybersecurity space. We pride ourselves on offering employees an award-winning culture centered around trust and integrity, as together, we work to defeat every cyberattack with autonomous technology. Retention and Talent Development We believe that motivating and retaining talent at all levels is vital to our success. Our compensation and benefits program is intended to anticipate and meet the needs of our employees. In addition to base salary, these programs, which vary by country and region, include bi-annual bonuses, equity awards, an employee stock purchase plan, a 401(k) plan, including a 401(k) match in the U.S., healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, unlimited vacation, wellness reimbursement, 16 weeks of gender-neutral parental leave and more. We have increased our investment in training and development and have rolled out several key programs as well as enabling our employees to access over 1,000 on-demand webinars in technical and soft skills areas. We continue to globally align our benefits to focus on business continuity and employee well-being. We have been very intentional with our efforts to support employees while working from home and in their return to the office. Further, we have enhanced and promoted programs to support employees physical and mental health and well-being. We have built a company that we believe thrives whether our employees are in offices or remote. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing, and delivery of new technologies, features and integrations of our platform, as well as the continued improvement and iteration of our existing products. It is also responsible for operating and scaling our platform including its underlying infrastructure. Our most significant investments are in research and development to drive core technology innovation and bring new products to the market. Research and development employees are located primarily in our Israel, India, and Czech Republic offices, and remotely. 17 Table of Contents We have a proven team that works to expand our market, customer and user reach and impact with new, innovative products. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend our platform and products. Our Go-To-Market Strategy Our sales and marketing organizations partner to create brand awareness, drive demand, and develop customer relationships to deliver strong sales pipeline coverage and revenue growth. Sales Our direct sales team, which is composed of field sales and inside sales professionals, sells subscriptions to our Singularity Platform by leveraging our global network of channel and alliance partners for prospect access and fulfillment. For specific market segments, our channel partners independently manage the complete sales cycle resulting in a highly scaled and leveraged sales experience. Our sales team also identifies existing customers who may be interested in free trials of additional platform modules, which serves as a powerful driver of our land and expand growth model. Through segmenting our sales teams by customer size, we can deploy an efficient and scalable sales model which enables rapid prospect engagement, thorough technology evaluations, and yields lasting customer relationships. Marketing Our marketing organization is focused on building our brand reputation, increasing the awareness of our platform, and driving prospect and customer demand. To support these efforts, we deliver broad-based brand campaigns to build awareness of our solutions and our company. We also deliver targeted and situational content to demonstrate thought leadership in the security industry, including speaking engagements with the security industrys foremost organizations to provide expert advice, educating the public about cyber threats, and identifying threat research discoveries that illustrate the business outcomes and differentiation of our solution. We engage in paid media, web marketing, out of home media advertising, industry and trade conferences, analyst engagements, producing whitepapers, demand generation via digital and web, telemarketing, and targeted displacement campaigns. We employ a wide range of digital programs, including search engine marketing, online and social media initiatives, and content syndication to increase traffic to our website and encourage new customers to request an expertly guided trial of our Singularity Platform. Additionally, we engage in joint marketing activities with our channel and alliance partners. Over the past several years, we have experienced significant increases in our brand relevance as demonstrated by coverage in leading global press, analyst publications, website traffic, web demo requests, and channel partner engagement. Partnership Ecosystem We work with a number of partners to create better together technology solutions for mutual customers, many of which we then leverage in joint go-to-market strategies. These partnerships include many of the leading ISVs, alliance partners, MSPs, MSSPs, MDRs, OEMs, and IR firms. We provide our partners with our differentiated technology and platform to enable them to provide the best security service to their own customers. Our Singularity Platform offers our partners complete multi-tenancy and a superior level of management capability and flexibility with tiering, policy inheritance, and customizable role-based access control from the same console. Our data model and open architecture enable our partners to rapidly build and innovate across a wide range of use cases and deliver their products on top of our technology. As such, our partners are not our competitors but instead, act as force multipliers for our go-to-market investments. Our partner integrations deliver more secure solutions and an improved end user experience to their customers. Our ISV and alliance partnerships focus on security analytics, network and infrastructure security, threat platforms and orchestration, automation, and other mainstream technology integrations. 18 Table of Contents Singularity Marketplace Singularity Marketplace is an open application ecosystem that enables customers to seamlessly integrate dozens of applications. Organizations can gain visibility over data across historically disparate security solutions without the need for custom business logic, coding, or complex configuration. Organizations can integrate any security applications and tools regardless of vendor into a single platform without coding or scripting required. Singularity Marketplace extends the power of our platform across the entire security and IT stack to build an effective threat defense posture with layered security, collaborative processes, and integrated products. Singularity Marketplace enables security teams to converge on a single pane-of-glass for extended detection and response workflows to minimize context switching and distractions during triage and incident response. It helps them gain insights from shared security events without requiring a massive time investment in custom business logic, code, and complex configuration. It allows security teams to drive a unified, orchestrated response among security tools in different domains. Competition The market for our solutions is competitive and characterized by an evolving IT environment, customer requirements, industry standards, frequent new product and service offerings, and improvements. We compete with an array of established and emerging security solution vendors. Our competitors include the following: endpoint security providers, such as CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc. (CrowdStrike) and Carbon Black (within Broadcom, Inc.); legacy antivirus providers such as Trellix (formerly McAfee Corp.), Symantec (a subsidiary of Broadcom, Inc.) (Symantec), and Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft); providers of general network security products and services who offer a broad portfolio of solutions, such as Palo Alto Networks, Inc. (Palo Alto Networks); SIEM providers such as Cisco Systems, Inc. (formerly Splunk) and Elastic; and providers of cloud security, such as Wiz, Inc. (pending acquisition by Google Cloud). We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including but not limited to our: ability of our technology to detect, prevent, and block threats; breadth of our functionality; ability to automate threat prevention and remediation with limited human intervention; performance of our platform; speed of our threat hunting capabilities; support for cloud, hybrid, and on-premise deployments; support for various operating systems; platform data retention capabilities; ability to integrate with other participants in the security ecosystem; ease of use to deploy, manage, and maintain our platform; quality of our MDR service; 19 Table of Contents strength of sales, marketing, and channel partner relationships; and customer support. Although certain of our competitors enjoy greater brand awareness and recognition, deep customer relationships, and larger existing customer bases, we believe that we compete favorably with respect to our autonomous and AI-powered threat prevention, detection, response, and hunting capabilities. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, patents, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, domain names, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention or work product assignment agreements with our officers, employees, agents, contractors, and business partners to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of January 31, 2025, we had 82 issued patents and 35 pending patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These patents and patent applications seek to protect our proprietary inventions relevant to our business. These issued patents are scheduled to expire on or around the years between 2034 and 2044 and cover various aspects of our platform and technology. As of January 31, 2025, we had 12 trademark registrations in the U.S., including registrations for SentinelOne and our logo. We also had 94 trademark registrations and applications in certain foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we are the registered holder of a number of domain names, including sentinelone.com and dataset.com. Government Regulation We are subject to many varying laws and regulations in the U.S., the United Kingdom (U.K.), the European Union (E.U.), and throughout the world, including those related to privacy, data protection, intellectual property, AI, consumer protection, marketing, advertising, employment and labor, competition, customs and international trade, taxation, and more. As we grow and expand our geographical reach, we may become subject to additional regulations in the U.S. and internationally. These laws often require companies to implement specific information security controls to protect certain types of information, such as personal data. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended in a manner that could harm our current or future business. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and could, individually or in the aggregate, increase our cost of doing business, impact our competitive position relative to our peers, and/or otherwise adversely affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. However, we believe we are currently in material compliance with such laws and regulations to which we are subject and do not currently expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. See the section titled Risk Factors for additional information about the laws and regulations we are subject to and the risks of our business associated with such laws and regulations. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the State of Delaware as Sentinel Labs, Inc. in January 2013. We changed our name to SentinelOne, Inc. in March 2021. Our principal executive offices are located at 444 Castro Street, Suite 400, Mountain View, California 94041. Our telephone number is (855) 868-3733. SentinelOne, the SentinelOne logo, and other registered or common law trade names, trademarks, or service marks of SentinelOne appearing in this prospectus are the property of SentinelOne. This prospectus contains additional trade names, trademarks, and service marks of ours and of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names, trademarks, or service marks to imply a relationship with these other companies, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by these other companies. Other trademarks appearing in this prospectus are the property of their respective holders. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and trade names 20 Table of Contents referred to in this prospectus appear without the and symbols, but those references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights, or the right of the applicable licensor, to these trademarks and trade names. Available Information We file electronically with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file with the SEC electronically. We will make available on our website at www.sentinelone.com, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We use our investor relations page on our website (www.sentinelone.com), press releases, public conference calls, public webcasts, our X account (@SentinelOne), our Facebook page, and our LinkedIn page as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The information disclosed by the foregoing channels could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those risks more fully described below. These risks include, among others, the following, which we consider our most material risks: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history at our current scale, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. We have a history of losses, anticipate increases in our operating expenses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitability, our business, operating results, and financial condition will be adversely affected. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Adverse global macroeconomic conditions or reduced information technology spending could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. A security incident against us or our third-party vendors and service providers, whether actual, alleged, or perceived, would harm our reputation, create liability, and regulatory exposure, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Defects, errors, or vulnerabilities in our platform, the failure of our platform to block malware or prevent a security breach, misuse of our platform, or risks of product liability claims would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Existing and future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we are unable to retain our customers, renew and expand our relationships with them, and add new customers, or our partners are unable to execute on their purchasing commitments, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If our platform is not effectively interoperated within our customers IT infrastructure, deployments could be delayed or canceled, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Disruptions or other business interruptions that affect the availability of our platform could adversely affect our customer relationships and overall business. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to timely and cost-effectively scale and adapt our existing technology to meet our customers performance and other requirements. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners and alliance partners, or if our channel partners or alliance partners fail to perform, our ability to market, sell and distribute our platform will be limited, and our business, operating results, and financial condition will be harmed. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to the privacy and data protection of the personal data or other information we collect, process or share. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws or regulations could harm our business. Complying with laws and regulations related to privacy and data protection could result in additional costs and liabilities to us, especially as new laws or regulations are enacted, change or are subject to various interpretations. Risks Related to Our People We rely on our management team and other key employees and will need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to hire, integrate, train, manage, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, including members of our board of directors, could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our platform without compensating us. Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that our platform infringes their intellectual property rights, and this may create liability for us or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with certain stockholders who held our capital stock prior to the completion of our IPO, including our directors, executive officers, and other beneficial owners who hold in the aggregate approximately 48% of the voting power of our capital stock, which will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors and the approval of any change of control transaction. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history at our current scale, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. As a result of our limited operating history at our current scale and the introduction of new products in recent years, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described herein. Any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history at our current scale or operated in a more predictable or established market. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or change due to fluctuations in our markets or otherwise, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing these and other challenges we 23 Table of Contents may face in the future. The risks associated with having a limited operating history may be exacerbated by current macroeconomic conditions. We have a history of losses, anticipate increases in our operating expenses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitability, our business, operating results, and financial condition will be adversely affected. We have incurred net losses in all periods since our inception, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We experienced a net loss of $288.4 million and $338.7 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. As of January 31, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.6 billion. While we have historically experienced significant growth in revenue, we cannot predict when or whether we will reach or maintain profitability. We also expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we continue to invest in our future growth, including expanding our research and development function to drive further development of our platform, expanding our sales and marketing activities, developing the functionality to expand into adjacent markets, and reaching customers in new geographic locations, which could negatively affect our operating results if our total revenue does not increase. In addition to the anticipated costs to grow our business, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses as a public company. Our revenue growth is expected to slow as we scale and our revenue may decline for a number of other reasons, including reduced demand for our platform, increased competition, a decrease in the growth or reduction in the size of our overall market, or if we cannot capitalize on growth opportunities, including acquisitions, new products, services, and feature releases. While we consistently evaluate opportunities to reduce our operating costs and optimize efficiencies, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful or that we will not re-accelerate operating expenditures in the future in order to capitalize on growth opportunities. If we fail to increase our revenue to offset increases in our operating expenses, or manage our costs as we invest in our business, we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. The market for cybersecurity products and services is intensely competitive, fragmented and is rapidly evolving, characterized by changes in technology, customer requirements, industry standards, increasingly sophisticated attackers, and frequent introductions of new or improved products and services. We expect to continue to face intense competition from current competitors, as well as from new entrants into the market, as our competitors complete strategic acquisitions or form cooperative relationships and/or customer requirements evolve. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these challenges, our competitive position could weaken, and we would experience a decline in revenue or reduced revenue growth, and loss of market share that would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. For a description of our competitors, see the section titled BusinessCompetition. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: our ability to attract and retain new customers, expand our platform or sell additional products and services to our existing customers; our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate talented employees; our ability to successfully incorporate new technologies into our platform, including generative AI; the budgeting cycles, seasonal buying patterns, and purchasing practices of our customers, including any slowdown in technology spending due to U.S. and general global macroeconomic conditions; general global macroeconomic and political conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets that could impact some or all regions where we operate, including the changes in U.S. federal spending, changes in tariffs and trade restrictions, global economic slowdowns, actual or perceived global banking and finance related issues, increased risk of inflation, interest rate volatility, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, and potential global recession; 24 Table of Contents the impact of natural or man-made global events on our business, including regional geopolitical conflicts around the world; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs price competition; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or customers and strategic partnerships entered into by and between our competitors changes in our mix of products, subscriptions and services sold, including changes in the average contract length for subscriptions and support our ability to successfully and continuously expand our business domestically and internationally; changes in the growth rate of endpoint security, cloud security, and overall cybersecurity product platform and services sectors; deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new or enhanced products and services announced by us or our competitors significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to the use of our platform; the timing and costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, businesses, or strategic partnerships our ability to execute, complete, or efficiently integrate any acquisitions that we may undertake increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities, or write-downs and any impact on our operating results from any acquisitions we consummate our ability to increase the size and productivity of our distribution channels decisions by potential customers to purchase security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could increase due to U.S. and global macroeconomic issues, including actual or perceived global banking and finance related issues, inflation, interest rate volatility, and market downturns, which would adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our platform, products, and services in a timely manner or at all; the cost and potential outcomes of litigation or other proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies and increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, and other resources, greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and a larger base of customers than we do. Our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can, and they may offer lower pricing than we do or bundle certain competing products and services at lower prices. Our competitors may also have greater resources for research and development of new technologies, customer support and to pursue acquisitions, or they may have other financial, technical, or other resource advantages. Our larger competitors have substantially broader and more diverse product and service offerings and more mature distribution 25 Table of Contents and go-to-market strategies, which allow them to leverage their existing customer and distributor relationships to gain business in a manner that discourages potential customers from purchasing our platform. Conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, including but not limited to increased advancements and proliferation in the use of open artificial intelligence applications, partnering or acquisitions by our competitors or continuing market consolidation. Some of our competitors have recently made or could make acquisitions of businesses or have established cooperative relationships that may allow them to offer more directly competitive and comprehensive products and services than were previously offered and adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer orders, reduced revenue and gross margin, increased net losses, and loss of market share. Even if there is significant demand for endpoint and cloud security solutions like ours, if our competitors include functionality that is, or is perceived to be, equivalent to or better than ours in legacy products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of an organizations IT security architecture, we will have difficulty increasing the market penetration of our platform. Furthermore, even if the functionality offered by other cybersecurity providers is different and more limited than the functionality of our platform, organizations may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of purchasing products and services from additional vendors like us. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take aggressive action with respect to pricing or other actions, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period in the past, and we expect that our operating results will continue to vary significantly in the future such that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. This could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Accordingly, our financial results in any one quarter should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. Fluctuations in quarterly results may negatively impact the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including, without limitation: general global macroeconomic and political conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets that could impact some or all regions where we operate, including the changes in U.S. federal spending, changes in tariffs and trade restrictions, global economic slowdowns, actual or perceived global banking and finance related issues, increased risk of inflation, interest rate volatility, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages and potential global recession; the impact of natural or man-made global events on our business, including regional geopolitical conflicts around the world; our ability to attract new and retain existing customers or sell additional features to existing customers; the budgeting cycles, seasonal buying patterns, and purchasing practices of customers; including decisions by organizations to purchase security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary IT equipment vendors and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our solution the timing and length of our sales cycles; changes in customer or channel partner requirements or market needs; changes in the growth rate of the cybersecurity market generally and market for endpoint security; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us, or any other competitive developments, including consolidation among our customers or competitors and changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; 26 Table of Contents the level of awareness of cybersecurity threats, particularly advanced cyberattacks, and the market adoption of our platform; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally, including the impact of the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our business; any disruption in our relationship with ISVs, channel partners, MSPs, MSSPs, MDRs, OEMs, and IR firms; significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the use of our platform or other cybersecurity incidents; extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments or outcomes, taxes, regulatory fines or penalties; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies or practices; negative media coverage or publicity; and increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we experience seasonal fluctuations in our financial results as we typically receive a higher percentage of our annual orders from new customers, as well as renewal orders from existing customers, in our fourth fiscal quarter as compared to other quarters due to the annual budget approval process of many of our customers. Any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other operating results from period to period. As a result of this variability, our historical operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Moreover, this variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our operating plan or the expectations of investors or analysts for any period. If we fail to meet such expectations for the reasons described above or other reasons, our stock price could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action lawsuits. Adverse global macroeconomic conditions or reduced information technology spending could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. In addition, the purchase of our platform is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak global and regional economic conditions, including the changes in U.S. federal spending, changes in tariffs and trade restrictions, U.S. and global macroeconomic issues, actual or perceived global banking and finance related issues, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, fluctuating interest rates and inflation, spending environments, geopolitical instability, warfare and uncertainty, weak economic conditions in certain regions or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macroeconomic conditions, including the effects of the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, and tensions between China and Taiwan, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, including resulting in longer sales cycles, a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain new customers or expand our platform or sell additional products and services to our existing customers, lower prices for our platform, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced sales to new or existing customers and slower or declining growth. For example, as a result of current uncertainty in macroeconomic conditions and related higher cost consciousness around IT budgets, we have experienced certain impacts on our business, including a decline in usage and consumption patterns from certain customers, especially larger enterprise customers, longer sales cycles, and deal downsizing by new customers and of renewals by existing customers, especially larger enterprises. We expect the global macroeconomic conditions impacting demand to persist in the near term. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We are investing in expanding our platform, including our cloud security products, and it is difficult to predict adoption and demand. We are meaningfully investing in our platform, including growing our cloud security product. For example, in February 2024, we acquired PingSafe, a cloud security platform, which we expect will enable us to couple PingSafes CNAPP with our cloud workload security and cloud data security capabilities and Stride, a workflow automation tool that will enable us to further our autonomous platform vision. It is difficult to predict customer adoption and demand for our platform, the size and growth rate of this market, the entry of competitive products and services or the success of existing competitive products and services. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with, and customer adoption of, our platform. If the market for our platform does not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for our software or our services caused by a lack of customer acceptance, implementation challenges for deployment, technological challenges, competing technologies and services, decreases in corporate spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders and decreased revenue, which would adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. Our platform interoperates with, but does not necessarily replace, other security and log analytics products. Businesses that use other cybersecurity products and services may be hesitant to purchase our platform if they believe their existing products and services provide a level of security that is sufficient to meet their needs. If we do not succeed in convincing customers that our platform should be an integral part of their overall approach to security, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all, which would have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If businesses do not continue to adopt our platform for any of the reasons discussed above or for other reasons not contemplated, our sales would not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all, and our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not be successful in our artificial intelligence initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. We incorporate generative AI into many of our offerings, including Purple AI which streamlines threat hunting across various types of data and synthesizes threat intelligence and insights in natural language. As with many innovations, generative AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could impact our successful ability to incorporate the use of generative AI in our business. For example, language models may provide flawed results or misinterpret prompts. Further, data practices by us or others that result in controversy could also impair the acceptance of AI solutions. This in turn could undermine confidence in the decisions, predictions, analyses or other content that our AI initiatives produce. Our generative AI solutions are reliant on third-party foundation models that may change their availability or commercial model in a manner that negatively affects our offering. Furthermore, the integration of third-party AI models with our products and services relies on certain safeguards implemented by the third-party developers of the underlying AI models, including those related to the accuracy, bias, and other variables of the data and their safeguards may be insufficient. In addition, our competitors or other third parties may incorporate generative AI solutions into their products more successfully than us, and their solutions may achieve higher market acceptance than ours, which may result in us failing to recoup our investments in developing generative AI-powered offerings. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our AI technology, including in Purple AI. Our ability to employ AI, or the ability of our competitors to do so more successfully, may negatively impact our gross margins, impair our ability to compete effectively, result in reputational harm and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Further, we have, and may in the future, implement AI-based tools and solutions, including third-party software solutions, in order to, among other things, drive efficiencies in our business, IT systems and other internal processes and improve customer support. If these tools and solutions do not achieve their expected benefits or if such tools and solutions have defects, bugs, errors, or vulnerabilities, our business may be adversely impacted. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, AI may give rise to litigation risk, including potential intellectual property, privacy, or cybersecurity liability. Because AI is an emerging technology, there is not a mature body of case law construing the appropriateness of certain of its uses of data whether through the employment of large language models or other models leveraging data found on the Internet and the evolution of this law may limit our ability to exploit AI tools, or expose us to litigation. Further, AI presents emerging ethical issues and if our use of AI algorithms draws controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, we may experience brand or reputational harm, or competitive harm. In addition, given the complex nature of AI technology, we face an evolving regulatory landscape. The U.S. federal government, various state legislatures and other government entities worldwide have implemented and are in the process of implementing specific laws, regulations, policies and obligations relating to the use of AI, and we will need to continue to monitor these developments to ensure our products that we sell to government entities remain compliant with such applicable regulations. Furthermore, the current administrations approach to investment in and regulation of AI is expected to deviate from that of the previous administration and we will need to adapt to any resulting changes, including new or revised executive orders and initiatives. Moreover, we are subject to significant competition from other companies, some of which have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, professional services, or other resources than us. Our competitors may incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our financial results. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, reputation, or financial results. A security incident against us, or our third-party vendors and service providers, whether actual, alleged, or perceived, would harm our reputation, create liability and regulatory exposure, and adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Companies are subject to an increasing number and wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. Traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as viruses and worms), phishing attempts, ransomware, account takeover, business email compromise, employee fraud, theft or misuse, denial of service attacks, and sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors engage in intrusions and attacks that create risks for our internal networks, cloud deployed products and the information they store and process. Cybersecurity companies face particularly intense attack efforts, and we have faced, and will continue to face, cyber threats and attacks from a variety of sources. The research that we conduct and report may make us, or our customers, a further target for attacks of all kinds. We provide security services to many highly targeted entities, such as U.S. government agencies, defense contractors, and non-U.S. governments. Our work protecting these entities increases the likelihood that we may be targeted by nation-state actors, including those from countries with a history of conducting cyber operations against such organizations. State-supported and geopolitical-related cyberattacks may rise in connection with regional geopolitical conflicts such as the conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, and tensions between China and Taiwan. In addition, our cybersecurity product is likely considered a valuable target for lateral attacks because of its highly privileged access. Additionally, bad actors are beginning to utilize AI-based tools to execute attacks, creating unprecedented cybersecurity challenges. Although we have implemented security measures designed to prevent such attacks, our networks and systems, and those of our third-party vendors and service providers may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, human error, insufficient cybersecurity controls, malfeasance, a combination of these, or otherwise, and as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our and/or our customers systems, networks, or data. We and our third-party vendors and service providers may face difficulties or delays in identifying or otherwise responding to any attacks or actual or potential security breaches or threats. These risks are exacerbated by developments in generative AI. A breach in our or in our third-party vendors and service providers data security or an attack against our platform or our third-party vendors or service providers platform could impact our networks or the networks and data of our customers that are secured by our platform, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and providing access to malicious parties to information stored on our networks or the networks of our customers, resulting in data being publicly disclosed, misused, altered, lost, or stolen, which could subject us to liability and adversely affect our financial condition. If compromised, our own systems or the systems of our third-party vendors and service providers could be used to facilitate or magnify an attack. Further, the trend towards remote and hybrid work by 29 Table of Contents companies and individuals in has generally increased the attack surface available to bad actors for exploitation, and as such, the risk of a cybersecurity incident potentially occurring has increased. We have accordingly increased our investments in protective measures and risk mitigation strategies, but we cannot guarantee that our efforts, or the efforts of our third-party vendors and service providers or efforts of others upon whom we rely and partner with, will be successful in preventing any such information security incidents. Protecting our own assets has become more expensive from a dollar investment and time perspective and these costs may increase as the threat landscape increases, including as a result of the use of AI by bad actors. Any actual, alleged, or perceived security breach in our systems or networks or those of our third-party vendors and service providers, or any other actual, alleged or perceived data security incident we suffer, could result in damage to our reputation, negative publicity, loss of customers and sales, loss of competitive advantages over our competitors, increased costs to remedy any problems and otherwise respond to any incident, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, fines and penalties, costly litigation, and other liability. We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability under laws, regulations, and contracts that protect the privacy and security of personal data. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended (CCPA), imposes a private right of action for security breaches of personal data that could lead to some form of remedy including regulatory scrutiny, fines, private right of action settlements, and other consequences. Where a security incident involves a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data from the European Economic Area (EEA) or the U.K. in respect of which we are a controller or processor under the E.U. or U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (collectively, the GDPR), this could result in fines of up to 20 million (17.5 million) or 4% of annual global turnover, whichever is greater. We may also be required to provide notice of such breaches to regulators and/or individuals which may result in us incurring additional costs, penalties, fines or litigation. In addition, our customer agreements may require us to promptly report security breaches to our customers involving their data on our systems or those of third-party vendors or subcontractors processing such data on our behalf. This mandatory disclosure could be costly, result in litigation, harm our reputation, erode customer trust, and require significant resources to mitigate issues stemming from actual or perceived security breaches. Further, some of our customers may also be subject to the E.U. Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), which requires them to impose contractual provisions on us, including certain mandatory third-party risk management provisions. If we fail to materially comply with these contractual requirements, we may be subject to litigation, investigations, audits or other adverse consequences. We may also incur significant financial and operational costs to investigate, remediate, eliminate and put in place additional tools and devices designed to prevent actual or perceived security breaches and other security incidents, as well as costs to comply with any notification obligations resulting from any security incidents. Any of these negative outcomes could adversely affect the market perception of our platform and customer and investor confidence in our company, and would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Defects, errors, or vulnerabilities in our platform, the failure of our platform to block malware or prevent a security breach, misuse of our platform, or risks of product liability claims would harm our reputation and adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our platform and product features are multi-faceted, rely on third-party software and infrastructure, and may be deployed with material defects, vulnerabilities, software bugs or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment to our customers. Vulnerabilities may be exploited by malicious actors and material defects may prevent our software from operating correctly or detecting malicious software. From time to time, certain of our customers and external researchers have reported defects in our platform related to performance, scalability, and compatibility. In addition, customers may request a software bill of materials where we disclose an inventory of software used by the customer along with potential defects and vulnerabilities. Our platform and product features also provide our customers with the ability to customize a multitude of settings, and administer devices on the applicable computing environment, and it is possible that a customer, partner or internal services team member could misconfigure or misuse our platform or otherwise fail to configure our products in an optimal manner. Such defects and misconfigurations of our platform could cause our platform to operate at suboptimal efficacy, cause it to fail to secure customers computing environments and detect and block threats, or temporarily 30 Table of Contents interrupt our customers computing environments. We also make frequent updates to our platform, which may fail or be deployed incorrectly resulting in temporary vulnerability, or a material defect or downtime in our customer environments. In addition, because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage target computing environments change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, there is a risk that an advanced attack could emerge that our platform is unable to detect or prevent. Furthermore, as a well-known provider of security solutions and because security solutions are highly privileged in customers environments, our networks, platform, products, including cloud-based technology, and customers could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business, harm our reputation or use our technology to gain unauthorized access. In addition, regional geopolitical conflicts around the world, may result in increased cyberattacks against our customers, resulting in an increased risk of a security breach of our customers systems. In addition, defects or errors in our platform could result in a failure to effectively update customers cloud-based products. Our data centers and networks may experience technical failures and downtime, may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or may fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base, any of which could temporarily or permanently expose our customers computing environments, leaving their computing environments unprotected against cyber threats. Any of these situations could result in negative publicity to us, damage our reputation, and increase expenses and customer relations issues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses and other developments with software generally used online may increase the risk we will suffer a security breach. Furthermore, our platform may fail to detect or prevent malware, ransomware, viruses, worms or similar threats for any number of reasons, including our failure to enhance and expand our platform to reflect industry trends, new technologies and new operating environments, the complexity of the environment of our clients and the sophistication of malware, viruses and other threats. Our platform may fail to detect or prevent threats in any particular test for a number of reasons. Our platform may fail to interoperate or conflict with customer environments causing customer downtime. We or our service providers may also suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personal data, financial account information, and other confidential information due to employee error, rogue employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or who commit an inadvertent mistake or social engineering. If we experience, or our service providers experience, any breaches of security measures or sabotage or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personal data, financial account information or other confidential information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to address these problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all. To the extent potential customers, industry analysts or testing firms believe that the failure to detect or prevent any particular threat is a flaw or indicates that our platform does not provide significant value, our reputation and business would be harmed. Any real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our platform, or any other failure of our platform to detect an advanced threat, could result in: a loss of existing or potential customers; delayed or lost revenue and adverse impacts to our business, operating results, and financial condition a delay in attaining, or the failure to attain, market acceptance the expenditure of significant financial and research and development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects, and address and eliminate vulnerabilities an increase in resources devoted to customer service and support, which could adversely affect our gross margin negative impact on our customers operations; harm to our reputation or brand and claims and litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations, enforcement actions, and other claims and liabilities, all of which may be costly and burdensome and further harm our reputation. 31 Table of Contents Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are launched against a target, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Moreover, if a high-profile cybersecurity incident occurs with respect to another SaaS provider, customers may lose trust in the security of the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. Further, if another cybersecurity vendor were to experience a defect, error, or vulnerability, fail to detect a cybersecurity incident, or to cause interruptions in the networks of their customers, customers may lose trust in cybersecurity companies generally, including our platform, which could adversely affect our business, including our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. In the last few years there have been many successful advanced cybersecurity incidents that have damaged several prominent companies despite strong information security measures. We expect that the risks associated with cybersecurity incidents and the costs of preventing such attacks will continue to increase in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any limitation of liability provisions in our customer agreements, contracts with third-party vendors and service providers, or other contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim relating to a security breach or other security-related matter or as a result of federal, state, or local laws or ordinances, or unfavorable judicial decisions in the U.S., or other countries. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our platform, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation, divert managements time and other resources, and harm our reputation. We also cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any future claim will not be excluded or otherwise be denied coverage by any insurer. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Existing and future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and expect to continue to make investments in and/or acquire complementary companies, services, products, technologies, or talent. For example, in February 2024 we acquired both PingSafe, a cloud security platform, and Stride, a security automation company. We have also invested in certain privately held companies through our S Ventures fund, and we may not realize a return on these investments. All of our venture investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital. Our ability as an organization to acquire and integrate other companies, services or technologies in a successful manner is not guaranteed. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. Our due diligence efforts may fail to identify all of the challenges, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings involved in an acquisition. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or ability to achieve our business objectives, and any acquisitions we announce or complete could be viewed negatively by our customers or investors. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating existing and future acquisitions, or the technologies and personnel associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and operating results of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, and we may not be able to manage the process successfully. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired technology or personnel, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, causing unanticipated write-offs or accounting charges. Additionally, integrations could take longer than expected, or if we move too quickly in trying to integrate an acquisition, strategic investment, partnership, or other alliance, we may fail to achieve the desired efficiencies. 32 Table of Contents We have, and may in the future have, to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our Class A common stock. The sale of equity or issuance of debt to finance any such acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders, which depending on the size of the acquisition, may be significant. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Additional risks we may face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of managements time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; the inability to coordinate research and development and sales and marketing functions; the inability to integrate product and service offerings; retention of key employees from the acquired company; changes in relationships with strategic partners or the loss of any key customers or partners as a result of product acquisitions or strategic positioning resulting from the acquisition; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired companys accounting, customer relationship management, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked sufficiently effective controls, procedures and policies; unexpected security risks or higher than expected costs to improve the security posture of the acquired company; higher than expected costs to bring the acquired companys IT infrastructure up to our standards; additional legal, regulatory, or compliance requirements; financial reporting, revenue recognition or other financial or control deficiencies of the acquired company that we dont adequately address and that cause our reported results to be incorrect; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from or against terminated employees, customers, current and former stockholders, or other third parties. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our customers, renew and expand our relationships with them, and add new customers, or our partners are unable to execute on their purchasing commitments, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Historically, we have experienced rapid growth in the adoption of our platform, customer base, and revenue. However, we may not return to our prior growth rates or grow at the same rate in the future. Any success that we may experience in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to, among other things: maintain, renew and expand our existing customer base; continue to attract new customers; induce customers to expand deployment of the initially adopted module(s) of our platform across their organizations and infrastructure, and to adopt additional modules of our platform and services; improve the capabilities of our platform through research and development; successfully execute on partner purchasing commitments; continue to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and successfully compete with other companies in the cybersecurity industry. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscription for our platform after the expiration of their contractual subscription period, which is generally one to three years, and in the normal course of business, some customers have elected not to renew. In addition, our customers may renew for shorter contract subscription lengths or cease using certain features. Our customer retention and expansion may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our services, our pricing, customer security and networking issues and requirements, our customers spending levels, our channel partner strategy and pricing, decreases in the number of endpoints to which our customers deploy our solution, mergers and acquisitions involving our customers, industry developments, competition, general economic conditions, or the perceived decline in the incidence of cyberattacks. If our efforts to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers are not successful, our business, operating results, and financial condition will materially suffer. If our platform is not effectively interoperated within our customers IT infrastructure, deployments could be delayed or canceled, which would adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our platform must effectively interoperate with our customers existing IT infrastructure, which often has different specifications, utilizes multiple protocol standards, deploys products and services from multiple vendors, and contains multiple generations of products and services that have been added over time. As a result, our solutions can sometimes encounter interoperability issues on deployment or over time, which require additional support and problem solving with customers, in some cases, at a substantial cost to us. We may modify our software or introduce new capabilities so that our platform interoperates with a customers infrastructure. These issues could cause longer deployment and integration times for our platform, leading to customer churn, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, government and other customers may require our platform to comply with certain security or other certifications and standards. If we are unable to achieve, or are delayed in achieving, compliance with these certifications and standards, we may be disqualified from selling our platform to such customers, or may otherwise be at a competitive disadvantage, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Disruptions or other business interruptions that affect the availability of our platform could adversely impact our customer relationships and overall business. Our platform is hosted by third-party cloud hosting providers including AWS. Our software and systems are designed to use computing, storage capabilities, bandwidth, and other services provided by such cloud hosting providers, and currently our cloud service infrastructure is primarily run on AWS. We have experienced, and expect in the future that we may experience from time to time, interruptions, delays or outages in service availability due to a variety of factors. Capacity constraints could arise from a number of causes such as technical failures, natural disasters, fraud, or security attacks. The level of service provided by our cloud hosting providers, or regular or prolonged interruptions in that service, could also impact the use of, and our customers satisfaction with, our platform and could harm our business and reputation. In addition, hosting costs are expected to increase as our customer base grows, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, AWS has discretion to change and interpret its terms of service and other policies with respect to us, including on contract renewal, and those actions may be unfavorable to our business operations. AWS, and other cloud hosting providers, may also take actions beyond our control that could seriously harm our business, including discontinuing or limiting our access to one or more services, increasing pricing terms, competing with us, terminating or seeking to terminate our contractual relationship altogether, or altering how we are able to process data on their system in a way that is unfavorable or costly to us. Although we obtain services from other cloud hosting providers, if our current arrangement with AWS were to be terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our content available to customers, as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging for expansion and transition to alternative cloud hosting and infrastructure services. Such a transition could require further technical changes to our platform, including, but not limited to, our cloud service infrastructure which was initially designed to run on AWS. Making such changes could be costly in terms of time and financial resources. Any of these factors could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause our customers to decline to renew their subscriptions, any of which would harm our business and operating results. We may not timely and cost-effectively scale and adapt our existing technology to meet our customers performance and other requirements. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to meet the needs of new customers and the expanding needs of our existing customers as their use of our solutions grows. As our customers gain more experience with our platform, the number of endpoints and events, the amount of data transferred, processed and stored by us, and the number of locations where our platform is being accessed, have in the past, and may in the future, expand rapidly. In order to meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue to make significant investments to increase capacity and to develop and implement new technologies in our service and cloud infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include databases, applications, and server optimizations, network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. In addition, it takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. In some circumstances, we may also determine to scale our technology through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, which may divert managements time and resources. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our operations to meet the needs of our growing customer base and to maintain performance as our customers expand their use of our solution, we will not be able to grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce or cancel use of our solutions and we will be unable to compete as effectively and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we do not accurately anticipate and promptly respond to changes in our customers technologies, business plans or security needs, our competitive position and prospects will be adversely impacted. The cybersecurity market has grown quickly and is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. Moreover, many of our customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require 35 Table of Contents them to add numerous network-connected endpoints and adapt to increasingly complex IT environments, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems, and networking protocols. As their technologies and business plans grow more complex, we expect these customers to face new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack. We face significant challenges in ensuring that our platform effectively identifies and responds to these advanced and evolving attacks, including as a result of the evolving AI landscape. As a result of the continued rapid innovations in the technology industry, including the rapid growth of smartphones, tablets and other devices, enterprise employees using personal devices for work, the rapidly evolving IoT and AI, we expect the networks of our customers to continue to change rapidly and become more complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, enhancements to our platform that adequately address the changing needs of our customers. In addition, any enhancements to our platform could involve research and development processes that are more complex, expensive and time-consuming than we anticipate. We may experience unanticipated delays in the availability of enhancements to our platform and may fail to meet customer expectations with respect to the timing of such availability. If we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our customers by developing and releasing updates to our platform on a timely basis that can adequately respond to advanced threats and our customers evolving needs, our business, operating results, and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand and our reputation as a leading provider of endpoint and platform security solutions is critical to our relationship with our existing customers, channel partners, and alliance partners and our ability to attract new customers and partners. The successful promotion of our brand will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to develop additional features for our platform, our ability to successfully differentiate our platform from competitive cloud-based or legacy security solutions, our marketing efforts, and, ultimately, our ability to detect and stop breaches. Although we believe it is important for our growth, our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue. Under certain circumstances, our employees may have access to our customers platforms. An employee may take advantage of such access to conduct malicious activities. Any such misuse of our platform could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, which could result in harm to our business, reputation, and operating results. In addition, independent industry and research firms often evaluate our solutions and provide reviews of our platform, as well as the products of our competitors, and perception of our platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors products, our brand may be adversely affected. Our solutions may fail to detect or prevent threats in any particular test for a number of reasons that may or may not be related to the efficacy of our solutions in real world environments. To the extent potential customers, industry analysts or research firms believe that the occurrence of a failure to detect or prevent any particular threat is a flaw or indicates that our solutions or services do not provide significant value, we may lose customers, and our reputation, financial condition and business would be harmed. Moreover, the performance of our channel partners and alliance partners may affect our brand and reputation, as it could negatively impact our reputation if customers do not have a positive experience with these partners. In addition, we have in the past worked, and continue to work, with high profile customers and have assisted in analyzing and remediating high profile cyberattacks. Our work with such customers has exposed us to publicity and media coverage. Negative publicity about us, including about our management, the efficacy and reliability of our platform, our product offerings, our professional services, and the customers we work with, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and brand. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners and alliance partners, or if our channel partners or alliance partners fail to perform, our ability to market, sell and distribute our platform will be limited, and our business, operating results, and financial condition will be harmed. Substantially all of our sales are fulfilled through our channel partners, including resellers, distributors, MSPs, MSSPs, MDRs, OEMs, and IR firms, and we expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenue from channel partners for the foreseeable future. Our agreements with our channel partners generally are non-exclusive, do not last for set terms, and may be terminated by either party at any time. Further, the majority of channel partners fulfill our sales on a purchase order basis and do not impose minimum purchase requirements or related terms on sales. We also have several large MSSP, OEM and reseller partnerships with multi-year purchasing commitments. Additionally, we have entered, and intend to continue to enter, into alliance partnerships with third parties to support our future growth plans. The loss of a substantial number of our channel partners or alliance partners, the failure to recruit additional partners, or failure of partners to meet their purchasing commitments would adversely affect our business, operating results, key financial metrics and financial condition. To the extent our partners are unsuccessful in selling our platform, or if we are unable to enter into arrangements with and retain a sufficient number of high-quality partners in each of the regions in which we sell or plan to sell our platform, we are unable to keep them motivated to sell our platform, or our partners shift focus to other vendors and/or our competitors, our ability to sell our platform and operating results will be harmed. To the extent our partners fail to meet their purchasing commitments, they may fail to pay us or attempt to renegotiate our agreements and we risk churn in forecast metrics. The termination of our relationship with any significant partner may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our ability to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners and in training our channel partners to independently sell and deploy our platform. We are also exposed to credit and liquidity risks and our operating results will be harmed if our partners were to become unable or unwilling to pay us at all or in a timely manner, terminate their relationships with us or go out of business. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate such risks, we cannot guarantee these programs will be effective in reducing our risks. If we are unable to adequately control these risks, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be harmed. If partners fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements or we are otherwise unable to collect on our accounts receivable from these partners, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. Our partners may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be further impacted by consolidation of our existing channel partners. In such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity, and our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be more limited. We may also become increasingly dependent on a more limited number of channel partners, as consolidation increases the relative proportion of our business for which each channel partner is responsible, which may magnify the risks described in the preceding paragraphs. Our business depends, in part, on sales to government organizations, and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of such government organizations could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our future growth depends, in part, on increasing sales to government organizations. Demand from government organizations is often unpredictable and subject to budgetary uncertainty. We have made significant investments to address the government sector, but we cannot assure you that these investments will be successful, or that we will be able to maintain or grow our revenue from the government sector. Although we anticipate that they may increase in the future, sales to government organizations have not accounted for, and may never account for, a significant portion of our revenue. Sales to government organizations are subject to a number of challenges and risks that may adversely affect our business and operating results, including the following risks: selling to government agencies can be highly competitive, expensive, and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that such efforts will generate a sale; 37 Table of Contents government certification, software supply chain or source code transparency requirements applicable to us or our platform may change and, in doing so, restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained the revised certification or meet other new requirements. For example, although we are currently FedRAMP authorized, such authorization is costly to maintain and subject to rigorous compliance and if we lose our authorization, it will restrict our ability to sell to government customers; government demand and payment for our platform may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our platform, including as a result of sudden, unforeseen and disruptive events such as government shutdowns, government defaults on indebtedness, war, regional geopolitical conflicts around the world, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters, and public health concerns or epidemics; governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our platform, which would adversely impact our revenue and operating results, or institute fines or civil or criminal liability if an investigation, audit, or other review, were to uncover improper or illegal activities; governments may require certain products to be manufactured, produced, hosted or accessed solely in their country or in other relatively high-cost locations, and we may not produce or host all products in locations that meet these requirements, affecting our ability to sell these products to government agencies; and refusal to grant certain certifications or clearance by one government agency, or decision by one government agency that our products do not meet certain standards, may cause reputational harm and cause concern with other government agencies. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause government organizations to delay or refrain from purchasing our solutions in the future or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, on January 20, 2025, President Donald Trump announced an executive order establishing the Department of Government Efficiency in an effort to maximize government efficiency and productivity. Pressures on and uncertainty surrounding the U.S. federal governments budget and potential changes in budgetary priorities, could adversely affect the funding for and purchases of our platform by government organizations. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sale of our platform to customers located outside of the U.S. and our current, and any further, expansion of our international operations exposes us to risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are generating a growing portion of our revenue outside of the U.S., and conduct our business activities in various foreign countries, including some emerging markets where we have limited experience, where the challenges of conducting our business can be significantly different from those we have faced in more developed markets and where business practices may create internal control risks including: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could add volatility to our operating results; new, or changes in, regulatory requirements; tariffs, export and import restrictions, restrictions on foreign investments, sanctions, and other trade barriers or protection measures; exposure to numerous, increasing, stringent (particularly in the E.U.), and potentially inconsistent laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, information security and AI; costs of localizing products and services (including, but not limited to data localization requirements); lack of acceptance of localized products and services; the need to make significant investments in people, solutions and infrastructure, typically well in advance of revenue generation; 38 Table of Contents challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs; difficulties in maintaining our corporate culture with a dispersed and distant workforce due to the trend towards hybrid working; treatment of revenue from international sources, evolving domestic and international tax environments, and other potential tax issues, including with respect to our corporate operating structure and intercompany arrangements; different or weaker protection of our intellectual property, including increased risk of theft of our proprietary technology and other intellectual property; economic weakness or currency-related crises; compliance with multiple, conflicting, ambiguous or evolving government laws and regulations, including employment, tax, data privacy, anti-corruption, import/export, antitrust, data transfer, storage and protection, and industry-specific laws and regulations, including rules related to compliance by our third-party resellers and our ability to identify and respond timely to compliance issues when they occur and regulations applicable to us and our third party data providers from whom we purchase and resell syndicated data; vetting and monitoring our third-party channel partners in new and evolving markets to confirm they maintain standards consistent with our brand and reputation; generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; our ability to adapt to sales practices and customer requirements in different cultures; the lack of reference customers and other marketing assets in regional markets that are new or developing for us, as well as other adaptations in our market generation efforts that we may be slow to identify and implement; dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism, or pandemics, including regional geopolitical conflicts around the world; actual or perceived instability in the global banking system; changes in tariffs and trade restrictions; cybersecurity incidents; corporate espionage; and political instability and security risks in the countries where we are doing business and changes in the public perception of governments in the countries where we operate or plan to operate. We have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, additional corporate operating restructurings from time to time that involve our group of foreign country subsidiaries through which we do business abroad. We consider various factors in evaluating these restructurings, including the alignment of our corporate legal entity structure with our organizational structure and its objectives, the operational and tax efficiency of our group structure, and the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our business. Such restructurings increase our operating costs, and if ineffectual, could increase our income tax liabilities and our global effective tax rate. 39 Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not effectively manage our future growth, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and we expect to continue to invest broadly across our organization to support our growth. For example, our headcount grew from over 2,300 employees as of January 31, 2024, to over 2,800 employees as of January 31, 2025. Although we have experienced rapid growth historically, we may not sustain our growth rates, nor can we assure you that our investments to support our growth will be successful. The growth and expansion of our business will require us to invest significant financial and operational resources and the continuous dedication of our management team. In addition, as we have grown, our number of customers has also increased significantly, and we have increasingly managed more complex deployments of our platform in more complex computing environments. The rapid growth and expansion of our business places a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. If we continue to experience rapid growth, we may not be able to successfully implement or scale improvements to our systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner. For example, as we grow, we may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes, and controls or in connection with third-party software licensed to help us with such improvements. As we grow, our existing systems, processes, and controls may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions, or fraud. Any future growth will continue to add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. Failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs, cause difficulty or delays in deploying new customers, reduce demand for our platform, cause difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, and any of these difficulties would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for our platform, particularly with respect to large organizations and government entities. For example, in light of current macroeconomic conditions, we have observed a lengthening of the sales cycle for some prospective customers that we attribute to higher cost-consciousness around IT budgets, which has become more pronounced recently. Customers often view the subscription to our platform as a significant strategic decision and, as a result, frequently require considerable time to evaluate, test and qualify our platform prior to entering into or expanding a relationship with us. Large enterprises and government entities in particular often undertake a significant evaluation process that further lengthens our sales cycle. Our direct sales team develops relationships with our customers, and works with our channel partners on account penetration, account coordination, sales and overall market development. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce a sale. Security solution purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unanticipated administrative, processing and other delays. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed. The failure of our efforts to secure sales after investing resources in a lengthy sales process would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The sales prices of our platform may decrease, or the mix of our sales may change, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our platform. As the market for endpoint security matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that are similar to or compete with ours, we may be unable to effectively optimize our prices through increases or decreases, attract new customers at our offered prices or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Further, competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse products and service offerings may reduce the price of products or services that compete with ours or may bundle them with other 40 Table of Contents products and services. This could lead customers to demand greater price concessions or additional functionality at the same price levels. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or provide more features without corresponding increases in price, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions to our platform over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in new business will not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription, which is generally one to three years. As a result, a substantial portion of the revenue we report in each period is attributable to the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements that we entered into during previous periods. Consequently, any increase or decrease in new sales or renewals in any one period will not be immediately reflected in our revenue for that period. Any such change, however, would affect our revenue in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of downturns or upturns in new sales and potential changes in our rate of renewals will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We may also be unable to timely reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales or renewals that would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We provide service level commitments under some of our customer contracts. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide partial refunds or our customers could be entitled to terminate their contracts and our business would suffer. Certain of our customer agreements contain service level commitments, which contain specifications regarding the availability of our platform and our support services. Failure of or disruption to our infrastructure or third-party hosting service providers could impact the performance of our platform and the availability of services to customers. If we are unable to meet our stated service level commitments or if we suffer extended periods of poor performance or unavailability of our platform, we may be contractually obligated to provide affected customers with credit, partial refunds or termination rights. To date, there has not been a material failure to meet our service level commitments, and we do not currently have any material liabilities accrued on our consolidated balance sheets for such commitments. Our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected if we suffer performance issues or downtime that exceeds the service level commitments under our agreements with our customers. Our business is subject to the risks of liability, indemnity and warranty claims, from real or perceived defects in our solutions or their misuse by our customers or third parties and indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. We may be subject to liability claims for damages related to errors or defects in our solutions. A material liability claim or other occurrence that harms our reputation or decreases market acceptance of our platform will harm our business and operating results. Although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances, or unfavorable judicial decisions in the U.S. or other countries. The sales and support of our platform also entails the risk of liability claims. We employ measures in the form of policy and technical controls to limit unauthorized access to our platform by our employees, customers and third-parties, however, these measures may not fully or effectively protect our platform from unauthorized access. Additionally, we typically provide indemnification to customers and partners we do business with for certain losses suffered or expenses incurred as a result of third-party claims arising from our infringement of a third partys intellectual property. We also provide unlimited liability for certain breaches of confidentiality, as defined in our master subscription agreement. We also provide limited liability in the event of certain breaches of our master subscription agreement. Certain of these contractual provisions survive the termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. However, as we continue to grow, indemnification claims against us for the obligations listed may increase. When our customers or other third parties whom we do business with make intellectual property rights or other indemnification claims against us, we incur significant legal expenses and may have to pay damages, license fees 41 Table of Contents and/or stop using technology found to be in violation of the third partys rights. We may also have to seek a license for the technology. Such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities and limit our ability to deliver certain solutions or features. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and/or cause us to alter our platform, which could harm our business. Large indemnity obligations, whether for intellectual property or in certain limited circumstances, other claims, would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, our platform may be used by our customers and other third parties who obtain access to our solutions for purposes other than for which our platform was intended. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our platform, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover the claims asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation, divert managements time and other resources, and harm our business and reputation. We have offered some of our customers a limited warranty, subject to certain conditions. Any failure or refusal of our insurance providers to provide the expected insurance benefits to us after we have remediated warranty claims would cause us to incur significant expense or cause us to cease offering warranties which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, expose us to liability claims by our customers, negatively impact our sales and marketing efforts, and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, although the terms of the warranty do not allow those customers to use warranty claim payments to fund payments to persons on the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons or who are otherwise subject to U.S. sanctions, we cannot assure you that all of our customers will comply with our warranty terms or refrain from taking actions, in violation of our warranty and applicable law. Key business metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement and to change as our business evolves, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected by real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics or any changes in metrics we disclose. We regularly review key business metrics, including our annualized recurring revenue (ARR), number of customers with ARR of $100,000, and other measures to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data and have not been validated by an independent third party. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates for the applicable period of measurement at the time of reporting, there are inherent challenges in such measurements. If we fail to maintain effective processes and systems, our metrics calculations may be inaccurate, and we may not be able to identify those inaccuracies. We regularly review our processes for calculating these metrics, and from time to time we make adjustments to improve their accuracy. Moreover, we may periodically change the definition or methodology underlying our metrics. For example, as a result of a decline in usage and consumption in the quarter ended April 30, 2023, we decided to change our methodology of calculating ARR for consumption and usage-based agreements to reflect committed contract values as opposed to based on consumption and usage. In addition, as part of our quarterly review of ARR in connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended April 30, 2023, we discovered some historical inaccuracies relating to ARR on certain contracts, which we have corrected. As a result, we made a one-time adjustment of approximately 5% of total ARR, which we reflected in our total ARR as of April 30, 2023. If our key metrics are inaccurate or if investors perceive any changes to our key business metrics or the methodologies for calculating these metrics negatively, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our People We rely on our management team and other key employees and will need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to hire, integrate, train, manage, retain, and motivate qualified personnel, including members of our board of directors, could harm our business. Our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, integrate, train, manage, retain, and motivate the members of our management team and other key employees throughout our organization. The loss of key personnel, 42 Table of Contents including key members of our management team or members of our board of directors, as well as certain of our key marketing, sales, finance, support, product development, people team, or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Tomer Weingarten, our co-founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President, and Chief Executive Officer, who is critical to the development of our technology, platform, future vision, and strategic direction. From time to time, there have been and may in the future be changes in our management team. While we seek to manage any such transitions carefully, such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge, cause disruptions to our business and negatively affect our business. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel, and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. More generally, the technology industry, and the cybersecurity industry more specifically, is also subject to substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and related services. Moreover, the industry in which we operate generally experiences high employee attrition. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. For example, in recent years, recruiting, hiring and retaining employees with expertise in the cybersecurity industry has become increasingly difficult as the demand for cybersecurity professionals has increased as a result of the recent cybersecurity attacks on global corporations and governments. We may be required to provide more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. Further, labor is subject to external factors that are beyond our control, including our industrys highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, cost inflation, overall macroeconomics and workforce participation rates. Should our competitors recruit our employees, our level of expertise and ability to execute our business plan would be negatively impacted. Additionally, restrictive immigration policies or legal or regulatory developments relating to immigration may also negatively affect our efforts to attract and hire new personnel as well as retain our existing personnel. Changes in U.S. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our business may be adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes. Moreover, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. Our competitors also may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team, sales team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to allegations that employees we hire have been improperly solicited, or that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information or that their former employers own such employees inventions or other work product, or that they have been hired in violation of non-compete or non-solicitation provisions. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards and other compensation they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our compensatory package declines, it may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be severely harmed. Further, our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. In recent years, the increased availability of hybrid or remote working arrangements has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for our employees and employment candidates. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our key employees, these agreements are on an at-will basis, meaning they are able to terminate their employment with us at any time. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be severely harmed. 43 Table of Contents If we do not effectively integrate, train, manage, and retain sales personnel, and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, we may be unable to increase our customer base and increase sales to our existing customers. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market adoption of our platform will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to expand our sales and marketing operations. We have and plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs and to expand our sales and marketing capabilities to target additional potential customers, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in attracting and maintaining additional customers. If we are unable to find efficient ways to deploy our sales and marketing investments or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Furthermore, we plan to continue expanding our sales force and there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our success in hiring, integrating, training, managing, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth, particularly in international markets. New hires require significant training and may take extended time before they are productive. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. Moreover, our international expansion may be slow or unsuccessful if we are unable to retain qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets which we target. If we are unable to hire, integrate, train, manage, and retain a sufficient number of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel we hire are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Any inability to maintain a high-quality customer support organization could lead to a lack of customer satisfaction, which could hurt our customer relationships and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Once our platform is deployed within our customers computing environments, our customers rely on our technical support services to assist with service customization and optimization and to resolve certain issues relating to the implementation and maintenance of our platform and advanced services. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our platform, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve technical issues, or provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services as part of our platform to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our product and business reputation and on positive recommendations, referrals, and peer promotions from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our services to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that our corporate culture has been, and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. If we do not continue to develop our corporate culture as we grow and evolve, it could harm our ability to foster the innovation, inclusion, creativity, and teamwork that we believe is important to support our growth. As we implement more complex organizational structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively impact our future success. We are also taking steps to develop a more inclusive and diverse workforce, however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. 44 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our platform without compensating us. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our technology. Valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or platform. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. Patent applications in the U.S. are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. In addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the U.S. may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. Such changes may lead to uncertainties or increased costs and risks surrounding the prosecution, validity, ownership, enforcement, and defense of our issued patents and patent applications and other intellectual property, the outcome of third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property brought against us and the actual or enhanced damages (including treble damages) that may be awarded in connection with any such current or future claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our platform or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, channel partners, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, such agreements may not be enforceable in full or in part in all jurisdictions and any breach could negatively affect our business and our remedy for such breach may be limited. The contractual provisions that we enter into may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Lastly, the measures we employ to limit the access and distribution of our proprietary information may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property. As such, we cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology or platform is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the U.S. For example, many foreign countries limit the enforceability of patents against certain third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Effective trade secret protection may also not be available in every country in which our products are available or where we have employees or independent contractors. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and employment laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Moreover, the availability of copyright protection and other legal protections for intellectual property generated by certain technologies, such as generative AI, is uncertain. The use of generative AI and other forms of AI may expose us to risks because the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, of generative and other AI output, have not been fully interpreted by U.S. courts or been fully addressed by U.S. federal or state regulation, as well as in foreign jurisdictions. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and platform protected other than by patent rights), we will find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create our platform and 45 Table of Contents other innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. Moreover, we may need to expend additional resources to defend our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, and our inability to do so could impair our business or adversely affect our international expansion. Third parties have claimed and may claim that our platform infringes their intellectual property rights and this may create liability for us or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Third parties have claimed, and may claim in the future, that our current or future products and services infringe their intellectual property rights, and such claims may result in legal claims against our channel partners, our alliance partners, our customers and us. These claims may damage our brand and reputation, harm our customer relationships, and create liability for us. Contractually, we are expected to indemnify our partners and customers for these types of claims. We expect the number of such claims to increase as the number of products and services and the level of competition in our market grows, as the functionality of our platform overlaps with that of other products and services, and as the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. We generally agree in our customer and partner contracts to indemnify customers for certain expenses or liabilities they incur as a result of third-party intellectual property infringement claims associated with our platform. To the extent that any claim arises as a result of third-party technology we have licensed for use in our platform, we may be unable to recover from the appropriate third party any expenses or other liabilities that we incur. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Furthermore, patent holding companies, non-practicing entities, and other adverse patent owners that are not deterred by our existing intellectual property protections may seek to assert patent claims against us. From time to time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, have invited us to license their patents and may, in the future, assert patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners, our alliance partners, or our customers. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents and trademarks, that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods and assets. We may also face exposure to third-party intellectual property infringement, misappropriation, or violation actions if we engage software engineers or other personnel who were previously engaged by competitors or other third parties and those personnel inadvertently or deliberately incorporate proprietary technology of third parties into our products. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop, market, and support potential products or enhancements, which could severely harm our business. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate, and could divert our managements attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights, and may require us to indemnify our customers for liabilities they incur as a result of such claims. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. Alternatively, we could be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort, and expense, and may affect the performance or features of our platform. If we cannot license or develop alternative non-infringing substitutes for any infringing technology used in any aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our platform and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents We license technology from third parties, and our inability to maintain those licenses could harm our business. We currently incorporate, and will in the future incorporate, technology that we license from third parties, including software, into our solutions. Licensing technologies from third parties exposes us to increased risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement and vulnerabilities due to, among other things, our lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology and the care taken to safeguard against risks. We cannot be certain that our licensors do not or will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our licensors have or will have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our platform. Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated by them for convenience, or otherwise provide for a limited term. If we are unable to continue to license technology because of intellectual property infringement claims brought by third parties against our licensors or against us, or if we are unable to continue our license agreements or enter into new licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop and sell solutions and services containing or dependent on that technology would be limited, and our business, including our financial conditions, cash flows and results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, if we are unable to license technology from third parties, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology, which we may be unable to do in a commercially feasible manner, or at all, and may require us to use alternative technology of lower quality or performance standards. This could limit or delay our ability to offer new or competitive solutions and increase our costs. Third-party software we rely on may be updated infrequently, unsupported or subject to vulnerabilities that may not be resolved in a timely manner, any of which may expose our solutions to vulnerabilities. As a result, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Some of our technology incorporates open source software, which could negatively affect our ability to sell our platform and subject us to possible litigation. Our platform contains third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products and subscriptions. The use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code, which they are not typically required to maintain and update, and they can change the license terms on which they offer the open source software. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort both to comply with the terms of the applicable open source licenses and to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, many of the risks associated with use of open source software cannot be eliminated and could negatively affect our business. In addition, the wide availability of source code used in our solutions could expose us to security vulnerabilities. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available as source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon our use and distribution of the open source software. If we combine and distribute our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public, including authorizing further modification and redistribution, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our services, each of which could provide an advantage to our competitors or other entrants to the market, create security vulnerabilities in our solution, require us to re-engineer all or a portion of our platform, and reduce or eliminate the value of our services. This would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of sales for us. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in ways that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize products and subscriptions incorporating such software. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our products and subscriptions will be effective. From time to time, we may face claims from third parties asserting ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code), or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims, regardless of validity, could result in time consuming and costly litigation, divert managements time and attention away from developing the business, expose us to customer indemnity claims, or force us to disclose source code. Litigation 47 Table of Contents could be costly for us to defend, result in paying damages, entering into unfavorable licenses, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition, or cause delays by requiring us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solution. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are subject to laws and regulations, including government export and import controls, sanctions and anti-corruption laws, that could impair our ability to compete in our markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. We are subject to laws and regulations, including government export and import controls, that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our platform and related technology are subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. Department of Commerces Export Administration Regulations (EAR). We, along with our employees, representatives, contractors, agents, intermediaries, and other third parties are also subject to various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by OFAC and other U.S. government agencies. We incorporate standard encryption algorithms into our platform, which, along with the underlying technology, may be exported or reexported to foreign countries only with the required export authorizations, including by license, license exception or other appropriate government authorizations, which may require the filing of an encryption registration and classification request and other reports submitted on a periodic basis. We also offer certain customers a ransomware warranty in addition to their subscriptions, providing coverage in the form of a limited monetary payment if they are affected by a ransomware attack (as specified in our ransomware warranty agreement), and though the terms of the warranty do not allow those customers to use warranty claim payments to fund payments to persons on OFACs list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons or who are otherwise prohibited to receive such payments under U.S. sanctions, we cannot assure you that all of our customers will comply with our warranty terms or refrain from taking actions in violation of our warranty and applicable law. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the export and re-export of certain hardware and software and the provision of certain cloud-based solutions to certain countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions and for certain end-uses. For example, following Russias invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. and other countries have continued to impose economic sanctions and severe export control restrictions against Russia and Belarus. Should the conflict escalate, sanctions and export restrictions will likely expand and strengthen, potentially impacting our ability to conduct business in certain regions and with specific individuals and entities in those regions. Further, regulators in the U.S. and elsewhere have signaled an increased emphasis on sanctions and export control enforcement, including several recent high-profile enforcement actions and increased pressure for companies to self-disclose potential violations. While we have implemented certain procedures to facilitate compliance with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the collection and distribution of this information, we cannot assure you that these procedures have been fully effective or that we, or third parties who we do not control, have complied with all laws or regulations in this regard. Failure by our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners, agents, intermediaries, or other third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the collection and distribution of this information also could have negative consequences to us, including reputational harm, government investigations, loss of export privileges, monetary fines, and other penalties. We also collect information about cyber threats from open sources, intermediaries and third parties that we make available to our customers in our threat industry publications. Although we take precautions to prevent our information collection practices and services from being provided in violation of such laws, our information collection practices and services may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided in violation of such laws. If we or our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners, agents, intermediaries, or other third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and fines. We may also be adversely affected through reputational harm, loss of access to certain markets or otherwise. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. 48 Table of Contents Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permit and license requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our platform or could limit our customers ability to implement our platform in those countries. Additionally, export restrictions imposed on Russia and Belarus specifically limit the export of encryption hardware, software and related source code and technology to these locations which could limit our ability to provide our software and services to these countries. Changes in our platform, and changes in or promulgation of new export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our platform into certain international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our platform globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our platform to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell our platform would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA), as amended, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 (the Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and similar laws in the U.S. and other countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, which have been enforced aggressively and are interpreted broadly, prohibit companies and their employees, agents, intermediaries and other third parties from promising, authorizing, making or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the public, and in certain cases, private sector. We leverage third parties, including intermediaries, agents and channel partners, to conduct our business in the U.S. and abroad, to sell subscriptions to our platform and to collect information about cyber threats. We and these third parties may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners, agents, intermediaries and other third parties, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with FCPA, Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and similar laws, we cannot assure you that they will be effective, or that all of our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners, agents, intermediaries or other third parties have not taken, or will not take actions, in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, including our business with government organizations, our risks under these laws may increase. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, severe criminal or civil sanctions, settlements, prosecution, loss of export privileges, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage and other consequences. Any investigations, actions or sanctions could harm our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the rapid evolution of AI, including potential government regulation of AI, may require significant additional resources to develop, test, and maintain our platform. Our AI-related initiatives may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, including regarding the use of AI in our products and the marketing of products using AI, litigation, customer reporting or documentation requirements, ethical or social concerns, or other complications and may also introduce risks related to accuracy, bias, toxicity, privacy, and security and data provenance. For example, in Europe, the E.U. AI Act has started becoming applicable in 2025. The E.U. AI Act aims to introduce a common and regulatory framework for AI through regulating AI providers and entities making use of AI tools in a professional capacity and may require the implementation of additional quality assurance controls and measures to be reviewed and approved by regulatory submissions of our offerings. Additionally, in the United States, the Framework for Artificial Intelligence Diffusion rule entered into effect on January 13, 2025. The rule amends the EAR to control certain advanced closed-weight dual-use AI models and creates a global license requirement. The rule may require the implementation of additional procedures to facilitate compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 49 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to the privacy and data protection of the personal data or other information we collect, process or share. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws or regulations could harm our business. We receive, store, and process some personal data from our employees, customers, the employees of our customers, and our end users. This personal data is hosted by our third-party vendors and service providers. A wide variety of state, national, and international laws, as well as regulations and industry standards apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data and other confidential or sensitive information, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent across countries or conflict with other rules. Data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and may result in increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. Complying with these various laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices, systems, and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and industry standards regarding personal data or other information could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In the U.S., there are numerous federal and state consumer, privacy, and data security laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal data, including security breach notification laws and consumer protection laws. Each of these laws is subject to varying interpretations and constantly evolving. Notably we may be subject to: The CCPA, which took effect in 2020, created new data privacy obligations for covered businesses and provided new privacy rights to California residents, including the right to opt out of certain disclosures of their personal information and receive detailed information about how their personal information. Following Californias lead, over a third of other U.S. states have enacted privacy laws in recent years. In addition, various comprehensive federal privacy bills have been proposed in Congress from time to time. As a result of our presence in the E.U. and the U.K., we are also subject to the GDPR, which governs the collection, use, disclosure, transfer or other processing of personal data of natural persons in the EEA and U.K., and it applies extra-territorially and imposes onerous requirements on controllers and processors of personal data. A breach of the GDPR could result in fines, penalties, regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices for a compulsory audit. Such penalties include potential fines for noncompliance of up to 20 million (17.5 million in the U.K.) or 4% of a companys global turnover, whichever is greater. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). A breach of the GDPR could result in fines, penalties, regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). Such penalties include potential fines for noncompliance of up to 20 million (17.5 million in the U.K.) or 4% of global turnover, whichever is greater. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, and/or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. The GDPR prohibits, among other things, personal data from being transferred outside of the EEA or the U.K. to any jurisdictions (Third Countries, including the U.S.) that have not been deemed adequate by regulators in the E.U. or U.K., unless steps are taken to legitimize those data transfers. Switzerland follows similar legal practices. We currently rely on the use of Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) and our certification under the E.U.-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (DPF), the U.S.-U.K. DPF and the Swiss U.S. DPF for the transfer of personal data from the E.U. or the U.K. to Third Countries. However these transfer mechanisms could be subject to further legal challenge which could cause the legal requirements for personal data transfers from these countries to the U.S. to become uncertain once again. If we are otherwise unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions 50 Table of Contents in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services, adversely affecting our financial results, and possibly making it necessary to establish systems in the EEA, Switzerland, the U.K. and other jurisdiction to maintain personal data originating from those jurisdictions that adds expenses and may create distractions from our other business pursuits. As supervisory authorities continue to issue further guidance on personal data transfers, we could suffer additional costs, complaints, or regulatory investigations or fines. Loss, retention or misuse of certain information and alleged violations of laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security, and any relevant claims, may expose us to potential liability and may require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to and defending such allegations and claims. Moreover, we are also subject to evolving E.U. and U.K. privacy laws on cookies and electronic marketing. Regulation of cookies and similar technologies, and any decline of cookies or similar online tracking technologies as a means to identify and potentially target users, may lead to broader restrictions and impairments on our marketing and personalization activities and may negatively impact our efforts to understand and acquire new users. Similar concerns around the regulation of cookies and similar technologies may happen under the CCPA regime in California and other current and soon-to-be enacted U.S. state privacy laws. Further, we depend on a number of third parties in relation to the operation of our business, many of which process personal data on our behalf or as our sub-processor. To the extent required by applicable law, we attempt to mitigate the associated risks of using third parties by performing security assessments and detailed due diligence, entering into contractual arrangements to ensure that providers only process personal data according to our instructions or comparable instructions to the instructions of our customer (as applicable), and that they have sufficient technical and organizational security measures in place. There is no assurance that these contractual measures and our own privacy and security-related safeguards will protect us from the risks associated with the third-party processing, storage and transmission of such information. Any violation of privacy, data protection, data or cybersecurity laws by our third-party processors could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in the fines and penalties under the GDPR or other applicable laws. Any failure or perceived failure by us, even if unfounded, to comply with applicable privacy and data security laws and regulations, our privacy policies, or our privacy-related obligations to customers, users or other third parties, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personal data or other customer data, may result in government enforcement actions, fines, penalties, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our users to lose trust in us, which would have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. For example, in 2017, we reached a consent agreement with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), to resolve an investigation relating to certain disclosures in our privacy policy. The consent agreement requires us, among other things, to provide information to the FTC about our compliance with the FTC order and about representations made in our marketing materials. We may be subject to future investigations and legal proceedings by the FTC or other regulators. As such, it is possible that a regulatory inquiry might result in changes to our policies or business practices. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, it is possible that future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. Complying with laws and regulations related to privacy and data protection could result in additional costs and liabilities to us. We are subject to various state, national, and international laws, regulations, and industry standards that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data and other information, which often change in scope, are subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent across countries or conflict with other rules. Complying with these various laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices, systems, and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. 51 Table of Contents The myriad of international and U.S. privacy and data breach laws are not consistent, and compliance in the event of a widespread data breach is difficult and may be costly. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for noncompliance are also rising. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Further, some countries (including some outside the EEA) also considering or have passed legislation requiring local storage and processing of data, or similar requirements, which could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services if we were to operate in those countries. If we are required to implement additional measures to transfer data from the EEA, this could increase our compliance costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, some regulators have proposed or introduced cybersecurity licensing requirements or certification regimes for specific sectors, such as critical infrastructure. These may impose new requirements on us or our current or prospective customers including, but not limited to, data processing locations, breach notification, and security standards. For instance, under DORA, which came into force in January 2025, our E.U. financial entity clients for whom we are a third-party provider of critical information and communication technology (ICT) services will require us to contract with and manage our relationships with them (and, where applicable, our relationships with critical third-party technology vendors in our own supply chain) in accordance with the requirements of DORA. Such requirements may cause us to incur significant organizational costs and increase barriers of entry into new markets. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, directives, and regulations may result in enforcement action against us, including fines, and damage to our reputation, any of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of our customers data, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of customers for the use and disclosure of such data is obtained or in how these applicable laws, regulations or industry practices are interpreted and enforced by state, federal and international privacy regulators could require us to modify our services and features, possibly in a material manner, may subject us to regulatory enforcement actions and fines, and may limit our ability to develop new products, services and features that make use of the data that our customers voluntarily share with us. Moreover, while we strive to publish and prominently display privacy policies that are accurate, comprehensive, and compliant with applicable laws, rules regulations and industry standards, we cannot ensure that our privacy policies and other statements regarding our practices will be sufficient to protect us from claims, proceedings, liability or adverse publicity relating to data privacy and security. If our public statements about our use, collection, disclosure and other processing of personal data, whether made through our privacy policies, information provided on our website, press statements or otherwise, are alleged to be deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our actual practices, we may be subject to potential government or legal investigation or action, including by the FTC or applicable state attorneys general. Our compliance efforts are further complicated by the fact that data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations and standards around the world are rapidly evolving, may be subject to uncertain or inconsistent interpretations and enforcement, and may conflict among various jurisdictions. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, or applicable data privacy and security laws, rules, regulations, standards, certifications or contractual obligations, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to, or unauthorized loss, destruction, use, modification, acquisition, disclosure, release or transfer of personal data, may result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, the expenditure of substantial costs, time and other resources, proceedings or actions against us, legal liability, government investigations, enforcement actions, claims, fines, judgments, awards, penalties, sanctions, and costly litigation (including class actions). Any of the foregoing could result in significant operational and compliance costs, harm our reputation, distract our management and technical personnel, adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and ultimately result in the imposition of liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 52 Table of Contents We are currently in, and may in the future, become involved in litigation that may adversely affect us. From time to time, we are subject to claims, suits and other proceedings. For example, we are currently the subject of securities litigation and commercial litigation. For additional information regarding these litigation matters, see the section titled Legal Proceedings. Regardless of the outcome, legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs and diversion of managements attention and resources, and could cause us to incur significant expenses or liability, adversely affect our brand recognition or require us to change our business practices. The expense of litigation and the timing of this expense from period to period are difficult to estimate, subject to change and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and penalties that would adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, operating results or cash flows in a particular period. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, sanctions, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices. Because of the potential risks, expenses and uncertainties of litigation, we may, from time to time, settle disputes, even where we have meritorious claims or defenses, by agreeing to settlement agreements. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable, we cannot assure you that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Financial and Accounting Matters The requirements of being a public company, including maintaining adequate internal control over our financial and management systems, result in significant costs and may strain our resources, divert managements attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. As a public company we incur and expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure