Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Sprint Nextel Corporation (Sprint, we, us, our or the Company) is a communications company offering a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses, government subscribers and resellers. The communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services and devices offered and the quality of service. As discussed below in Effects on our Wireless Business of Post-paid Subscriber Losses , the Company has experienced significant losses of subscribers in the critical post-paid wireless market and continues to make progress on specific steps to reduce such losses. Description of the Company We are the third largest wireless communications company in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers, one of the largest providers of wireline long distance services and one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic in the nation. Our services are provided through our ownership of extensive wireless networks and a global long distance and Tier 1 Internet backbone. We offer wireless and wireline voice and data transmission services to subscribers under the Sprint corporate brand which includes our retail brands consisting of Sprint , Nextel , Boost Mobile , Virgin Mobile and Assurance Wireless SM on networks that utilize third generation (3G) CDMA, national push-to-talk iDEN or internet protocol (IP) technologies. We utilize these networks to offer our wireless and wireline subscribers differentiated products and services whether through the use of a single network or a combination of these networks. We offer wireless services on a post-paid and prepaid payment basis to retail subscribers and also on a wholesale basis. We offer wireline services to other communications companies and targeted business customers. We are also the first and only nationwide wireless carrier to offer 4G services utilizing Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) technology through our mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) relationship with Clearwire. Sprint 4G is currently available in 28 markets serving nearly 40 million people. As previously announced by Clearwire, coverage is expected to reach up to 120 million people by the end of 2010. Our business strategy is to be responsive to changing customer mobility demands by being innovative and differentiated in the marketplace. Our future growth plans and strategy revolve around the following three key priorities: Improve the customer experience; Strengthen the Sprint brand; and Generate operating cash flow. Our Sprint brand stands for Simplicity, Productivity and Value by making it affordable to do more than just talk. We have reduced confusion over pricing plans and complex bills with our Simply Everything and Everything Data plans and our Any Mobile Anytime SM feature that offer savings compared to our competition. In addition to savings offered to consumers, Business Advantage pricing plans are available to our business subscribers who can also take advantage of Any Mobile Anytime SM with certain plans. To simplify and improve the customer experience, we introduced the Sprint Free Guarantee, which gives any customer opening a new line of service the chance to try Sprint for 30 days for free (excluding overages and premium services not included in price plans). In addition, we have continued to offer Ready Now, which trains our subscribers before they leave the store on how to use their mobile devices. For our business subscribers, we aim to increase their productivity by helping them upgrade from older, less flexible network technologies to IP technologies and by providing differentiated services that utilize the advantages of combining IP networks with wireless technology. This differentiation enables us to acquire and retain both wireline, wireless and combined wireline-wireless subscribers on our networks. Our product strategy is to provide our customers with a broad array of device selections to meet the growing needs of customer mobility. In January 2010, we announced the Overdrive 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot by Sierra Wireless that allows up to five wireless fidelity (WiFi) enabled devices to enjoy the speeds of our 4G services where available. In March 2010, we announced the worlds first 3G/4G Android device, the HTC EVO 4G, which also acts as a mobile hotspot for up to eight WiFi enabled devices and the Motorola i1, the worlds first Direct Connect Android-powered smartphone, both of which will be available this summer. We also support the open development of applications and content on our network platforms. Our multi-functional device portfolio includes devices such as the BlackBerry Tour and Blackberry Curve 2, the Samsung Instinct HD, the Touch Pro 2 from HTC, the HTC Hero and the Samsung Moment with Google and the MiFi 2200 from Novatel Wireless. We also enable a variety of third-party providers, location-based services and consumer product providers through our open-device initiative. The open-device initiative incorporates selling, marketing, product development and operations resources to address growing non-traditional data needs, which covers a wide variety of products and services including remote monitoring, telematics, in-vehicle devices, e-readers, embedded laptops, specialized medical devices and other original equipment manufacturer devices. 18 Table of Contents Our prepaid plans, primarily through the National Boost Monthly Unlimited and Assurance Wireless offerings, are experiencing strong demand as our simple, no long-term contract solutions provide good service and value. We plan to continue to grow our position in the prepaid market by tailoring our products and services to target markets while leveraging our Boost Mobile, Virgin Mobile and Assurance Wireless brands through new and existing distribution channels. Sprint has refocused its wholesale business as a reseller of new converged services that leverage the Sprint network but are sold under the customers brand. We have adopted new pricing models, made it easier for our customers to acquire access and resell our services by bundling wireless and wireline services and focused our attention to partners with existing distribution channels. In addition, we have strengthened our sales efforts and expanded to new markets in the rapidly growing machine-to-machine space. In addition to our customer-oriented goals, we have also taken steps to generate operating cash flow through competitive new rate plans for post-paid and prepaid subscribers, multi-branded strategies and reductions to our cost structure to align with the reduced revenues from fewer post-paid subscribers. Our cost actions included workforce reductions in 2009, which are expected to reduce labor and other costs by approximately $1.5 billion annually. We believe these actions, as well as our continued efforts to reduce other operating expenses and non-essential capital spending, will allow us to maintain a strong cash position, although we do not expect that these measures will fully offset the decline in cash provided by operating activities expected because of our lower number of post-paid subscribers as discussed below in Effects on our Wireless Business of Post-paid Subscriber Losses. Effects on our Wireless Business of Post-paid Subscriber Losses As shown by the table below under Results of Operations, Wireless segment earnings represents more than 80% of Sprints total consolidated segment earnings. The wireless industry is subject to intense competition to acquire and retain subscribers of wireless services. Most markets in which we operate have high rates of penetration for wireless services. Wireless carriers accordingly must attract a greater proportion of new subscribers from competitors rather than from first time subscribers. Within the Wireless segment, post-paid wireless voice and data services represent the most significant contributors to earnings, and are driven by the number of post-paid subscribers to our services, as well as the average revenue per subscriber or user (ARPU). Beginning in 2008, in conjunction with changes in senior management, Sprint undertook steps to address and reduce post-paid subscriber losses. Perceptions in the marketplace, in part as a result of the subscriber losses themselves, as well as other factors, reduced the Sprint brands effectiveness in attracting and retaining subscribers. Steps were taken to improve the quality of Sprints customer care experience and the Sprint networks, as confirmed by recent independent comparisons with competitors. Steps were also taken to improve the credit quality mix of our subscriber base and to improve our financial stability, including vigorous cost control actions, which have resulted in our continuing strong cash flow from operations. In addition, beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2010, we have undertaken increased marketing initiatives to strengthen the Sprint brand. We continue to increase market awareness of the improvements that have been achieved in the customer experience, including the speed and dependability of our networks. We have also introduced new devices improving our overall lineup and providing a competitive portfolio for customer selection, as well as competitive new rate plans providing simplicity and value. We believe these actions had a favorable impact on net post-paid subscriber losses in 2009 and expect further improvements in 2010. Net post-paid subscriber losses had not improved sustainably through the first quarter 2009, in part due to circumstances in the general economy, including higher deactivations of business customer accounts as companies reduced wireless service lines resulting from their own workforce reductions. However, during 2009 and continuing into the first quarter 2010, the Company has begun to see improvement in our net loss of post-paid subscribers. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, net post-paid subscriber losses decreased by 672,000 subscribers, an improvement of 54% compared to the same period one year ago. In 2009, net post-paid subscriber losses decreased by approximately 20% sequentially for each of the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 and by approximately 35% sequentially for the quarter ended December 31, 2009. As discussed below under Wireless BusinessService Revenue, the net loss of post-paid subscribers in the first quarter 2010 can be expected to cause wireless service revenue in each of the remaining quarters in 2010 to be approximately $86 million lower and in 2011 to be approximately $344 million lower than it would have been had those subscribers not been lost. In addition, the net loss of post-paid subscribers in 2009 can be expected to cause wireless service revenue in 2010 to be approximately $2.1 billion lower. Sprints successful prepaid wireless offerings, as well as the cost controls that have been implemented, will partially offset the effects of net post-paid subscriber losses, but are unlikely to be sufficient to sustain the Companys level of results from operations and cash flows unless we are successful in further reducing the decline in post-paid 19 Table of Contents subscribers. If we continue to experience a significant loss of post-paid subscribers throughout 2010, it would have a significant negative impact on Sprints financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in 2010 and beyond. The Company believes the actions that have been taken, as described above, and that continue to be taken in marketing, customer service, device offerings, and network quality, should reduce the number of net post-paid and total subscriber losses for 2010 as compared to 2009. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Wireless segment earnings $ 1,196 $ 1,449 Wireline segment earnings 279 286 Corporate, other and eliminations 3 (12) Consolidated segment earnings 1,478 1,723 Depreciation and amortization (1,675) (1,883) Severance and exit costs 17 (327) Operating loss (180) (487) Interest expense, net (361) (352) Equity in losses of unconsolidated investments and other, net (253) (285) Income tax (expense) benefit (71) 530 Net loss $ (865) $ (594) Consolidated segment earnings decreased $245 million, or 14%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2009. Consolidated segment earnings consist of our Wireless and Wireline segments, which are discussed below, and Corporate, other and eliminations. Corporate, other and eliminations increased $15 million, or 125%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily resulting from a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation expense decreased $142 million, or 10%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 from the same period in 2009, primarily due to a reduction in the replacement rate of fully depreciated assets resulting from our capital reduction program to reduce spending and increase our financial flexibility. Amortization expense declined $66 million, or 14%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 from the three-month period March 31, 2009, primarily due to reductions in amortization of customer relationships which are amortized using the sum-of-the-years-digits method, resulting in higher amortization rates in early periods that decline over time. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in amortization related to the iPCS and Virgin Mobile acquisitions. Severance and Exit Costs The $17 million benefit recognized in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 is primarily related to a reduction in the estimate of severance costs associated with our workforce reduction announced in November 2009. The $327 million expense recognized in the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 related to the separation of employees and continued organizational realignment initiatives announced in January 2009 to align with reduced revenue from net post-paid subscriber losses. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net increased $9 million, or 3%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the effective interest rate in addition to a decrease in capitalized interest. The effective interest rate was 7.0% for the first quarter 2010 compared to 6.8% for the first quarter 2009, which was partially offset by a lower average long-term debt balance of $21.1 billion for the first quarter 2010 compared to $21.6 billion for the first quarter 2009. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on the Companys financing activities. 20 Table of Contents Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Investments and Other, Net This item consists mainly of our proportionate share of earnings or losses from our equity method investments and also includes other miscellaneous income/(expense). Equity losses associated with the investment in Clearwire consist of Sprints share of Clearwires net loss and other adjustments such as losses associated with the dilution of Sprints ownership interest resulting from Clearwires equity issuances. Equity in losses from Clearwire were $250 million and $281 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. First quarter 2009 equity in losses of Clearwire include a pre-tax dilution loss of $154 million ($96 million after tax) representing the finalization of ownership percentages, which was subject to change based on the trading price of Clearwire stock during the 90 days subsequent to the November 2008 closing. Clearwire builds and operates next generation mobile broadband networks that provide high-speed residential and mobile internet access services and residential voice services in communities throughout the country. Clearwire is an early stage company, and as such, is investing heavily in building the network and acquiring other assets necessary to expand the business which has resulted in operating losses. We expect Clearwire to continue to generate significant net losses as it continues the build-out of its 4G wireless network. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit The consolidated effective tax rate was an expense of approximately 9% and a benefit of 47% for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 reflects an expense due to a $365 million net increase to the valuation allowance for federal and state deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards generated during the period. We do not expect to record tax benefits on future net operating losses until our circumstances justify the recognition of such benefits. The income tax benefit for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 was increased by $113 million consisting of a $31 million net decrease to the valuation allowance and $82 million related to a reduction in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Additional information related to items impacting the effective tax rates can be found in Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Table of Contents Segment Earnings - Wireless Business Wireless segment earnings are primarily a function of wireless service revenue, costs to acquire subscribers, network and interconnection costs to serve those subscribers and other Wireless segment operating expenses. The costs to acquire our subscribers include our equipment costs in excess of the price at which we sell our devices, referred to as equipment net subsidies, as well as the marketing and sales costs incurred to attract those subscribers. Network costs primarily represent switch and cell site costs and interconnection costs which generally consist of per-minute usage fees and roaming fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireless segment include the costs to operate our customer care organization, and administrative support. Wireless service revenue, costs to acquire subscribers, and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our subscriber base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short term with the changes in our subscriber usage. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireless segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Three Months Ended March 31, Wireless Earnings 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) Post-paid $ 5,539 $ 6,063 Prepaid 893 357 Retail service revenue 6,432 6,420 Wholesale, affiliate and other revenue 49 162 Total service revenue 6,481 6,582 Cost of services (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) (2,047 ) (2,072 ) Service gross margin $ 4,434 $ 4,510 Service gross margin percentage 68 % 69 % Equipment revenue $ 567 $ 453 Cost of products (1,566 ) (1,291 ) Equipment net subsidy $ (999 ) $ (838 ) Equipment net subsidy percentage (176 )% (185 )% Selling, general and administrative expense $ (2,239 ) $ (2,223 ) Wireless segment earnings 1,196 1,449 Service Revenue Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the sale of wireless services, the sale of wireless devices and accessories and the sale of wholesale and other services. Service revenue consists of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges and miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, roaming, equipment protection, late payment and early termination charges and certain regulatory related fees, net of service credits. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of: revenue generated from each subscriber, which in turn is a function of the types and amount of services utilized by each subscriber and the rates charged for those services; and the number of subscribers that we serve, which in turn is a function of our ability to acquire new and retain existing subscribers. Retail comprises those subscribers to whom Sprint directly provides wireless services on our networks or networks we utilize through MVNO relationships, such as Clearwire, whether those services are provided on a post-paid or a prepaid basis. Retail service revenue increased $12 million, or less than 1%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. The increase in retail service revenue was primarily driven by attracting subscribers to the Companys National Boost Monthly Unlimited prepaid plan in addition to an increase in service revenue related to the subscribers acquired through our fourth quarter 2009 business combinations of Virgin Mobile and iPCS. The increase in retail service revenue was partially offset by a decrease in post-paid service revenue driven by a reduction in the Companys average number of post-paid subscribers of approximately 2.4 million, or 7%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. 22 Table of Contents Wholesale and affiliates are those subscribers who are served through MVNO and affiliate relationships, and other arrangements through which wireless services are sold by Sprint to other companies that resell those services to subscribers. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues, in total, decreased $113 million, or 70%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to 2009. The majority of the decrease was due to the transfer of subscribers from wholesale and affiliates into post-paid and prepaid as a result of the fourth quarter 2009 business combinations of Virgin Mobile and iPCS. The remaining decline was primarily due to a decrease throughout 2009 of the number of subscribers with two of our large MVNO operators in addition to lower revenues received from services provided through our open-device initiative. Approximately one-half of our wholesale subscribers represent a growing number of devices under our open-device initiative, including machine-to-machine services, such as e-readers, in-vehicle devices and telematics, through devices that utilize our network. These devices generate revenue from non-contract usage which varies depending on the machine-to-machine service being utilized. Average revenue per subscriber for our open-device machine-to-machine services is significantly lower than revenue from other wholesale and affiliate subscribers; however, the cost to service these customers is also lower resulting in a higher profit margin as a percent of revenue. Average Monthly Service Revenue per Subscriber and Subscriber Trends The table below summarizes average number of retail subscribers and average revenue per subscriber for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Additional information about the number of subscribers, net additions to subscribers, average monthly service revenue per subscriber and average rates of monthly post-paid and prepaid customer churn for each quarter since the first quarter 2009 may be found in the table on the following page. Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (subscribers in thousands) Average post-paid subscribers (1) 33,638 36,051 Average prepaid subscribers (1) 10,837 3,791 Average monthly service revenue per subscriber (2) : Post-paid $ 55 $ 56 Prepaid 27 31 Average retail 48 54 (1) Average subscribers include subscribers acquired through business combinations prospectively from the date of acquisition. Average subscribers for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 are inclusive of prepaid and post-paid subscribers acquired through our 2009 business combinations of Virgin Mobile and iPCS which were previously included within wholesale and affiliate subscribers. (2) Average monthly service revenue per subscriber for the quarter is calculated by dividing quarterly service revenue by the sum of the average number of subscribers for each month in the quarter. Changes in average monthly service revenue reflect subscribers who change rate plans, the level of voice and data usage during a quarter, the amount of service credits which are offered to subscribers, plus the net effect of average monthly revenue generated by new subscribers and deactivating subscribers. Average monthly retail post-paid service revenue per subscriber for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 declined slightly as compared to the same period of 2009 due to declines in overage revenues resulting from the increased popularity of fixed-rate bundled plans including the Any Mobile Anytime SM feature. Average monthly prepaid service revenue per subscriber for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 decreased compared to the same period in 2009 due to prepaid subscribers acquired in our fourth quarter 2009 business combination of Virgin Mobile, which carries a lower average revenue per subscriber compared to Sprints other prepaid subscribers. The lower prepaid average revenue per subscriber and the increased weighting of average prepaid subscribers to total subscribers resulted in a decline in our average retail service revenue per subscriber for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. 23 Table of Contents The following table shows (a) net additions (losses) of subscribers for each quarter beginning with the first quarter 2009 excluding subscribers obtained through business combinations and existing subscribers who have migrated between networks, (b) our total subscribers as of the end of each quarterly period, (c) our average monthly service revenue per subscriber, and (d) our average rates of monthly post-paid and prepaid customer churn. March 31, 2009 June 30, 2009 September 30, 2009 December 31, 2009 March 31, 2010 Net additions (losses) (in thousands) Post-paid: iDEN (625) (529) (466) (414) (365) CDMA (1) (625) (462) (335) (90) (213) Total retail post-paid (1,250) (991) (801) (504) (578) Prepaid: iDEN 764 938 801 483 (44) CDMA (90) (161) (135) (48) 392 Total retail prepaid 674 777 666 435 348 Wholesale and affiliates 394 (43) (410) (79) 155 Total Wireless (182) (257) (545) (148) (75) End of period subscribers (in thousands) Post-paid: iDEN 8,890 8,292 7,762 7,255 6,808 CDMA (1) 26,538 26,145 25,874 26,712 26,581 Total retail post-paid (2) 35,428 34,437 33,636 33,967 33,389 Prepaid: iDEN 3,497 4,435 5,236 5,719 5,675 CDMA 774 613 478 4,969 5,361 Total retail prepaid (2) 4,271 5,048 5,714 10,688 11,036 Wholesale and affiliates (2) 9,384 9,341 8,931 3,478 3,633 Total Wireless 49,083 48,826 48,281 48,133 48,058 Average monthly service revenue per subscriber Post-paid $ 56 $ 56 $ 56 $ 55 $ 55 Prepaid $ 31 $ 34 $ 35 $ 31 $ 27 Monthly customer churn rate (3) Retail post-paid 2.25 % 2.05 % 2.17 % 2.11 % 2.15 % Retail prepaid 6.86 % 6.38 % 6.65 % 5.56 % 5.74 % (1) Includes subscribers with PowerSource devices, which operate seamlessly between our CDMA and iDEN networks. (2) Reflects the transfer of 4,539,000 Prepaid and 835,000 Post-paid subscribers from Wholesale and affiliates as a result of the business combinations completed in the fourth quarter 2009. (3) Churn is calculated by dividing net subscriber deactivations for the quarter by the sum of the average number of subscribers for each month in the quarter. For post-paid accounts comprising multiple subscribers, such as family plans and enterprise accounts, net deactivations are defined as deactivations in excess of customer activations in a particular account within 30 days. Post-paid and prepaid churn consists of both voluntary churn, where the subscriber makes his or her own determination to cease being a customer, and involuntary churn, where the customers service is terminated due to a lack of payment or other reasons. 24 Table of Contents Retail Post-Paid Subscribers We lost 578,000 net post-paid subscribers during the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to losing 1.25 million net post-paid subscribers during the same period in 2009. The following table provides a reconciliation of reported net additions (losses) of retail post-paid subscribers and movement of subscribers between network technologies during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. CDMA Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in thousands) Reported net losses (213 ) (625 ) Net additions from iDEN network 82 94 CDMA losses after inter-network activity (131 ) (531 ) iDEN Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in thousands) Reported net losses (365 ) (625 ) Net losses to CDMA network (82 ) (94 ) iDEN losses after inter-network activity (447 ) (719 ) The Company expects that both post-paid and total subscriber full-year net losses should improve for the year 2010 as compared to 2009. However, our actual loss of post-paid subscribers in the first quarter of 2010 can be expected to cause wireless service revenue in each of the remaining quarters of 2010 to be approximately $86 million lower and in 2011 to be approximately $344 million lower than it would have been had those subscribers not been lost. If we continue to experience significant loss of post-paid subscribers in 2010, it would have a significant negative impact on Sprints financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in 2010 and beyond. Retail Prepaid Subscribers We added approximately 348,000 net prepaid subscribers during the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to 674,000 net prepaid subscribers for the same period in 2009. Our net prepaid subscriber additions in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 were principally driven by the launch of both the Boost Monthly Unlimited offering on the CDMA network as well as expansion of the Assurance Wireless brand into four additional states during the quarter, partially offset by net losses associated with the Virgin Mobile brand. Our net prepaid subscriber additions in the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 were principally driven by the Companys National Boost Monthly Unlimited offering on the iDEN network which was launched at the end of January 2009. The success achieved by the National Boost Monthly Unlimited offering, coupled with the recent addition of the Virgin Mobile and Assurance Wireless offerings within our prepaid portfolio, have driven a significant prepaid market share gain. In conjunction with the changing economic environment, the Companys prepaid offerings continue to experience strong demand as prepaid decisions are becoming a larger portion of overall decisions in the marketplace. End of period prepaid subscribers include subscribers engaged in certain retention programs that target qualifying subscribers to maintain ongoing service while providing additional time to make a replenishment prior to account deactivation. Subscribers targeted through retention programs are not included in the calculation of churn until their offer expires without a replenishment to their account. Wholesale and Affiliate Subscribers Wholesale and affiliate subscribers represent customers that are served on our networks through companies that resell our services to their subscribers, customers residing in PCS affiliate territories and a growing portion of subscribers from our open-device initiative primarily representing machine-to-machine devices that utilize our network. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, wholesale and affiliate subscriber additions were 155,000, resulting in approximately 3.6 million wholesale and affiliate subscribers at March 31, 2010, compared to approximately 9.4 million wholesale and affiliate subscribers at March 31, 2009. The decrease in the wholesale subscriber base was driven primarily by subscribers transferred to post-paid and prepaid as a result of the fourth quarter 2009 business combinations of Virgin Mobile and iPCS. The remaining decline was primarily due to a decrease throughout 2009 of the number of subscribers with two of our large MVNOs partially offset by increases in MVNO relationships in post-paid and prepaid wireless services. Of the remaining 3.6 million subscribers included in wholesale and affiliate, approximately one-half represent machine-to-machine activities such as e-readers, in-vehicle devices and telematics. 25 Table of Contents Cost of Services Cost of services consists primarily of: costs to operate and maintain our CDMA and iDEN networks, including direct switch and cell site costs, such as rent, utilities, maintenance, payroll costs associated with network employees and spectrum frequency leasing costs; fixed and variable interconnection costs, the fixed component of which consists of monthly flat-rate fees for facilities leased from local exchange carriers based on the number of cell sites and switches in service in a particular period and the related equipment installed at each site, and the variable component of which generally consists of per-minute usage fees charged by wireline providers for calls terminating on their networks, which fluctuate in relation to the level and duration of those terminating calls; long distance costs paid to the Wireline segment; costs to service and repair devices; regulatory fees; roaming fees paid to other carriers; and fixed and variable costs relating to payments to third parties for the use of their proprietary data applications, such as messaging, music, TV and navigation services by our subscribers. Cost of services decreased $25 million, or 1%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, primarily reflecting a decline in payments to third party vendors as a result of changing from usage based payments to flat rates. This decline was partially offset by increased roaming due to higher data usage and increased interconnect fees as a result of our prepaid subscriber growth. Equipment Net Subsidy We recognize equipment revenue and corresponding costs of devices when title of the device passes to the dealer or end-user customer. Our marketing plans assume that devices typically will be sold at prices below cost, which is consistent with industry practice, as subscriber retention efforts often include providing incentives to subscribers such as offering new devices at discounted prices. We reduce equipment revenue for these discounts offered directly to the customer, or for certain payments to third-party dealers to reimburse the dealer for point of sale discounts that are offered to the end-user subscriber. Additionally, the cost of devices is reduced by any rebates that are earned from the supplier. Cost of devices and accessories also includes order fulfillment related expenses and write-downs of device and related accessory inventory for shrinkage and obsolescence. Equipment cost in excess of the revenue generated from equipment sales is referred to in the industry as equipment net subsidy. Equipment revenue increased $114 million, or 25%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 primarily due to an increase in the number of devices sold in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. Cost of devices increased $273 million, or 22%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the number of post-paid and prepaid devices sold, in addition to our mix of devices sold reflecting a greater mix of post-paid devices with a higher functionality and higher cost. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions paid to our indirect dealers, third-party distributors and retail sales force for new device activations and upgrades, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our retail sales force, stores and marketing employees, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of costs for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and administrative support activities, including collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development. Sales and marketing expense increased $51 million, or 5%, in the first quarter 2010 from the first quarter 2009, primarily due to an increase in sales costs related to the successful launch of Boost Mobile Unlimited offering on CDMA offset by a decline in marketing expenditures related to our cost cutting initiatives. General and administrative costs decreased $35 million, or 3%, in the first quarter 2010 from the first quarter 2009, primarily due to a decrease in employee related costs as part of our cost cutting initiatives and a reduction in customer care costs offset by an increase in bad debt expense. Employee related costs decreased by approximately $41 million as compared to the 26 Table of Contents first quarter 2009 due to the workforce reductions and cost cutting initiatives announced in 2009 offset by increases as a result of the fourth quarter 2009 business combinations of Virgin Mobile and iPCS. Customer care costs decreased $26 million in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. The improvement in customer care expenses is largely attributable to customer care quality initiatives that have resulted in a reduction in calls per subscriber which allowed for a reduction of 19 call centers throughout 2009. Bad debt expense was $107 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 representing a $35 million increase as compared to bad debt expense of $72 million in the first quarter 2009. We reassess our allowance for doubtful accounts quarterly. Changes in our allowance for doubtful accounts are largely attributable to credit policies established for subscribers and analysis of historical collection experience. Our mix of prime post-paid subscribers to total post-paid subscribers remained relatively flat at approximately 84% for the three-month period ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. Segment Earnings - Wireline Business We provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services to other communications companies and targeted business subscribers. In addition, we provide voice, data and IP communication services to our Wireless segment and IP and other services to cable Multiple System Operators (MSOs) that resell our local and long distance service and use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities primarily to residential end-user subscribers. We are one of the nations largest providers of long distance services and operate all-digital long distance and Tier I IP networks. These services and products include domestic and international data communications using various protocols, such as multiprotocol label switching technologies (MPLS), IP, asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), IP-based frame relay, managed network services Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and traditional voice services. Our IP services can also be combined with wireless services. Such services include our Wireless Integration service which enables a wireless handset to operate as part of a subscribers wireline voice network and our DataLinkSM service, which uses our wireless networks to connect a subscriber location into their primarily wireline wide-area IP/MPLS data network, making it easy for a business to adapt their network to changing business requirements. We continue to assess the portfolio of services provided by our Wireline segment and are focusing our efforts on IP-based services and de-emphasizing stand-alone voice services and non-IP-based data services. For example, in addition to increased emphasis on selling IP and managed services, we continue to convert our existing subscribers from ATM and frame relay to more advanced IP technologies, such as MPLS, Sprintlink Frame Relay and Sprintlink ATM, which allows us to provide converged services. We are also taking advantage of the growth in voice services provided by cable MSOs, by providing large cable MSOs with wholesale voice local and long distance services, which they offer as part of their bundled service offerings, as well as traditional voice and data services for their enterprise use. Wireline segment earnings are primarily a function of wireline service revenue, network and interconnection costs and other Wireline segment operating expenses. Network costs primarily represent special access costs and interconnection costs which generally consist of domestic and international per-minute usage fees paid to other carriers. The remaining costs associated with operating the Wireline segment include the costs to operate our customer care and billing organizations in addition to administrative support. Wireline service revenue, and variable network and interconnection costs fluctuate with the changes in our customer base and their related usage, but some cost elements do not fluctuate in the short term with the changes in our customer usage. Our Wireline services provided to our Wireless segment are generally accounted for based on market rates which we believe approximate fair value. The following table provides an overview of the results of operations of our Wireline segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Three Months Ended March 31, Wireline 2010 2009 (dollars in millions) Voice $ 585 $ 660 Data 138 199 Internet 553 577 Other 21 29 Total net service revenue 1,297 1,465 Cost of services and products (846 ) (953 ) Service gross margin $ 451 $ 512 Service gross margin percentage 35 % 35 % Selling, general and administrative expense $ (172 ) $ (226 ) Wireline segment earnings 279 286 27 Table of Contents Wireline Revenue Voice Revenues Voice revenue decreased $75 million, or 11%, in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the first quarter 2009 primarily driven by volume declines due to customer churn as well as overall price declines. Voice revenues generated from the sale of services to our Wireless segment represented 30% of total voice revenues for the first quarter 2010 as compared to 29% for the first quarter 2009. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of data services, including ATM, frame relay and managed network services. Data revenues decreased $61 million, or 31%, for the first quarter 2010 as compared to the first quarter 2009 primarily due to declines in frame relay and ATM services as subscribers migrated to IP-based technologies. Data revenues generated from the provision of services to the Wireless segment represented 25% of total data revenue for the first quarter 2010 as compared to 16% for the first quarter 2009. Internet Revenues Internet revenues reflect sales of IP-based data services, including MPLS. Internet revenues decreased $24 million, or 4%, in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the first quarter 2009. The decrease was due to lower market rates as a result of increased competition, which was partially offset by revenue growth in Cable VoIP, which has experienced a 12% increase in subscribers from March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010. Internet revenues generated from the provision of services to our Wireless segment represented 9% of total Internet revenues in the first quarter 2010 as compared to 11% in the first quarter 2009. Some MSOs are in the process of in-sourcing their digital voice products for which the transition and associated effect on revenue would occur over the next several years. Other Revenues Other revenues, which primarily consist of sales of customer premises equipment, decreased $8 million, or 28%, in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the first quarter 2009 as a result of fewer projects. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic subscribers, costs to operate and maintain our networks and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products decreased $107 million, or 11%, in the first quarter 2010 from the first quarter 2009 due to declining voice volumes and a shift in mix to lower cost products as a result of the migration from data to IP-based technologies. Service gross margin percentage remained stable at 35% in the first quarter 2010 and 2009, primarily as a result of a decrease in costs of services and products offset by a decrease in net service revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $54 million, or 24%, in the first quarter 2010 as compared to the first quarter 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in employee headcount and a decline in the use of outside services and maintenance as part of our cost cutting initiatives. Total selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net service revenue was 13% in the first quarter 2010, as compared to 15% in the first quarter 2009. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Company applies those accounting policies that management believes best reflect the underlying business and economic events, consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Inherent in such policies are certain key assumptions and estimates made by management. Management periodically updates its estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements based on its latest assessment of the current and projected business and general economic environment. Information regarding the Companys Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates is included in Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 28 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flow Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 1,122 $ 1,363 Cash used in investing activities (565 ) (560 ) Cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3 ) 22 At March 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents were $4.4 billion as compared to $4.5 billion as of March 31, 2009. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $1.1 billion in the first quarter 2010 decreased $241 million from the first quarter 2009 primarily due to a $279 million decrease in cash received from our subscribers as a result of declining service revenues offset by a decrease of $41 million in cash paid to our suppliers and employees. Subscriber revenue earned but not billed represented about 11% and 13% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, respectively. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first quarter 2010 was flat compared to the first quarter 2009. Activity for the first quarter 2010 included increased capital expenditures of $128 million to add coverage and capacity to our wireless networks in addition to payments related to the third installment of our investment in Clearwire of $53 million. This activity was offset by reduced expenditures relating to FCC licenses of $75 million as determined by specific operational requirements of the Report and Order and increased proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments of $97 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $3 million during the first quarter 2010 and was primarily related to reductions in capital lease obligations. Cash provided by financing activities of $22 million in the first quarter 2009 was related to adjustments necessary to finalize our financing transaction related to cell sites. Liquidity As of March 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $4.4 billion. In addition, we have $2.8 billion available under our revolving bank credit facility, which we intend to replace prior to expiration on December 19, 2010, although there is no assurance that amounts will be available on acceptable terms. In June 2010, $750 million of our Sprint Nextel Corporation floating rate senior notes will mature. In January 2011, $1.65 billion of Sprint Capital Corporation 7.625% senior notes will mature. The terms and conditions of our revolving bank credit facility require the ratio of total indebtedness to trailing four quarters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other non-recurring items, as defined by the credit facility (adjusted EBITDA), to be no more than 4.25 to 1.0. As of March 31, 2010, the ratio was 3.7 to 1.0 as compared to 3.5 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2009 resulting from our decline in adjusted EBITDA. Under this revolving bank credit facility, we are currently restricted from paying cash dividends because our ratio of total indebtedness to adjusted EBITDA exceeds 2.5 to 1.0. The terms of the revolving bank credit facility provide for an interest rate equal to LIBOR, plus a margin of between 2.50% and 3.00%, depending on our debt ratings. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries have guaranteed the revolving bank credit facility. As of March 31, 2010, we had $1.7 billion in letters of credit outstanding, including a $1.6 billion letter of credit required by the Report and Order to reconfigure the 800 MHz band, and no outstanding balance under our $4.5 billion revolving bank credit facility. As a result of the outstanding letters of credit, which directly reduce the availability of the revolving bank credit facility, we had $2.8 billion of borrowing capacity available under our revolving bank credit facility as of March 31, 2010. A default under our credit facilities could trigger defaults under our other debt obligations, including our senior notes, which in turn could result in the maturities of certain debt obligations being accelerated. The indentures that govern our outstanding senior notes also require that we comply with various covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness and liens by us and our subsidiaries. We expect to remain in compliance with these covenants through at least the 29 Table of Contents end of 2011, although there can be no assurance that we will do so. Although we expect to improve our post-paid subscriber results, if we do not meet our plan, depending on the severity of the actual subscriber results versus what we currently anticipate, it is possible that we would not remain in compliance with our covenants or be able to meet our debt service obligations, which could result in acceleration of our indebtedness. If such unforeseen events occur, we may engage with our lenders to obtain appropriate waivers or amendments of our credit facilities or refinance borrowings, although there is no assurance we would be successful in any of these actions. Sprints current liquidity position makes it likely that we will be able to meet our debt service requirements and other funding needs at least through 2011. Specifically, we expect to be able to meet our currently identified funding needs through at least the end of 2011 by using our anticipated cash flows from operating activities as well as our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments on hand. In addition, we also have available the remaining borrowing capacity under our revolving bank credit facility until expiration on December 19, 2010. Nevertheless, if we are unable to reduce the rate of losses of post-paid subscribers in 2010, it would have a significant negative impact on cash provided by operating activities and our liquidity in future years. In determining that we expect to meet our funding needs through at least 2011, we have considered: expenses relating to our operations; anticipated levels of capital expenditures, including the capacity and upgrading of our networks and the deployment of new technologies in our networks, and FCC license acquisitions; anticipated payments under the Report and Order, as supplemented; any contributions we may make to our pension plan, which had been negatively impacted by the high degree of volatility in the global financial markets; scheduled debt service requirements; any additional investment we may choose to make in Clearwire; and other future contractual obligations and general corporate expenditures. Our assessment above does not take into account, among other things: any significant additional acquisition transactions or the pursuit of any significant new business opportunities or spectrum acquisition strategies; and any material increases in the cost of compliance with regulatory mandates. Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings available under our existing revolving credit facility. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to fund our capital needs from outside sources is ultimately affected by the overall capacity and terms of the banking and securities markets. Given our recent financial performance as well as the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable cost of capital. As of March 31, 2010, Moodys Investor Service, Standard & Poors Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings had assigned the following credit ratings to certain of our outstanding obligations: Rating Rating Agency Senior Unsecured Bank Credit Facility Senior Unsecured Debt Outlook Moodys Baa2 Ba3 Negative Standard and Poors Not Rated BB- Negative Fitch BB BB Negative Downgrades of our current ratings do not accelerate scheduled principal payments of our existing debt. However, downgrades may cause us to incur higher interest costs on our credit facilities and future borrowings, if any, and could negatively impact our access to the public capital markets. As of March 31, 2010, we had working capital of $754 million compared to $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. 30 Table of Contents CURRENT BUSINESS OUTLOOK We endeavor to both add new and retain our existing wireless subscribers in order to reverse the net loss in post-paid wireless subscribers that we have been experiencing. We expect to improve our subscriber trends by continuing to improve the customer experience and through offers which provide value, simplicity and productivity. Given the current economic environment, the difficulties the economic uncertainties create in forecasting, as well as the inherent uncertainties in predicting future customer behavior, we are unable to say with assurance the amount of net retail post-paid subscriber losses we will experience during the remaining quarters of 2010 or thereafter. However, the Company expects that both post-paid and total subscriber losses will improve in 2010 as compared to 2009. Our net subscriber losses have significantly reduced our revenue and operating cash flow. These effects will continue if we do not attract new subscribers and/or reduce our rate of churn. See Wireless Segment Earnings above for a discussion of how our subscriber trends will impact our segment earnings trends. Also, these subscriber losses have decreased and will further decrease our adjusted EBITDA, as defined by our revolving bank credit facility. Management implemented cost reduction programs designed to decrease our cost structure by reducing our labor and other costs; however, we do not expect that the reduction in costs will fully offset the revenue declines described above. The above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under Forward-Looking Statements below and in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Future Contractual Obligations There have been no significant changes to our future contractual obligations as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Financial Strategies General Risk Management Policies We primarily use derivative instruments for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activities may be done for various purposes, including, but not limited to, mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, credit support agreements, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. We also control exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. Our board of directors has adopted a financial risk management policy that authorizes us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with the policy. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes with the exception of equity rights obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common shares. Other Information We routinely post important information on our website at www.sprint.com. Information contained on our website is not part of this quarterly report. Forward-Looking Statements We include certain estimates, projections and other forward-looking statements in our annual, quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. With respect to these forward-looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, subscriber and network usage, subscriber growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic and regulatory environment. 31 Table of Contents Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: our ability to attract and retain subscribers; the effects of vigorous competition on a highly penetrated market, including the impact of competition on the price we are able to charge subscribers for services and equipment we provide and our ability to attract new subscribers and retain existing subscribers; the overall demand for our service offerings, including the impact of decisions of new or existing subscribers between our post-paid and prepaid services offerings and between our two network platforms; and the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on our business; the effect of limiting or reducing capital and operating expenditures on our ability to improve and enhance our networks and service offerings, implement our business strategies and provide competitive new technologies; our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, including at the expiration of our current credit facility, which expires on December 19, 2010; volatility in the trading price of our common stock, current economic conditions and our ability to access capital; the impact of unrelated parties not meeting our business requirements, including a significant adverse change in the ability or willingness of such parties to provide devices or infrastructure equipment for our CDMA network, or Motorola, Inc.s ability or willingness to provide related devices, infrastructure equipment and software applications, or to develop new technologies and devices or features, for our iDEN network; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new geographic markets; the financial performance of Clearwire and its deployment of a 4G network; the impact of difficulties we may encounter in connection with the continued integration of the businesses and assets of Virgin Mobile USA, Inc. and iPCS, Inc., including the risk that these difficulties may limit our ability to fully integrate the operations of these businesses and the risk that we may be unable to continue to retain key employees; the effects of mergers and consolidations and new entrants in the communications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the communications industry; unexpected results of litigation filed against us or our suppliers or vendors; the impact of adverse network performance; the costs or potential customer impacts of compliance with regulatory mandates including, but not limited to, compliance with the FCCs Report and Order to reconfigure the 800 MHz band; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other breaches of network or information technology security; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political, economic or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes or other external factors over which we have no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in this report and other filings of ours with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The words may, could, estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, plan, providing guidance and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are found throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events.