Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the SEC. While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview ServiceNow is a leading provider of cloud-based services to automate and manage IT service relationships across the global enterprise. Our services include a suite of IT service automation applications built on our proprietary platform that can be rapidly deployed and configured. Customers use our services to create a single system of record for enterprise IT, automate manual tasks, standardize processes and consolidate legacy systems. Using ServiceNow, IT departments can accelerate their shift from managing IT infrastructure to managing IT service relationships across the enterprise with greater transparency, accountability and auditability. Our proprietary platform enables our customers to create custom applications and evolve the IT service model to service domains inside and outside the enterprise. We offer our services under a Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS, business model. Customers access our services over the Internet through an easy-to-use, consumer-like interface. We provide our services from servers we manage in co-location facilities. Service upgrades are designed to be compatible with configuration changes and applied with minimal disruption to ongoing operations. Our multi-instance architecture has proven scalability for global enterprises, as well as advantages in security, reliability and deployment location. We primarily market our services to large enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. We sell our services through direct field sales and indirect channel sales. We also provide implementation services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. In February 2012, we changed our fiscal year-end from June 30 to December 31. Throughout this filing, references to fiscal 2009, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2010 and 2011, while references to 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 refer to the respective years ending on December 31. Transforming IT All too often, legacy IT service management products are inflexible and IT demands from lines of business and shared services in the enterprise are unmet. The result has been the proliferation of applications outside the control of the IT organization. IT organizations have often lacked visibility into the full range of applications being used across the enterprise, and have been confronted with the challenge of managing disparate systems and the underlying infrastructure. Further, this fragmentation has resulted in an inability to audit, govern and meet compliance obligations. Work that should flow smoothly from one process to the next with easy-to-use technology and full transparency is forced to migrate through different, opaque and complex data models, interfaces and technologies, often with human involvement. At the same time, workers are demanding consumer-friendly IT applications that can be customized to meet business requirements. Users in the enterprise are coming to expect the same intuitive experience with applications they use at work as they have with applications they use at home. 1 Our Subscription Services We offer a suite of cloud-based applications that automate and manage IT and other service relationships across the enterprise: IT Service Automation Applications. ServiceNow IT Service Automation Applications evolve the service model so that IT professionals can spend more time delivering innovative business solutions and less time managing disparate legacy applications and the underlying infrastructure. IT can replace fragmented systems with SaaS applications that use a single data model, provide a single system of record for IT and automate associated workflows across the enterprise. Custom Application Development. ServiceNow users can rapidly turn ideas into working applications. These applications are built on the ServiceNow Service Automation Platform, which is designed to be used by both professional developers and non-technical IT personnel. ServiceNow users can build a wide variety of powerful business applications where there is a requester, a service process and a response. These applications can be built with minimal coding using a rich set of prebuilt services and templates and published with a single click. Custom applications can span from a single department to the entire enterprise, and may include order management, HR case management, legal request processing and other line of business and shared services applications. Expert Services We provide expert services to help customers transform IT, including leadership, guidance and education and support services. Professional services. Customers configure our applications and build custom applications for their organizational structures and workflows. We provide implementation services through our professional services group and a network of partners. Our professional services can include customer guidance on implementation, comprehensive integration and implementation projects, and the development of custom applications. Training and certification. We offer training and certification solutions to our customers and partners that fit their requirements, skill levels, learning styles and schedules. Support. We offer technical support resources 24 hours a day, 7 days a week from support centers located in San Diego, Santa Clara, London, and Amsterdam. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing. Business Benefits Key customer benefits of our services include: Automation. Implementing work through standardized and automated workflows can improve the speed and accuracy of the delivery of services within the enterprise and increase the amount of work completed. Extensibility and scalability. A common data model and ease of customization and development enable customers to leverage their existing ServiceNow implementations to expand into additional applications and functionality across the enterprise. Speed and ease of implementation. A comprehensive set of feature-rich IT Service Automation Applications delivered as SaaS enable rapid implementation of business solutions. Governance and compliance. The consolidation of previously disparate applications enables auditing, governance, transparency and reporting. Powerful reporting features deliver visibility into the costs and service performance of IT, including access to key performance indicators, benchmarking and executive dashboards. User satisfaction. Delivering a mobile-enabled, consumerized storefront, with personalized dashboards and reporting, embedded user self-help and collaboration features, increases user satisfaction and use of IT-managed applications. Reduced infrastructure requirements. We provide and support a secure high-availability infrastructure and install and manage included software updates. 2 Expertise. We provide access to highly skilled professional services, training, technical support, and dedicated peer support engagement programs, including annual user conferences, local user groups, special interest groups, online forums and blogs, collaboration and knowledge sharing for end users, partners and application developers. Our Applications Our services offer the following applications, options and capabilities: IT Service Automation Applications Incident Management enables customers to restore normal IT operations by providing capabilities to record, classify, distribute and manage incidents. Problem Management facilitates the process of identifying the root causes of errors in the IT infrastructure by providing capabilities to record, escalate and manage problems. Change Management allows repeatable methods and procedures to be used for introducing change into the IT infrastructure by providing capabilities for creating, assessing, approving and executing changes. Release Management facilitates the planning, design, build, configuration, testing and release of hardware and software into the IT infrastructure. Request Management provides capabilities to approve and fulfill requests for IT goods and services defined and presented in the service catalog. Configuration Management (CMDB) provides capabilities to identify, record and report on IT configuration items and their relationships. Asset Management provides capabilities to track and manage the physical, contractual and financial aspects of IT assets. Project Portfolio Management provides capabilities to plan, organize, and manage IT projects and project portfolios, including associated tasks and resources. Software Development Lifecycle Management provides capabilities to manage the software development process in IT projects including enhancement requests, defect prioritization, definition of release content and tasks. IT Governance, Risk and Compliance provides capabilities to document IT policies and procedures, define and assess risks and controls, audit and test controls and track remediation tasks. IT Cost Management provides capabilities to track one-time and recurring costs of configuration items used by IT and allocate those costs to business units using allocation rules. Work Management provides capabilities to create work order records for the repair and service of IT equipment, including capabilities to qualify, dispatch and issue work tasks based on location and skill. Vendor Performance Management provides capabilities to manage, evaluate and compare IT vendors based on predefined criteria. Resource Management provides capabilities to view IT projects and the availability, allocation and capacity of assigned IT resources. Case Management Applications HR Service Automation provides capabilities to manage the service delivery of human resources departments by offering a self-service catalog, assignment of requests based on fulfillment rules and reporting. 3 Options and Add-Ons Our customers can also purchase a number of services as add-on services, or service options, to accompany applications they have purchased. These service options include: Performance Analytics provides advanced analytics and time series analysis for key performance indicators. Discovery locates devices connected to an enterprise network. When Discovery locates a device, it explores its configuration, status, software and relationships to other connected devices and updates the Configuration Management Database. Orchestration Core enables the automation of activities taking place outside of the ServiceNow environment. Orchestration Cloud Provisioning Application provides the capability to automate the lifecycle of public and private Orchestration Cloud Provisioning Catalog Items. Orchestration Password Reset Application provides the capability to reset users passwords that are stored and pre-authenticated in a credential store outside customers instances of the subscription service such as Active Directory and other supported credential stores. Orchestration Configuration Automation Application provides the capability to manage the configuration settings of a physical or virtual device. Custom Application Development CreateNow Development Suite provides a browser-based, consolidated and comprehensive set of tools to manage the entire lifecycle of an application from creation to deployment. ServiceNow users can create powerful applications with minimal or no coding. Users can easily collaborate with each other using the team development feature. Completed applications can easily be deployed to a single department or the entire enterprise and are instantly available through mobile devices. Our Service Automation Platform The ServiceNow Service Automation Platform is a highly configurable, easy-to-use and extensible cloud platform built on an enterprise-grade infrastructure. All ServiceNow applications, as well as custom applications created by ServiceNow customers and partners, are built on this common, underlying platform. All of these applications leverage one user interface, one code base and one data model to create a single system of record for IT and the enterprise. Our Technology We designed our cloud-based service to support large global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our services are focused on: Scalability . Our services are designed to support concurrent user sessions within a global enterprise. Across our customer base we process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data while enabling best-in-class transaction processing time. Availability . Our customers are highly dependent on our services for the day-to-day operations of their IT infrastructure. Our services are designed as an always on solution. Security and Compliance . We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. We offer services that have received SSAE 16 (SOC1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2 and ISO 27001 third-party attestation. Our U.S. federal services have received a FISMA Moderate Authorization (ATO) attestation that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base. Additionally, our data centers have an ISO27001 or SSAE16 attestation or equivalent. We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web 2.0 technologies like AJAX and HTML that give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our hardware primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively, and the system is highly portable across multiple platforms including Microsoft Windows, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle databases. 4 Unlike many SaaS vendors, we operate a multi-instance architecture that provides all customers with dedicated applications and databases. Most customers run on shared infrastructure servers while larger customers may run on dedicated servers. This architecture reduces risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location. We are also investing in enhancements to our cloud architecture, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. In limited circumstances, we grant certain customers the right to deploy our subscription service on the customers' own servers without significant penalty. Our multi-instance architecture gives us the added flexibility to deploy our applications on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed at the customer site, we define the hardware requirements that the customers must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the applications and provide ongoing customer support in a similar way to how we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. A small percentage of our customers run an on-premises solution. Sales and Marketing We sell our services through direct field sales and indirect channel sales. Our primary sales channel is direct sales, and we also partner with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. In the past year we have made significant investments in direct sales in many markets outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to invest in our direct sales force globally. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, and webinars where customers and partners both participate in and present a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Customers We primarily market our services to large enterprises. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments. As of December 31, 2013 , we had 2,061 customers that operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. Backlog Backlog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our agreements and is not included in deferred revenue. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 , we had backlog of approximately $608 million and $379 million , respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Data Center Operations We currently run our services from data centers located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Australia. We are also in the process of establishing a data center in Brazil. Our data centers operate in a mirrored 5 configuration to provide high availability. We plan to add data centers, or expand our existing data center operations, as required to meet regulatory requirements and accommodate growth. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our services. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. Competition The markets in which we compete to automate and manage IT service relationships are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for automating and managing IT service relationships matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging SaaS and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we face and will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, we have recently begun to seek patent protection for our technology. We pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our service offerings. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Companies in our industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We currently face, and we expect we will face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. For additional information, see Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report. 6 Employees As of December 31, 2013 , we had 1,830 full-time employees worldwide, including 636 in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 615 in sales and marketing, 352 in research and development and 227 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect our revenue growth rate to decline. As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to generate or sustain profitability or positive cash flow from operations. From fiscal 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2013 , our revenues grew from $19.3 million to $424.7 million . We expect that our revenue growth rate will decline. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in increased costs. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from operations. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our operating results will be harmed. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued guidance, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or we fail to meet or exceed any forward guidance we have issued, or if any forward guidance we give is below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers requirements; the number of new employees added; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new services; the length of the sales cycle for our services; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in effective tax rates; general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customers purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services; changes in the average duration of our customer agreements; changes in our renewal and upsell rates; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; and the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 8 We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We continue to experience rapid growth in our customer base and have significantly expanded our operations during the last several years. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operations, infrastructure, facilities and other resources. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to expand our sales force, facilities, infrastructure and operations, and refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our costs and expenses may increase more than we plan and we may lose the ability to close customer opportunities, enhance our existing service, develop new applications, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Disruptions in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any disruptions in our services could damage our customers' businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we have found defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. We provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may also result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our reputation and business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. We face security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks. If any of these risks occur, our services may be perceived as not secure, we may lose prospective customers, existing customers may curtail or stop using our services, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive information including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information, proprietary intellectual property and credit card information. We do not control or monitor the information that customers process in our services, we are unaware of the type, sensitivity and value of the customer information processed in our services and we do not vary our service offering and security measures due to the content of customer data. We have legal and contractual obligations to protect the confidentiality and appropriate use of customer data. Security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks could expose us to substantial litigation expenses and damages, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, mitigation expenses and other liability. Additionally, unauthorized persons may obtain access to our own sensitive, proprietary or confidential information or systems including our intellectual property and other confidential business information and our information technology systems. Such access could be used to compromise our competitive position, our ability to deliver our services or our ability to manage and operate our business. The security measures protecting our customers' and our own information and systems could be breached as a result of third party action, employee error or misconduct. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, and 9 we may incur significant liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches. If we are not able to enhance our existing service, develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to enhance our services and provide it in a way that is broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and enhance our services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, Internet software practices, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. In addition, we must effectively make our services available in additional ways, including on mobile devices. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid developments, our services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete. Our success also depends on our ability to develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our suite of applications for use within IT, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. We are expanding the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT and offerings for small and medium-sized businesses. The success of any enhancement or new application, and the success of our efforts to promote the use of our services for development of custom applications, depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For instance, we recently changed the way that we price and package our services, and prospective or existing customers may not accept the new pricing. In addition, sales of new services may erode sales of our existing similar services. If we are unable to enhance our existing service, successfully develop new applications or promote the use of our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our technology to meet our customers performance and other requirements. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to meet the expanding needs of our customers as their use of our services grows. We expect the number of users and transactions we manage, the amount of data we transfer, process and store, the number of locations from which our services are being accessed, and the number of processes and systems we manage to continue to grow. In the past, a few of our largest customers experienced reduced levels of availability, performance and functionality due to the scale at which they implemented our services. In order to meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue making significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our services and cloud-based infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include databases, applications and server optimizations, network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. In addition, it takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. We are also dependent upon open source and other third-party technologies and may be unable to quickly effect changes to such technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our services and operations to meet the growing needs of our customers, we may not be able to grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce or cancel use of our services, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business and operating results may be harmed. We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our managements attention, and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments. We may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their technology is not easily adapted to work with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may: 10 issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; incur large charges or substantial liabilities; encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse technologies, software or business cultures; and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The markets in which we compete to automate and manage IT service relationships are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for automating and managing IT service relationships matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging SaaS and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. If the market for our technology delivery model develops more slowly than we expect, our growth may slow or stall, and our operating results would be harmed. Use of SaaS applications to automate and manage IT service relationships is at an early stage. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise SaaS solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. In particular, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS. Furthermore, some organizations, particularly large enterprises upon which we are dependent, have been reluctant or unwilling to use SaaS because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. In addition, if other SaaS providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for SaaS solutions as a whole, including our services, will be negatively impacted. If the adoption of SaaS solutions does not continue, the market for these solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our operating results. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. From December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013, our sales and marketing organization increased from 350 to 615 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. Further, new hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories 11 and our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we plan, or at all. Moreover, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing overseas marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement. Our business will be harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and their continued performance. We depend on various third parties, such as implementation partners, systems integrators, managed services providers and sales partners in order to grow our business. Our sales efforts have focused on large enterprise customers and there are a limited number of partners with the capacity to provide these customers a significant level of services. In order to continue our growth, we need to recruit these partners and these partners need to devote substantial resources to our solutions. Accordingly, we need to build services, implement partner programs, and provide training and other resources to recruit, retain and enable these partners. Our agreements with partners are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing solutions. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our partners to favor their solutions or otherwise disrupt the relationships we have with our partners. In addition, global economic conditions could harm the businesses of our partners, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the additional resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we may need to establish relationships with additional sales and implementation partners. Further, reliance on third parties exposes us to risk of poor performance and failed customer expectations. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by a third party, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customers dissatisfaction could damage our reputation or ability to obtain additional revenues from that customer or prospective customers. Our business depends substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions and purchasing additional subscriptions from us. Any decline in customer renewals or additional purchases would harm our operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when the initial contract term expires and add additional authorized users to their subscriptions. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may not renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of authorized users. Although our renewal rates have been historically high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our subscription service, professional services, customer support, or prices, the prices of competing solutions, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers spending levels. Our growth also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional professional services to our current customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to add more authorized users or fail to purchase additional professional services, our revenues may decline, and our operating results would be harmed. Because our sales efforts are targeted at large enterprise customers, we face longer sales cycles, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. If our sales cycle lengthens, or if our sales investments do not result in sufficient sales, our operating results could be harmed. We target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers. Because these customers are often making an enterprise-wide decision to deploy our services, sometimes on a global basis, we face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our sales cycle is generally six to nine months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be much longer. Large enterprises often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our services, including whether they need professional services performed by us or a third party for their IT and business process needs, and a comparison of our services to products offered by our competitors. Moreover, our large enterprise customers often begin to deploy our services on a limited basis, but nevertheless demand extensive configuration, integration services and pricing concessions, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our services widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront sales and implementation investments do not result in sufficient subscription revenues to justify our investments, our operating results could be harmed. We depend on our senior management team and if we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business could be harmed. 12 Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud-based infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. We may be unable to develop or obtain intellectual property that provides us with a competitive advantage or prevents third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We have recently begun to seek patent protection for our technology. We may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have and in the future may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses in defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be harmed. We have been, and may in the future be, sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends in part on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or services. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. We intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. This litigation is still in its early stages and the final outcome, including our liability, if any, with respect to Hewlett-Packards claims, is uncertain. If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in this litigation, the impact could be material to our business, financial condition, or results of operations, depending on the specific circumstances of the outcome. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our services or refund fees. Such disputes could also cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates and could cause us to lose potential sales. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our operating results. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. 13 A significant portion of the technologies licensed or developed by us incorporate open source software, and we may incorporate open source software into other services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our services and technologies. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our services or technologies, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our services. We need to continue to invest in the growth of our worldwide operations by opening new geographic markets. If our required investments in these markets are greater than anticipated, or if our customer growth in these markets does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. We are continuing to expand worldwide and have recently significantly expanded our presence in Brazil and Asia. We have made and will continue to make substantial investments as we enter these and other new geographic markets. These include investments in data centers and cloud-based infrastructure, sales, marketing and administrative personnel and facilities. Often we must make these investments when it is still unclear whether future sales in the new market will justify the investments. In addition, these investments may be more expensive than we initially anticipate. If our required investments are greater than anticipated or if our customer growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Sales to customers outside North America expose us to risks inherent in international sales. Because we sell our services throughout the world, we are subject to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in North America. Sales outside of North America represented 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, and we intend to continue to expand our international sales efforts. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. The risks and challenges associated with sales to customers outside North America are different in some ways from those associated with sales in North America and we have a limited history addressing those risks and meeting those challenges. Furthermore, the business conduct and ethical standards of many other countries, including the emerging market countries that we are expanding into, are substantially different and much less rigorous than the United States. The risks and challenges inherent with international sales include: compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act; the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us; compliance with regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers data across international borders, many of which are stricter than the equivalent U.S. laws; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; different or lesser protection of our intellectual property; foreign currency fluctuations and controls; longer sales cycles; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; and regional economic and political conditions. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business and results of operations. A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. 14 A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to increased liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our services to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our services to them and to grow or maintain our customer base. Because we recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, downturns or upturns in new sales and renewals will not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions, which on average are approximately 33 months in duration for initial contract terms, although terms can range from 12 to 120 months. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have only a small, and perhaps no apparent, impact on our revenue results for that quarter. Such a decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct significant transactions, including intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is a risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could harm our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of earnings and losses in differing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of SaaS-based companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. 15 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things that we assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure