Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, impacts on our business, future financial performance and general economic conditions due to the current Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNows purpose is to make the world of work, work better for people. We believe that people want the technology they use in their work to be more efficient and easier to use. We build applications to meet that demand by automating existing processes and creating efficient, digitized workflows with a consumer grade user experience. Our products and services enable the steps of a job to flow naturally across disparate departments, systems and processes of a business. When work flows naturally, great experiences follow. Getting a job done in an enterprise (what we call a workflow) usually requires different people in various functions of an organization to work together. Often, they rely on different technology systems and inefficient, manual processes to complete each step of the job before moving along to the next. We believe that this approach is undergoing a transformation. Enterprises have to operate in new and faster ways and need digital processes and systems that can quickly pivot and adapt to rapidly changing business needs. We believe that the most effective digital transformation initiatives utilize tools that can integrate workflows across siloed systems, departments, processes and people. We also believe that many business challenges, whether it be the need for a streaming service to quickly and efficiently initiate and support new customer accounts or the need for state governments to efficiently manage the distribution of unemployment insurance payments, can be broken down into discrete tasks and those tasks can be managed digitally until the job, or the workflow, is complete. ServiceNow delivers digital workflows on a single enterprise cloud platform called the Now Platform. Our product portfolio is currently focused on providing Information Technology (IT), Employee and Customer workflows in standardized product offerings. We also enable our customers to design and build their own custom workflow applications using our Creator workflows, formerly called the Now Platform App Engine, and to integrate those applications with third party systems through our Integration Hub. The Now Platform is the foundation of our IT, Employee, Customer and Creator workflow offerings. We call it "the platform of platforms," because it connects people, functions and systems to drive innovation, increase business agility and unlock productivity. Because the Now Platform is built on a single technology platform, our own developers, and developers working for our customers, can innovate quickly and deploy solutions rapidly. Our increasing use of artificial intelligence and machine learning also allows for the creation of many workflows to quickly become fully automated. Our native mobile applications greatly assist in delivering those automated workflows to our customers employees. 1 Table of Contents While the importance of digital transformation has been increasing in recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic accelerated that need and underscored the critical importance of digital and automated workflows. As the world economy underwent increasing disruption, companies further along in their digital transformation were better able to maintain business continuity and improve productivity. When employees could no longer access their physical workspaces because of public health safety concerns, enterprises needed processes and systems that could communicate with one another without manual steps or intervention. The Now Platform became a critical tool to help many of our customers meet that need. The agility of the platform and the speed with which developers could create and automate solutions accelerated their digital transformation, which better equipped our customers for the future of work. Our standardized workflows helped our customers adapt and manage a remote workforce in a matter of weeks, not months, and our customers created their own solutions on the Now Platform in a matter of days and weeks, not months and years. Our own engineers were able to develop workforce management solutions in a matter of weeks, and update them on a regular cadence. When the pandemic first led to employers restricting their physical locations, we quickly developed applications to allow employers to communicate with employees and manage potential exposures to the virus, and over the course of the next months we developed applications to allow employers to manage their employees return to the workplace and maximize their safety in physical facilities. As vaccines were developed and are being distributed, we developed applications to help governments allow their citizens to access critical vaccine information, schedule appointments, and receive appointment notifications from vaccine providers. Our customers, from national, state and local governments to large private enterprises, have built their own custom solutions utilizing the Creator workflow offering. These are just some examples of how our customers leverage the Now Platform to optimize their investments in digital transformation and create a better experience for their employees and customers. We primarily deliver our software via the Internet as a service through a simple and easy-to-use interface so that we can rapidly deploy our packaged offerings, and customers can easily build their custom applications. In a minority of cases, customers choose to host our software by themselves or through a third-party service provider. We market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our products through subscription services and primarily through direct sales. We also offer professional services, both directly and through partners, to help our customers deploy and utilize our products and platform. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated in Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. Our Products Our portfolio includes the Now Platform, and standardized applications specifically designed for automating IT, Employee and Customer workflows. It also includes Creator workflows, which support custom workflow creation, application development, and integration with third party systems, and make these custom applications available on the ServiceNow Store. Each of our products and services helps in critical aspects of our customers digital transformation process, and some of these products and services, as captured in the graphic and described below, are used in multiple workflows. 2 Table of Contents The Now Platform The Now Platform is a single-cloud platform with one data model and one architecture, enabling speed, flexibility and innovation. The Now Platform delivers workflows across siloed organizations and systems by connecting them together in a seamless way to unlock productivity and improve experiences for both employees and customers. As the foundation for how we deliver our enterprise-wide digital workflows, the Now Platform integrates and interoperates with our customers existing cloud platforms and legacy systems, allowing our customers to deliver workflows across their preferred systems of record and collaboration platforms. Our IT, Employee, and Customer workflows can be implemented by customers quickly. Our Creator workflows allow customers to design, build and integrate workflow applications on the Now Platform that are uniquely suited to their businesses. Among the many services that our platform supports are workflow automation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, performance analytics, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, encryption and collaboration and development tools. While every company has a different suite of user interfaces from web-based to mobile to conversation applications, the Now Platform creates a common user experience for customers to manage workflows across all of their interfaces. The Now Platform also powers three native mobile experiences for everyday work across the enterprise: Virtual Agent, Now Mobile and Mobile Onboarding. Enterprises can take advantage of consumer-like, mobile experiences, such as getting help from human resources or ordering a computer, from our platform. Our goal is to make our customers work lives as simple, easy and mobile-friendly as their personal lives. 3 Table of Contents IT Workflows Our roots are in IT workflows. Our founder initially saw a need for an integrated system in IT that identified issues, assigned those issues to the right people for resolution and remediated any systemic problems that created the issues. Our IT products have become increasingly sophisticated in assisting IT departments to serve their customers, manage their networks, identify and remediate security vulnerabilities and threats and reduce time spent on administrative tasks. With our IT workflows, on the Now Platform, we deliver one data model, and cross enterprise integration, which gives IT departments the ability to plan, build, operate and service across the entire IT lifecycle. Our artificial intelligence technology enables features like Virtual Agents to help employees using simple, human language, and predictive intelligence to power workflows with machine learning to automate routine tasks and get to resolution faster. Many of these capabilities are also used in our Employee and Customer workflows. IT Service Management As our flagship product suite, IT Service Management (ITSM) defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the IT services an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. Among the ITSM product suites capabilities are recording incidents, remediating problems and automating routine tasks and requests. ITSM also offers artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), predictive intelligence, Virtual Agent, performance analytics and continual improvement management capabilities. These AI and ML capabilities help our customers identify and recommend steps to be taken by a customer in remediating issues, driving efficiency and end-user satisfaction. With ITSM our customers can elevate their IT service experience by improving IT productivity, achieving new insights and consolidating IT services. For example, we enable our customers to provide service portals where their employees can request IT services, order software and hardware and submit IT incidents all in one place. IT Business Management Our IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customers IT project portfolio. With ITBM, we help our customers gain visibility, track progress, and continuously plan and optimize resources as priorities shift. DevOps Our enterprise DevOps product provides visibility across a product development toolchain. It integrates with the leading DevOps toolchains to provide automated change management, information gathering and collecting and a single dashboard across planning, development, testing, deployment and operations. With DevOps, our customers can streamline their software development and deployment processes. IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management (ITOM) product suite connects a customers physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customers IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. With ITOM, our customers can enhance visibility of IT resources, manage service health and optimize cloud delivery and spend. IT Asset Management Our IT Asset Management (ITAM) product automates customers IT software, hardware and cloud asset lifecycles with workflows to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of these IT assets throughout their lifecycles. With ITAM, our customers gain visibility into the full IT asset lifecycles to help optimize costs and automate workflows. 4 Table of Contents Security Operations Our security operations product connects with internal and third-party security alerts from a customers infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customers business. Our security operations product includes security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. With our security operations product, we help simplify our customers incident response by allowing them to replace manual tasks with automated security orchestration and to prioritize and remediate vulnerabilities and security incidents. Governance, Risk and Compliance Our Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) product suite helps customers manage risk and resilience in real time. Among the GRCs product suites capabilities are policy and compliance management, risk management, including detection and assessment, business continuity management, vendor risk management and operational risk management. GRC provides a unified data environment, dashboards, automated workflows and artificial intelligence capabilities to help customers with risk-based decisions and align resilience initiatives across the enterprise. With GRC, customers can also assess risk and make strategic decisions with confidence by being able to continuously monitor and prioritize risks. Employee Workflows Our Employee workflow products on the Now Platform can transform the employee experience and turn it into a competitive advantage. With our Employee workflows, our customers can simplify how their employees get the services they need, creating a familiar, consumer-like way to get work done from wherever an employee may beat home, in the workplace or in the field. We enable Employee workflows through our HR Service Delivery, Safe Workplace suite of applications, Workplace Service Delivery, and Legal Service Delivery. HR Service Delivery Our HR Service Delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR Service Delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. For example, tasks that start in HR but require action from other departments, such as new hire equipment selection and fulfillment, can be easily automated and orchestrated. With HR Service Delivery, we make it easy for our customers employees to get the services they need, allowing our customers to use fewer resources to serve more employees, streamline employee lifecycle events, and increase visibility, staffing efficiency and delivery of services. Safe Workplace Suite In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we rapidly innovated and created a Safe Workplace suite of applications and a dashboard, enabling business functions to work together across department systems, hiding the underlying complexity and making it easy to get work done. For example, the Employee Health Screening App for self-certification and self-screening helps companies determine who is eligible to re-enter the workplace and the Workplace Service Delivery application helps companies determine if there is adequate space for employees to return to work and maintain safe social distance. These products were developed to help companies keep employees safe, increase engagement, improve productivity and maintain business continuity, all while creating a great user experience for employees. These products, including their bi-weekly releases and updates, demonstrate the Now Platforms agile and flexible product development capabilities and our ability to continue to deliver business solutions in response to rapidly changing operating conditions. Workplace Service Delivery Our Workplace Service Delivery product keeps our customers workplaces running smoothly with a multi-channel, mobile-enabled solution. With Workplace Service Delivery, employees of our customers automate requests, reservations and repairs to help use space wisely, provide easy access to services, manage requests efficiently and get real-time visibility. For example, a remote employee can reserve a desk for a week and book a conference room for a team meeting, all from their mobile device. 5 Table of Contents Legal Service Delivery Our Legal Service Delivery product consolidates manual tools and modernizes internal legal operations processes to manage legal requests across the enterprise. With Legal Service Delivery, legal teams can gain efficiency, deliver support efficiently with automated responses and get insight into demand with real-time reporting and dashboards. Capabilities include practice-area request workflows, a workspace to route and manage requests, legal matter management for multi-step legal requests, and reporting and dashboards to view demand and service levels. For example, a sales representative can submit a request for a new customer contract, and the appropriate expert can manage the negotiation of the contract and obtain proper inputs from privacy, security, finance and other specialists to ultimately bring the contract to execution. Customer Workflows Todays customer service departments are filled with reactive agents searching multiple systems to find a single answer to customer issues. Our Customer workflow products help organizations reimagine the customer experience and increase customer loyalty. Integrating front-end customer service capabilities with operations and field service resources, our Customer workflow products help to create a seamless customer experience from issue to resolution through connected digital workflows that deliver fast support on a customers channel of choice. We enable Customer workflows through Customer Service Management, Field Service Management products, and Connected Operations. Customer Service Management Our Customer Service Management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates common customer service cases and requests, such as password resets, to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. With Customer Service Management, we help our customers elevate their customer service by boosting resolution efficiency and improving service quality through workflows, automation and artificial intelligence. Field Service Management Our Field Service Management product allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. With Field Service Management, we help our customers efficiently manage location-based work tasks, including dynamic scheduling and visual dispatch. Connected Operations Our Internet of Things (IoT) product, Connected Operations, unifies siloed data onto the Now Platform to help operations teams manage critical assets and derive value from their IoT investments. Connected operations allows customers to monitor IoT devices remotely, detect issues in near real time, manage incidents and take action across multiple teams. Creator Workflows As organizations digitally transform, they need to pivot faster with new processes and business models. This requires faster, more agile execution with more automation delivered through software applications. Our Creator workflow products enable our customers to quickly create, test, and deploy their own applications on the Now Platform. We enable Creator workflows through App Engine and IntegrationHub products. 6 Table of Contents App Engine Our App Engine product empowers enterprise-class low code application delivery with intuitive and intelligent experiences, at speed and scale. With App Engine, customers and third-party developers can create, test and deploy their own consumer-grade applications that can be scaled from a single department to the entire enterprise. Examples of applications our customers have developed include: an application developed by a company with a large network of seasonal retail stores and offices to track progress and identify issues in opening and closing their seasonal locations, which enabled significant cost savings; an application developed by the IT office of a university that allocated and billed costs associated with IT maintenance, allowing the university to retire multiple legacy software systems; and an application developed by a mortgage company to ensure that loan files were complete and accurate prior to packaging and selling the loans to investors. These types of applications, which extend the automation of our customers workflows, have been developed and deployed by our customers and third-party developers using App Engine. IntegrationHub Our IntegrationHub product enables anyone who creates an application on the Now Platform to extend workflows into third-party products, eliminating the need for other integration tools to connect a ServiceNow workflow with other software platforms. Integration hub provides a framework that allows developers to create and publish integrations for use by anyone. The Now Platform provides connectors to over one hundred products in the ServiceNow Store. In addition, the ServiceNow Store has hundreds of certified, ready to use applications from a growing independent software vendor ecosystem. The ServiceNow Store enables departments across an enterprise to do more with the Now Platform with certified applications that complement and extend the Now Platform into new use cases. Industry Solutions We have expanded existing partnerships to deliver our industry-specific product solutions and better address the unique needs of specific industries. We currently offer industry product solutions for financial services and telecommunications and intend to offer more industry specific solutions for other industries. With Financial Services Operations as part of our Customer workflows, our financial services customers can unite their front, middle and back offices to improve customer and employee experiences. It also facilitates agile security responses to enhance risk protection and provides artificial intelligence capabilities and a unified system on a single cloud platform. With Telecommunications Network Performance Management as part of our IT workflows and Telecommunications Service Management as part of our Customer workflows, our telecommunications customers can connect their entire operationfrom the network to the customerwith one platform, proactively monitor the health of their networks and services, enhance customer care, automate service assurance and gain real-time data visibility. Professional Services Our Professional Services are offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners to help customers maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Our professional services include process design, implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. With our Now Value methodology as the foundation for customer success, our services bring together our experts and leading practices enabling our customers to create value and drive customer outcomes as they embark on enterprise digital transformations through the use of our platform. Our training services include programs for all of our products. Customer Support Customers receive standard and enhanced support around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online case creation. Our Technology and Operations We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. We host our full software-as-a-service experience on our own private cloud and use public cloud service providers for certain highly regulated customers. 7 Table of Contents Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States, and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies. We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements. While there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected the third-party alternative. The standard and enhanced customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers. Sales and Marketing We sell our product offerings and services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed services providers and resale partners. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including regional forums which we call Now at Work, where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to educate them on industry best practices and help accelerate their success. We continue to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources, post-sales customer support resources and strategic alliance and implementation partners. We also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Partner Ecosystem In addition to our global direct sales organization, we also have a strong and growing ecosystem of partners that helps accelerate our customers digital transformation initiatives and deliver customer value at scale. Our partners play a critical role in helping companies digitally transform their business. Our industry and workflow capabilities paired with our partners industry and functional domain experience help customers of all sizes. Together with our partners, we offer industry and domain-focused solutions at scale and are accelerating digital transformation as we help companies drive new approaches in engaging their end users and employees. For example, we formed a business group with one of our partners to develop joint industry and workflow solutions to help customers transform at scale and achieve their digital transform initiatives faster. Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers, and we host and support large, enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 6,900 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, telco, education and consumer products. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and validation of our solutions. We focus on innovating and developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. Using emerging technologies, we can anticipate customer demands and then bring new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to broaden our platform capabilities, strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies. 8 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Investments In addition to continuing to invest in our own research and development efforts, we have made acquisitions and investments in the past and will continue to assess opportunities for strategic acquisitions and investments to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. Our focus is on building out our platform and products through both organic investments to support customer needs and acquisitions of talent and enhanced capabilities. For example, a number of our acquisitions in 2020 focused on bringing AI capabilities to the Now Platform and across our suite of products. Competition We compete in markets that are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As these markets continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter such markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include: large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors; new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways; solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools; vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service providers and development operations; and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. Accordingly, we compete with both cloud-based and traditional, enterprise-application, software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets and verticals, we expect increasing competition from platform and application development vendors focused on these markets and verticals. Various factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, customer experience, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security, adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility, performance, relevance and traction. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. An existing competitor or potential competitor could introduce new technology, or more effectively utilize existing technology, that reduces demand for our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors may also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other offerings, which may enable them to offer their products and services at a lower price. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of U.S. and international copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. In certain of our partnership arrangements, our partners may develop technology on the Now Platform that may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property rights that we agree to with the partner. We continue to grow our global patent portfolio and IP rights that relate to our platform, applications, services, research and development and other activities. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We have over 950 U.S. and foreign patents, including patents acquired from third parties, and over 750 pen ding patent applications. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or other IP right or group of related patents or IP rights. We file patent applications to protect our IP and have and may continue to acquire additional patents, patent portfolios, or patent applications. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that have been or may be issued or acquired may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon them. 9 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality similar to ours. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we operate may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our IP rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from utilizing their developments to compete with us. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Our industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other IP rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other IP rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility, expanding solutions footprint, and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of IP infringement claims. See Risk FactorsLawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results for additional information. Human Capital Management We have over 13,000 employees worldwide and strive to ensure that our employees understand, embrace and deliver on our purpose to make the world of work, work better for people. We believe that our employees' commitment to our purpose contributes to higher employee satisfaction, productivity and results in the creation of more customer-focused products and services. This year, much of our human capital management efforts focused on Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging, and ensuring a proper and effective response to the COVID-19 pandemic for our employees. As of December 31, 2020, we had 13,096 full-time employees worldwide. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers councils and have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements. Purpose, Culture and Employee Engagement As a company, we undertake numerous efforts to ensure that our employees understand, embrace and deliver on our purpose: to make the world of work, work better for people. From a recruiting process in which we evaluate candidates in part based on their commitment to our purpose, to an onboarding process that includes content on purpose and how our products impact our customers, to regular company-wide meetings in which our purpose is a central theme, to department and individual discussions of purpose, we seek to provide education in a variety of formats. We regularly measure our employees engagement to determine whether they see their work contributing to the Companys larger purpose, including through an Employee Voice Survey. Our culture is driven by our core company values: Win as a team Embrace diversity, create belonging Enjoy the journey Deliver customer success Innovate and execute Stay hungry and humble We screen leadership hires and measure employee performance against these company values, and regularly measure employee engagement against these values through our Employee Voice Survey. We believe our values-driven culture of open and transparent communication has contributed to our recognition as a great place to work by our employees. 10 Table of Contents Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Commitment to Equality of Opportunity, Pay Equity and Employee Well-Being Embracing diversity, inclusion and belonging is a business imperative that is core to how we operate, recruit talent, develop our people, create culture and innovate. Diverse, inclusive teams where everyone feels they belong are high performing teams that are more innovative, productive and engaged. We have believed in this principle and invested resources in this area for some time, but the need for investment in diversity was more widely recognized in the technology industry in 2020. In past years, we have evaluated pay equity practices for our workforce, and we plan to do so on an ongoing basis, to ensure employees at the same job title and level are paid consistently. We have regularly measured our representation of women in the Company, including in leadership and technical positions. As of December 2019, in the US, where we have pay data by gender, race, and ethnicity, women and under-represented groups earn $1.00 and $1.01 for every $1.00 earned by their male and white counterparts, respectively. As of December 2019, globally, where we have pay data by gender, women earn $0.99 for every $1.00 earned by their male counterparts. We have published our gender representation and pay equity data in an annual Diversity Report, which we have posted on our public-facing website. We are committed to employee well-being and offer mental and behavioral health support to our employees, including therapy and educational resources. Human Capital Management in Response to COVID-19 In responding to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, we prioritized ensuring the safety and health of our employees. Before health guidance suggested shelter in place initiatives, we began to limit business travel and encourage remote working. Then, in advance of shelter in place requirements, we adopted a company policy encouraging all employees to work from home and closed most of our offices (including our headquarters), except for certain critical positions. In April 2020, we committed to protect the jobs of our global workforce through 2020 with a no layoff pledge despite the economic uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic. We met that commitment and did not conduct any layoffs in 2020. In addition to meeting our commitment to the no layoff pledge, we had a net increase to our total headcount of approximately 26%. Since transitioning to a mostly work from home environment, we launched regular employee surveys to check in on employee well-being and sentiment on return to workplace readiness. Recognizing the impact of COVID-19 on our employees mental health, we also offered additional wellness and behavioral health education and resources to our employees. We also continued to invest in the future of our workforce by hosting our summer intern program globally with more than 360 interns participating digitally. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations/sec-filings.html as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations.html), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. Our stock price could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting global economic uncertainty, and measures taken in response will continue to impact our business and future results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. Beginning in early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic began to have widespread impact on the health of the population and a broader impact on the markets. The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the flow of the economy and put unprecedented strains on governments, health care systems, educational institutions, businesses and individuals around the world. The pandemic had a significant impact in 2020, and its ongoing impact into 2021 and beyond is difficult to assess or predict. It is even more difficult to predict the impact on the global economic market, which will be highly dependent upon the continuing actions of governments, businesses and other enterprises in response to the pandemic and the effectiveness of those actions. If the pandemic were to endure for the longer term, recession, depression or other sustained adverse market events may result. Some customers or potential customers, particularly in industries most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic including transportation, hospitality, retail and energy, reduced their IT spending or delayed their digital transformation initiatives in 2020 and these reductions and delays in spend by our customers and prospects could persist. We experienced some curtailed customer demand, reduced customer spend or contract duration, delayed collections, lengthened payment terms, and impact on our ability to land new customers. If we should see an increase in such effects or increased competitive pressures due to changes in terms and conditions and pricing of our competitors products and services, our business, results of operations and overall financial performance in future periods could be materially and adversely impacted. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed most of our offices (including our headquarters) around the world, encouraged our employees to work remotely, implemented travel restrictions for all non-essential business, and canceled or shifted certain of our customer, industry, analyst, investor, and employee events to virtual-only experiences. For the immediate future, we have deemed it advisable to continue to do so, though our approach may vary among geographies depending on appropriate health protocols. Additionally, our efforts to re-open our offices safely may not be successful, could expose our employees to health risks and could involve additional costs or liability. We expect that the COVID-19 pandemic will have a long-term effect on the nature of our office environment, remote working and how we innovate. While we believe that this will be a positive development over the longer term, there may be operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business, including talent retention, in the shorter term. As a result of the impact of COVID-19 on our business, in our Q1 2020 earnings we revised our external guidance to investors as to our expectations of our financial performance for the full year 2020 to account for impacts that have occurred and further expected impacts. Because we are a subscription business, the reduction in performance for 2020 will impact future years as well. If the COVID-19 pandemic continues or worsens, especially in regions in which we have material operations or sales, our business activities from impacted areas, including sales-related activities, could be adversely affected. Disruptive activities could include continued business closures in impacted areas, further or continued restrictions on our employees and other service providers ability to travel, impacts to productivity if our employees or their family members experience health issues, and potential delays in hiring and onboarding mainly in our general and administrative functions. The COVID-19 pandemic could also impact our data center operations, including potential disruptions to the supply chain of hardware needed to maintain these third-party systems, and primary vendors we rely on for products and services that allow our employees to work remotely. Further, we may experience increased cyberattacks and security challenges as our global employee base and vendors and other third parties work remotely on less secure systems. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business will depend on certain developments including the duration and spread of the outbreak; future infection spikes resulting in additional preventative measures; the availability and timing of the distribution of an effective vaccine; the severity of the economic decline attributable to the pandemic and timing and nature of a potential economic recovery; government responses, including the effectiveness, extent and duration of efforts to limit the spread and impact of the disease, such as shelter in place and similar government directives, all of which are highly uncertain and unpredictable. While our revenues, billings and earnings are relatively 12 Table of Contents predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods and could cause our future results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic also may heighten other risks, including significant volatility in the global markets, trading prices of our common stock, interest rate and foreign currency described in this Risk Factors section. Risks caused or heightened by the COVID-19 pandemic may continue for the duration of and possibly beyond the COVID-19 pandemic for an indefinite period. Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business We participate in intensely competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for digital workflow products matures and new technologies and competitors enter the market, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include: large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors; new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways; solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools; vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service and development operations; and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. As our offerings have become more widely adopted and successful in the market, more competitors are developing competing offerings. Many of our existing competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships (including at the executive level of large enterprises), larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. While we believe that our platform and products can largely be complementary to large, established systems that traditionally operate as systems of record, competitors may try to enter our space. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. They may utilize acquisitions, integrations or consolidations to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality or other advantages. They may reduce the price of competing products or subscriptions or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions, causing our products to appear relatively more expensive. They may also invest in industry-specific solutions that purport to provide a unique solution for that industry. Additional companies may expand their services to compete with our services, or we may shift our products and services to compete with current and future competitors in adjacent markets. We have expanded, and expect to continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets and the use of our platform by developers. As a result, we expect increasing competition from companies focused on these other markets. Smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressures, including in the IT market, which includes our more mature offerings and from which we derive a large portion of our revenues. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competition could result in reduced sales and margins, losses or failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. If we do not accurately predict, prepare for, and respond promptly to rapidly evolving technological, market and customer developments, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. We compete in markets that continue to evolve rapidly. The pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their purchases on digital technologies and shift to modern cloud-based infrastructure and agile ways of working. As digital transformation accelerates across the enterprise, capabilities such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotic process automation, low-code application development, database scalability, consumer-grade user experiences, collaboration, Internet-connected devices, security, cryptography, internal software development operations, and application and service awareness become increasingly relevant to customers evolving needs. Our customers and prospective customers are either facing competing imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or have already been built on fully-digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies. Accordingly, to compete effectively, we must: identify and innovate in the right emerging technologies, knowing that we cannot make substantial investments in all of them; accurately predict our customers changing business needs, priorities and adoption practices, including their technology infrastructures and buying and budgetary practices; invest in and continually optimize our own technology platform so that it continues to meet the very high performance 13 Table of Contents expectations of our customers; successfully deliver new, scalable platform and database technologies and products to meet these needs and priorities; efficiently integrate with other technologies within our customers digital environments; expand our offerings into industries and to buyers who are not familiar with our offerings; profitably market and sell products to companies and buyers in markets where our sales and marketing teams have less experience; and effectively deliver, directly or through our partner ecosystem, the business process planning, IT systems architecture planning, and product implementation services that our customers require to be successful. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position, strategic relevance and business prospects may be harmed. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Sales outside of North America represented 35% and 34% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, including sales to enterprises in the public sector outside the United States (the US). The failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and subjects us to different regulatory, political and economic risks from those in the US. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers, cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, partnership arrangements, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments. We may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new large enterprise customers, a factor affecting our growth, has generally been lower in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established and where there may be increased or changing regulations and operational and intellectual property risks, as compared to North America, Australia and Western Europe. An increasing proportion of the large enterprises that are not yet our customers are located in emerging markets where we are less established. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including hiring qualified sales management personnel, penetrating the target market, anticipating and ensuring compliance with regulatory developments, and managing foreign operations in such locales. Risks inherent with making our products and services available in international markets include without limitation: compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, requirements to have local partner(s), local entity ownership limitations, technology transfer or sharing requirements, data residency and transfer laws and regulations, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA); the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our local employees or business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us or damage to our reputation; the risk that we will fail to meet the requirements of the rules and regulations relating to government or other public sector contracting; longer and potentially more complex sales and accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; tax treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause transactional and translational remeasurement losses; potential changes in international trade policies, tariffs, agreements and practices, including the adoption and expansion of formal or informal trade restrictions or regulatory frameworks favoring local competitors; potential threatening state-sponsored actions, including cybersecurity threats directed at local data centers, customers or end-users; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; and natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or pandemics. If we are unable to manage these risks, if our required investments in these international markets are greater than anticipated, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing sales in emerging markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Doing business with the public sector, including federal, state and local governments and agencies in the US, and heavily-regulated organizations and governments globally, subjects us to risks related to the government procurement process, budget decisions driven by statutory and regulatory determinations, termination of contracts, and compliance with government contracting requirements. We provide products and services to the U.S. federal, state and local governments and heavily-regulated organizations directly and through our partners. We have made, and may continue to make, significant investments to support future sales opportunities in the federal, state and local government sectors. This includes obtaining additional cloud security certification requirements for the ServiceNow Government Community Cloud, such as the U.S. Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) High Provisional Authority to Operate (P-ATO) from the Joint Authorization Board, and the U.S. Department of Defense Security Requirements Guide Impact Level 4 P-ATO for cloud computing by the Defense Information Systems Agency. However, government certification requirements may change, or we may be unable to achieve or sustain one or more government certifications, including those mentioned above. As a result, if such requirements change, our ability to sell into the government sector could be restricted until we demonstrate that we meet any revised certification requirements. A substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our distributor, resellers or service provider partners. Doing business with government entities presents a variety of risks. The procurement process for governments and their agencies is highly competitive, time-consuming and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to political influence. We incur significant up-front time and expense, which subjects us to additional compliance risks and costs, without any assurance that we (or a third-party distributor, reseller or service provider) will win a contract. Beyond this, demand for our products and services may be adversely impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability that in any given fiscal cycle may be reduced or delayed, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown. Further, if we are or our partner is successful in receiving a contract award, that award could be challenged by one or more aggrieved bidders through the applicable bid protest process. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. In the event a bid protest is unsuccessful, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, public sector customers may have contractual, statutory or regulatory rights to terminate current contracts with us or our third-party distributors or resellers for convenience or due to a default, though such risk may be assumed by such third-party distributor or reseller. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to a default, we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services or be precluded from doing further business with government entities. Further, entities providing services to governments are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, or performance of government contracts that give public sector customers substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. These may include rights with respect to price protection, the accuracy of information provided to the government, contractor compliance with supplier diversity policies, and other obligations that are particular to government contracts, such as termination rights. These obligations may apply to us and/or third-party resellers or distributors whose practices we may not control. Such parties non-compliance could impose repercussions with respect to contractual and customer satisfaction issues. In addition, federal, state, and local governments routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with these requirements. If, as a result of an audit, it is determined that we have failed to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines, and suspensions or debarment from future government business, all of which may cause us to suffer reputational harm. Further, we are increasingly doing business in heavily regulated industries, such as the financial services and health care industries. Current and prospective customers, such as those in these industries, may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements toward third-party vendors generally, or us in particular, that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. In addition, customers in these heavily-regulated areas often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products and practices. If one or more customers determines that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business. Our customers also include several non-U.S. governments, to which government procurement law risks similar to those present in U.S. government contracting also apply, particularly in certain emerging markets where our customer base is less 15 Table of Contents established. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA and similar laws of other countries, and general trade regulations, we could be subject to penalties and civil and/or criminal sanctions and our business could be materially adversely affected. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we will inevitably do more business with large enterprises and the public sector in countries that are perceived to have heightened levels of public sector corruption. Increased business in countries perceived to have heightened levels of corruption could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability from our business operations. We have implemented and continue to update our compliance program but there is a risk that our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, could take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. In addition, we are subject to compliance with general trade regulations relating to doing business outside the US, including certain restrictions on conducting trade in certain restricted countries or with certain entities or individuals. Any violation of the FCPA, other applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws or general trade regulations by our employees or our third-party intermediaries could subject us to significant risks and result in regulatory investigations, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage and/or severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, and prospects. We rely on our network of partners for an increasing portion of our revenues, and if these partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products may be limited, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. An increasing portion of our revenues is generated by sales through our network of partners, including managed service providers and resellers. Increasingly, we and our customers rely on our partners to provide professional services, including customer implementations, and there may not be enough qualified implementation partners available to meet customer demand. While we provide our partners with training and programs, including accreditations and certifications, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently. In addition, new partners may require extensive training and may require significant time and resources to achieve productivity. Our partners may subject us to lawsuits, potential liability, and reputational harm if, for example, any of our partners misrepresent the functionality of our platform or products to customers, fail to perform services to our customers expectations, or violate laws or our corporate policies. In addition, our partners may utilize our platform to develop products and services that could potentially compete with products and services that we offer currently or in the future. Concerns over competitive matters or intellectual property ownership could constrain these partnerships. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of partners, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their service delivery, our ability to sell our products and efficiently provide our services may be impacted, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to data and the Internet may adversely affect our business. National and local governments or agencies have adopted, and may continue to adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, the use of data in contexts referred to as artificial intelligence and machine learning, and data sovereignty or residency requirements concerning the location of data centers and support services. As a cloud-based service provider, we optimize performance of our products and services by utilizing data centers located in, and support provided from, different jurisdictions. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the collection, use, sharing, transfer or other processing of data, including personal data, could affect our ability to develop our products and services to maximize their utility, as well as our customers ability to use data or share data with service providers. Such changes may restrict our ability to use, store or otherwise process data of our customers in connection with providing and supporting our services. In some cases, this could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers ability to deploy our services globally. The costs of compliance with, and other obligations imposed by, the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), the ruling of the European Court of Justice in Schrems v. Facebook Ireland, Limited and interpretations of that ruling by regulators and customers, recommendations issued by the European Data Protection Board, new Standard Contractual Clauses issued by the European Commission, the California Consumer Privacy Act, as recently amended by a voter-approved proposition (the CCPA) and other privacy, data residency, sovereignty and transfer laws, regulations and standards (including self-regulatory standards) may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices 16 Table of Contents and/or policies, may limit the development, use and adoption of our services, including artificial intelligence and machine learning features, and could reduce overall demand for our services. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings or investigations against us by regulatory authorities or others, lead to significant fines, damages, orders or reputational harm and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Changes in our developed or acquired products and how such products utilize data could also alter or increase our compliance requirements. As a result, our innovation and business drivers in developing or acquiring new and emerging technologies and the demand for our products could be impacted. Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, our products may slow the adoption of our latest technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide services, decrease customer satisfaction, and adversely impact sales of additional products. We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introduction. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed. As we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We have acquired or invested in companies and technologies in the past as part of our business strategy and may continue to evaluate and execute potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of or investments in businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings, functionality or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Although we conduct reasonably extensive due diligence with each of the entities we engage for a strategic transaction, our due diligence efforts may not reveal every material concern that may exist either with respect to the target entity or our assumptions surrounding the resulting combination. These strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including: assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies; failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; potential adverse tax consequences; disruption to our business and diversion of management attention and other resources; potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers; dependence on acquired technologies or licenses for which alternatives may not be available to us without significant cost or complexity; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; introducing increased complexity and burden to maintain the technology platform or introducing vulnerabilities or threats by integrating acquired technologies; increased data privacy or security compliance requirements resulting from integrating the acquired technology or company with ours; impairment to our investments if our investees are unable to obtain future funding on favorable terms or at all; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or our stock price. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect our stock price. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business If we or our third-party service providers suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and, in some cases, government information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may be breached because of employee error or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. For example, third parties have attempted to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers data, and we have been the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Computer malware, ransomware, viruses, hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and they have occurred on our and our third-party service providers systems in the past and may occur again on these systems in the future. Because techniques used to sabotage, obtain unauthorized access to systems or prohibit authorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not detected until successfully launched against a target, we have been and may continue to be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. This may also include underlying infiltration of pre-existing systems, including those of our third-party service providers or customers, perpetrated by more sophisticated attackers, such as the late 2020 foreign cybersecurity attack on a U.S. IT company. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures; however, as cyber-security threats develop and grow more complex over time, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, service level agreement claims, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs and operational consequences of paying to access data, investigating, remediating, eliminating, complying with notice obligations and implementing additional measures designed to prevent actual or perceived security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Further, in most instances, our customers administer access to the data held in their particular instance for their employees and service providers. While we offer tools and support, customers are not required to utilize them and, accordingly, or for other reasons, a customer may suffer a cyber-security event on its own systems, unrelated to our own, and allow a malicious actor to obtain access to the customers information held on our platform. Even if such a breach is unrelated to our security programs or practices, such breach could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, eliminating and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, and could result in reputational harm to us. If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. For example, our current President and Chief Executive Officer was appointed in November 2019 and our current Chief Financial Officer was appointed in January 2020. While we seek to manage these transitions carefully, including by establishing strong processes and procedures and succession planning, such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge and cause disruptions to our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for diverse, talented product and engineering, sales and operations employees. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, and we may experience increased compensation and training costs that may not be offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly-skilled employees with appropriate qualifications, and may not be able to fill positions in desired geographic areas or at all. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, Hyderabad, Dublin, London, and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. Many of our employees, including all of our executive officers, are employed at-will and may terminate their employment with us at any time. If we fail to attract 18 Table of Contents new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, we believe our corporate culture of fostering innovation, teamwork and employee satisfaction has been a key contributor to our success to date. As we continue to grow and expand globally and navigate shifting workforce priorities, including an extended period of time in which our employees are working from their home locations or an increase in remote workers, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success. Lawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our competitors, other third parties and non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of patent infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. Moreover, the patent portfolios of many of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. For example, we have recorded material charges for legal settlements of such claims in the past. In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merit, we may incur substantial costs and attorneys fees and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us and we are found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and/or make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease offering or modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners, obtain costly licenses on their behalf, and/or refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Further, upon expiration of the term of any agreements that allow us to use third-party intellectual property, we may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms, if at all, in which case we may face intellectual property litigation. The mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the press, analysts and litigants could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers. This could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates, cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors and cause a substantial decline in our stock price. Any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under patent and other intellectual property protections of the US and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents acquired in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer services. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the US, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights or available remedies may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have initiated and, in the future, may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to possible litigation. Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software into other products and services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products and services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and services. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our products and services, we may be 19 Table of Contents subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our products and services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from distributing our products and services. Various factors, including our customers business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. Our business depends upon the successful implementation of our products by our customers either through us or our partners. Further, our customers business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, or other factors may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. For example, changes in the functional requirements of our customers, delays in timeline, or deviations from recommended best practices may occur during the course of an implementation project. As a result of these and other risks, we or our customers may incur significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase, implementation and enablement of our products. Some customer implementations may take longer than planned or fail to meet our customers expectations, which may delay our ability to sell additional products or result in customers canceling or failing to renew their subscriptions before our products have been fully implemented. Some customers may lack the employee talent or organizational capacity to manage a digital transformation such as our offering and, as a consequence, may be unable to see the benefits of our products. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, reputational harm, and opportunities for competitors to displace our products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in developing, delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service or ransomware attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data centers operated by several different providers located around the world, and serve certain of our customers using data center facilities operated by public cloud service providers. These data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error or negligence. Despite precautions taken at these centers, problems at these centers have occurred, resulting in interruptions in our services. Such problems could occur again and result in similar or lengthier service interruptions and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Similarly, customers may have unique requirements for system resiliency that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. The occurrence of payment delays, service credit, warranty or termination for material breach or other claims against us could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our service level credit accruals, other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We may not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. Risks Related to the Financial Performance or Financial Position of Our Business Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any quarterly or annual period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the 20 Table of Contents expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason, either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our financial performance to vary widely, or cause our forward-looking financial guidance to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors, include: our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy customers requirements; changes in our mix of products and services, including changes in our mix of cloud and self-hosted offerings, market penetration of our products, or use of our products by our customers; our ability to increase sales of certain new products; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposure; the rate of expansion, retention and productivity of our sales and engineering organizations; the number of new employees added; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new products and services; general economic conditions that may adversely affect our customers or prospective customers purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to business operation and expansion; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements; the length and complexity of the sales cycle and certification process for our services, especially for sales to larger enterprises, government and regulated organizations; changes in the size and complexity of our customer relationships; changes to our management, sales and account management teams as we scale and evolve business priorities; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions or products introduced by our competitors; changes in effective tax rates; changes in the average contract term of our customer agreements, timing of renewals, renewal rates, expansion within our existing customers and billings duration; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration, including the tax effects of acquisitions; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; our ability to comply with privacy laws and regulations; significant litigation or regulatory actions relating to claims of intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy laws, employment matters or any other significant matter; the amount and timing of equity awards and the related financial statement expenses; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services. Because we generally recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, a decrease in new subscriptions or renewals during a reporting period may not be immediately reflected in our operating results for that period. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. Net new annual contract value from new subscriptions and expansion contracts entered into during a period can generally be expected to generate revenues for the duration of the subscription term. As a result, a significant portion of the revenues we report in each period are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in any single reporting period will have a limited impact on our revenues for that period. In addition, our ability to adjust our cost structure in the event of a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions may be limited. Further, a decline in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a given period may not be fully reflected in our revenues for that period, but they will negatively affect our revenues in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers are generally recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, due to the complexity of certain customer contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment 21 Table of Contents required under Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) depends on contract-specific terms and may result in greater variability in revenues from period to period. In addition, a decrease in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a reporting period may not have an immediate impact on billings for that period due to factors that may offset the decrease, such as an increase in billings duration, the dollar value of contracts with future start dates, or the dollar value of collections in the current period related to contracts with future start dates. As our business grows, we expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline. We have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods; however, our longer-term revenue growth rate is declining, and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future due to a number of reasons, which may include maturation of our business, increasing competition, or decrease in the growth of our overall market. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our strategic priorities, which may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior periods as any indication of our future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile. Changes in our effective tax rate or rejection of our tax positions may adversely affect our financial position and results. We are subject to income taxes in the US and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. Additionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles or changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law, which could affect our results of operations in the period issued. Many countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. Recent global tax developments applicable to multinational businesses and increased scrutiny under tax examinations could have a material impact on our business and negatively affect our financial results. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period. Further, many of our most important intangible assets are held outside the US and are subject to inter-company agreements regarding the development and distribution of those assets to other jurisdictions with potential challenge under permanent establishment or transfer pricing principles. While we believe that our position is appropriate and well founded, in the event that our position was to be successfully challenged by taxing authorities in other jurisdictions, we may become subject to significant tax liabilities, which could harm our financial position and financial results. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the reasonable assurance level of our disclosure