Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, within this Annual Report, as well as those risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in our reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy or completeness. Moreover, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law or the listing rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and you are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 3 SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those highlighted in the section titled Risk Factors contained within this Annual Report. These risks could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline and could result in a loss of all or part of your investment. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, may apply to our business, activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and such growth may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to properly manage future growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand and reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, enhance and improve our platform, expand the number of trades we support, respond to changes in trades business demands or preferences or adapt to changes in trade industry practices, processes and technological advances, we may not remain competitive. Our operations can be seasonal, and the results of our operations can vary from quarter to quarter and year-over-year, so our financial performance in certain financial quarters or years may not be indicative of, or comparable to, our financial performance in subsequent financial quarters or years. Factors that adversely affect the trades industry, including industry consolidation, the increased prevalence of marketplaces for contractors, supply chain issues and labor shortages, could also adversely affect the demand for our platform and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We engage our team members in various ways, including direct hires, through professional employer organizations and as independent contractors. As a result of these methods of engagement, we face certain challenges and risks that can affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending and on our customers finances and operations, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for software designed to serve the trades is evolving, and our future success depends on the growth of the trades industry and our ability to adapt, keep pace and respond effectively to evolving markets. We face competition from both established and new companies offering services similar to ours, and many of our potential customers have developed, or could develop, proprietary solutions, all of which may have a negative effect on our ability to add new customers, retain existing customers and/or grow our business. We may be unsuccessful in making, integrating and maintaining acquisitions, including past acquisitions. We have incorporated and are incorporating traditional AI, machine learning and generative AI (GenAI) into some of our products. This technology is new and developing and may present operational and reputational risks or result in liability or harm to our reputation, business, results of operations or customers. Any failure to offer high quality support for our customers, including throughout the implementation process, may harm our relationships with our customers and, consequently, our business. 4 Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform will depend on our ability to develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. A majority of our customers are small- and medium-sized businesses, which can be more difficult and costly to retain than large businesses and may increase the impact of economic fluctuations on us. We rely on software and services licensed from other third parties. Defects in or the loss of software or services from third parties could increase our costs and adversely affect the quality of our service. If we or our third-party service providers experience a cybersecurity breach or other incident, including any breach or incident that allows, or is perceived to allow, unauthorized access to our platform or our Sensitive Information, our reputation and brand, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which we first identified in fiscal 2019, were remediated as of the end of fiscal 2024. While we remediated these material weaknesses, such remediation does not guarantee that our remediated controls will continue to be effective or that we will not experience other material weaknesses in the future, which could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. The multi-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with Ara Mahdessian and Vahe Kuzoyan (our Co-Founders), which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other major corporate transaction. Future issuances of our Class C common stock, if any, will not dilute the voting power of our Co-Founders, but will dilute their economic interest, which could cause their interests to conflict with your interests. Further, the issuance of shares of Class C common stock, whether to our Co-Founders or to other stockholders, could prolong the duration of our Co-Founders voting power. 5 PART I Item 1. Business. ServiceTitan is the operating system that powers the trades. We are modernizing a large and technologically underserved industryan industry commonly referred to as the trades. The trades consist of the collection of field service activities required to install, maintain, and service the infrastructure and systems of residences and commercial buildings. Tradespeoplelike your local plumber, roofer, landscaper, HVAC technician and others who are employed in the tradesare immensely skilled and extensively trained. They are the essential, unsung heroes who work tirelessly to ensure that our needs are met where we live or work, ready at a moments notice to leave their families in the middle of the night to go across town to help others. ServiceTitan was born in the trades and built for the trades. Our founders, Ara Mahdessian and Vahe Kuzoyan, are the sons of trades business owners and founded ServiceTitan to provide tradespeople, like their parents, with technology that is purpose built to help trades businesses thrive. Our software provides an end-to-end, cloud-based software platform that connects and manages a wide array of business workflows such as advertising, job scheduling and management, dispatching, generating estimates and invoices, payment processing and more. Tradespeople spend their days interfacing with the ServiceTitan platform across what we believe to be the five most business-critical functions, or the core centers of gravity, inside a trades business: CRM (customer relationship management, including sales enablement, marketing automation and customer service), FSM (field service management, including scheduling and dispatching), ERP (enterprise resource planning, including inventory), HCM (human capital management, including compensation and payroll integration) and FinTech (including payments and third-party consumer financing). By offering interoperable capabilities in all five centers of gravity, we continuously capture comprehensive data insights across key workflows in a trades business. ServiceTitan is focused on the success of our customers. We believe that our customers success leads to our success, and our broad platform, close customer proximity and deep connection with the industry enable us to improve our customers business outcomes. We believe we have the largest proprietary data asset in our industry, which means we can see and learn from an industry-specific dataset; and we are the system of record for our customers, solving end-to-end workflow. Because of these factors, we are fundamentally able to turn insights into action, a foundation that is accelerated by our AI capabilities. This helps our customers grow and further professionalize their businesses, positioning them to accelerate revenue, drive operational efficiency and deliver a superior end-customer service experience. Industry Background Access to clean water, consistent power, heated and ventilated air, an environment free from pest infestations, and a roof overhead are just some of the basic requirements of the modern home and business. We take these standards of living and comforts for granted until something goes wronga water pipe bursts, the heat goes out in the dead of winter or the power goes down in the middle of the workday. It is in these moments when tradespeople come to the rescue and we remember how much we depend on the trades. The Trades Are Large, Durable and Rapidly Professionalizing The trades are a cornerstone of our global economy and one of the largest employment categories for the U.S. workforce. They attract considerable spending on homes, businesses and other properties. Historically, the trades consisted of smaller, often family-owned entrepreneurial businesses with limited operational and geographical footprints. However, in recent years, more businesses are seeking to integrate modern technologies into their operations. Furthering this paradigm shift is the influx of professional operators, including private equity owners, who are investing in and consolidating the trades, standardizing the operations of their portfolio companies, implementing best practices and accelerating the digital shift with a focus on scaling and improving efficiency. At the same time, end customers increasingly demand seamless digital experiences that have become commonplace in other industries. 6 The Trades Require an Industry-Centric Approach Trades businesses are complex in nature, servicing many types of jobs across complex workflows in distributed locations. Despite the size and criticality of the trades and the specialized skills of tradespeople, technology solutions have generally not evolved to address their needs. Thus, many trades are forced to rely on a variety of inadequate tools to manage their workflows. We believe that to adequately serve the trades, a software solution needs to be purpose-built for the nuanced dynamics of the trades, including the following: Distributed Workforce with Dynamic Workflows. Trade workflows are often fluid and geographically distributed as technicians, dispatchers, customer support representatives, salespeople, and owners may all be in separate and changing locations throughout the day but require immediate collaborative capabilities. Each job requires these distinct and separated constituents to frequently and dynamically interact with one another in real time to appropriately address an end customers job requirements. Individual Trades Have Similar but Distinct Characteristics. The industry consists of a wide array of trades that service different needs of households and businesses. Though each trade has similar operational challenges and business goals, there are often many unique workflows and specifications that require configurations based on the nuances of a particular trade and/or end customer. Technology Adoption Requires Business Transformation. Often there are structural inefficiencies in trades businesses historical operational workflows. However, these processes have existed for generations, and trades businesses may be apprehensive to invest in technology solutions that carry the risk of massively disrupting their established norms. Since trades businesses tend to devote their resources to serving their customers, they often lack large IT organizations required to stitch together narrow solutions, build software products in-house or customize horizontal technology to fit their distinct workflows. Given the distinct characteristics and challenges of the trades, the need for a software platform built specifically for and trusted by this industry is critical. The ServiceTitan Approach The trades deserve a modern platform to deliver superior performance from the back-office to field technicians to end customers. ServiceTitan was born to heed this calling. Our differentiated approach to drive success for our customers is built on the following cornerstones: Our Software is Trades-Specific, End-to-End, and Extensible Across Trade Verticals. We have built what we believe to be the first and only comprehensive cloud-based software solution designed specifically for the diverse spectrum of trades businesses, fully integrating across all critical operational functions (CRM, FSM, ERP, HCM and FinTech). Rather than targeting specific functional areas as is traditional in enterprise software, we target our entire customera trades businessand have purpose-built our platform to cover their needs and workflows end-to-end. We Are Experts in the Trades. We are emphatically focused on understanding the evolving challenges and workflows of trades stakeholders through continuously engaging with customers and observing their utilization of our products. We also employ industry experts, such as former contractors, former association leaders and other subject matter experts, and work closely with customers and industry partners, including large distributors, OEMs and industry associations, to maintain a constant pulse of the trades. We Leverage Our Data Assets and AI to Drive Customer ROI. ServiceTitan lives and breathes the trades and, in turn, the trades live and breathe ServiceTitan. Trades businesses spend their days using our platform and processing key workflows through us. Our unique position across the trades ecosystem provides us with an unrivaled ability to collect data across all workflows and all users, which we anonymize, aggregate, and analyze to glean insights and productize further improvements for our customers, and in turn provides data to Titan Intelligence, our AI engine, to automate customer tasks and drive additional insight-based actions. We not only embed AI-driven features and insights within existing products, but we have launched and plan to launch additional innovative, purpose-built, add-on AI products designed specifically for the trades. We will continue to weave Titan Intelligence throughout our 7 products, enhancing the value of our products to our customers and leveraging the power of AI in additional use cases. We believe we have the three necessary ingredients to harness the power of AI to drive value for our customers: (1) massive and growing proprietary data assets; (2) similar customer profiles with common workflows; and (3) an end-to-end platform that allows us to put insights into action. Components of Our Platform ServiceTitan was built to be the operating system that powers the trades. We designed our platform to comprehensively address key workflows for trades businesses including call tracking, scheduling, dispatching, end-customer communications, marketing automation, estimating, sales, inventory and payroll integration. Our customers access our platform through a web browser if in the office and through a mobile application if in the field (primarily technicians). Given the vertical-specific nature of the trades, we tailor certain product offerings to address specific needs of each trade. Our platform offers key benefits through three main offerings: Core, FinTech and Pro products. Our entry point to a typical customers business is through our Core product offering, which offers a base-level functionality across all key workflows, including call tracking, scheduling, dispatching, end-customer communications, marketing automation, estimating, job costing, sales, inventory and payroll integration. To supplement our Core product and provide an even higher level of functionality, we offer our comprehensive portfolio of our Pro products, which provide value-additive capabilities, as well as our FinTech products, which include payment processing and third-party financing solutions. As our customers adopt more of our platforms additive products and features, we have the opportunity to further accelerate the growth of their business, drive operational efficiencies and deliver a superior end-customer experience. Our platform is also highly extensible because of our application programming interfaces (APIs) and developer tools that allow our customers to integrate our products with their systems and third-party applications, further extending and embedding our platform into the broader trades ecosystem. Our partners and system integrators regularly engage with our platform to create value-add extensions that help serve our customers in an even more complete and flexible manner. Through our platform, our customers are able to generate leads, book jobs, dispatch technicians, track performance, take payments, among other capabilities more fully described below. For additional information regarding the seasonality and other trends impacting our platform and business, refer to Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Lead Generation Lead Tracking A single customer can have thousands of online leads from a variety of sources, including ads, Yelp and Google sponsorships, which makes knowing which lead sources are producing inbound calls critical to maximizing our customers sales and marketing ROI. ServiceTitans lead tracking feature assigns a unique phone number to each marketing campaign that helps map leads to revenue-generating jobs and provides a customer visibility into the effectiveness of each marketing dollar. Memberships, Service Agreements and Contracts Our platform allows our customers to effortlessly create new maintenance memberships and equipment-based contracts that are customizable to apply discounts or offer upgrades for additional services. Our customers are also notified when end customers memberships are expiring and are provided a summary of the membership information to ensure they have the right data when following up on renewals Additionally, we offer our business customers the flexibility to provide services using service agreements. This feature offers customers consistent and predictable revenue-generating opportunities to generate work. 8 Marketing Pro To complement our standard lead tracking feature, Marketing Pro offers automated email marketing, direct mail marketing services, reputation management, ads measurement and optimization and Audience Builder. Convex Convex Labs, Inc. is a sales and marketing platform built specifically for trades businesses focused on serving commercial buildings that enables such trades businesses to identify new opportunities and expand existing relationships with a comprehensive view of commercial properties, contact, business and permit information. Job Booking Call Booking and Recording Our Call Booking and Recording feature automatically populates end-customer information as calls come in, making appointment booking an informed and effortless process. We use our data-driven insights to show customer service representatives key property details and customer history. ServiceTitan routes an end customers call through a call recording system and attaches the recording to the related job, allowing a business owner to regularly review calls for quality assurance. Google Local Service Ads Integration Our Google Local Service Ads Integration feature enables a prospective end customer to view availability and book directly with our customers with the click of a button using Google search. Phones Pro Phones Pro is a Voice over Internet Protocol phone system that allows customers to route calls through the ServiceTitan platform. This allows our customers to immediately know which customer service representative is taking the call, enabling in-depth reporting on key performance indicators such as call abandonment rates and average call duration. Phones Pro also allows our customers to receive call transcripts and automated alerts for escalation. We also use AI in our Second Chance Leads feature to analyze interactions that failed to result in booked appointments and are worth pursuing a second attempt. Contact Center Pro Contact Center Pro is an omnichannel, multi-location, AI-powered cloud contact center solution built specifically for the trades to provide better customer service, book more jobs, increase revenue, boost contact center productivity and streamline costs. The Universal Inbox in Contact Center Pro allows customer service agents to access inbound and outbound communications across multiple channels and businesses as well as critical contextual information and key workflows from a single, easy-to-use user interface. Scheduling Pro Scheduling Pro allows end customers to book work orders directly through the dispatch board at any time, resulting in less friction for end customers who would otherwise be in queue, and increased orders for our customers even during periods when sales representatives are busy or after-hours. This feature helps our customers capture revenue that may otherwise be lost. Dispatching Technician Customer Notifications End customers receive automated text notifications when their job is booked and the technician is on the way, along with the technicians picture and a link to the technicians GPS location. Moreover, end customers can directly communicate with the technician through a two-way chat feature and receive real-time updates. 9 Scheduling & Dispatching Our Scheduling & Dispatching dashboard provides information about a technicians schedule, current capacity and skill set, and an overview of booked appointments, recurring jobs and non-job events. With this critical information, dispatchers can efficiently schedule next jobs and respond to urgent requests and emergencies, all the while mapping the right technician to the job. Our platform also uses GPS systems to get real-time information on technician routes to find the most efficient routes and help businesses stay responsive. Dispatch Pro Dispatch Pro incorporates AI in our standard dispatch solutions to provide analyses that help customers make smarter business decisions. This AI-driven feature constantly improves the product algorithm to learn from technicians historical data (like total sales, average tickets, sold memberships, probability of generating leads, technician reassignment and more) to choose the best-matched technician for a job, while also optimizing technician routes. A key feature of Dispatch Pro is its ability to predict job values and outcomes, enabling customers to make data-driven decisions to optimize technician assignment for each job, which in turn helps our customers yield higher return on investment. Fleet Pro Fleet Pro is a comprehensive, proactive fleet management solution that helps managers efficiently manage their fleet, save money and maximize ROI on fleet spend. This feature pulls data from GPS and AI-assisted smart cameras connected to the ServiceTitan network to provide managers complete visibility into technicians vehicle use, including idle times, helping prevent inflated wages and identify lost billing opportunities. Performing Job Custom Forms Custom Forms ensures that our customers are collecting relevant information from their end customer to understand the job request, provide estimates and identify sales velocity opportunities. This feature also serves as quality control by mandating staff to follow predefined best practices across all verticals, such as safety checklists and opportunity review forms. Using the information collected, our platform identifies the appropriate language required in contracts, allowing our customers to focus on execution and client satisfaction. Job Costing and Project Management For projects that go beyond a single call or single day, understanding profitability in real time is critical. Our Job Costing and Project Management functionality helps our customers understand how to manage and track all their projects (whether at one or multiple locations) in real time using the Budget vs. Actual table features through step-by-step workflows, providing visibility into the phases of work a project goes through, percent expended and variances at an itemized level, and more. Our Job Estimating product allows customers to provide real-time estimates and proposals and significantly improve time to close sales. Property Intelligence and Custom Proposals Our PropertyIntel product allows our customers to collect, connect and visualize essential landscaping data to service more jobs in less time using features such as high-resolution aerial imagery for property measurement, precision measuring tools, automated time and cost estimates and autonomous mower and drone integrations. Once equipped with this landscaping data, our customers can use our Custom Proposals feature to design competitive bids and win jobs. Together with our Core product functionality, PropertyIntels capabilities allow customers to identify superior enhancement opportunities, target marketing efforts to specific property needs, increase service effectiveness and achieve greater levels of profitability. 10 Reporting Our customers can track performance by creating personalized key performance indicators or using our AI-powered benchmarked industry metrics and best practices that are generated by leveraging our most successful customers and analyzing anonymized customer data (Benchmark Insights). Pricebook Our platform allows customers to promptly offer a variety of pricing options to the end customer through a customizable pricebook that can be pre-loaded with pictures, videos, warranties and other information for each item. With our standard Pricebook feature, customers can track material and labor costs including bonuses and commissions for each item and make appropriate pricing adjustments, all the while getting real-time insights into their profit margins. Pricebook Pro Pricebook Pro offers capabilities that extend from pricing to estimates to inventory to accounting. Powered by Titan Intelligence, Pricebook Pro supplements our standard Pricebook product with value-additive features. Sales Pro Sales Pro is an AI-powered field technician coaching solution that records in-person field interactions and leverages AI to deliver personalized coaching to drive increases in close rates, ticket sizes and revenue while giving contractors visibility into what is occurring on appointments and jobs. By automatically recording, transcribing and analyzing on-site interactions directly within existing technician workflows, Sales Pro provides a complete virtual ridealong solution that surfaces coaching and learning opportunities to both managers and technicians in a social, engaging, peer-to-peer learning environment. Additionally, Sales Pro includes exclusive curated content created by ServiceTitan in partnership with industry leaders and experts so contractors of all types and sizes can learn from the best in the industry. Taking Payment Payment Processing Our platform offers integrated payment processing of credit cards, bank transfers (ACH) and checks via third parties, allowing technicians to process payments through customer portals or at the job for a seamless customer experience. Consumer Financing Using our Consumer Financing features, our customers can rapidly and efficiently connect end customers with third-party financing options to pay for the costs incurred in connection with the work performed. Through our platform, an end customer can even view their monthly payment, which is particularly important as trades businesses often perform critical, non-discretionary and expensive jobs such as replacing an HVAC or water heating system. Back Office Operations Accounting Our platform provides a suite of accounting capabilities (for example, timekeeping, payroll, accounts receivable, accounts payable, collections and multi-party billing). We also provide AI-powered accounting assistance to automate personalized responses and job summarization. This reduces the time spent on print views and increases revenue by generating print templates aligned with customer specifications. Our accounting features also offer flexibility to work across various accounting platforms (including QuickBooks and Sage Intacct) and address our customers varying invoicing needs (ranging from single-party same-day invoices to multi-party, progress billing to insurance claims) in ways that make sense for businesses. 11 Commercial Billing Our billing feature allows trades businesses to improve operational efficiency and billing accuracy by automating billing processes. Further, as our platform has access to key details of projects, including initial estimates and labor and materials costs, we also provide progress billing capabilities, which prove to be helpful as projects are often paid over time. Procurement and Inventory Management Our software allows customers to swiftly replenish stock and manage inventory stored in trucks and warehouses across multiple geographic locations. Additionally, customers can make transfers and track in-process orders on a real-time basis through our Inventory Mobile App. These procurement and inventory management capabilities improve overall end-customer experience by ensuring accurate data entry and efficiently managing stock to avoid delays. Other Components of Our Platform TitanAdvisor We built TitanAdvisor to utilize data-driven insights from across our platform to identify and recommend features not yet implemented by a customer. TitanAdvisor recommends targeted features and products to help our customers achieve their top priorities, whether it be to accelerate growth or increase operational efficiency, and provides a step-by-step guide to implement the feature recommendations. Titan Intelligence Titan Intelligence, our AI engine, is woven into components of our Core and Pro product offerings and is integrated into our FinTech solutions. Titan Intelligence uses a rich set of AI, machine learning and analytics-powered tools that include the latest GenAI capabilities to harness ServiceTitan data and fuel industry insights, trends, features, products, recommendations, and data-driven strategies for the trades. Our Growth Opportunities and Strategies Our customers success is our first priority. Accordingly, we believe the following growth opportunities and strategies will deliver value to our customers and, in turn, to ServiceTitan. Increase GTV on Our Platform. We expand the GTV on our platform by enabling our customers to grow their GTV and by serving additional customers, either in trades and markets we operate in today, or in new trades and markets we may expand into in the future. o Growing with Our Customers. As our customers grow their businesses while using our platform, they often hire and add more users to their existing subscription and also complete more transactions through our platform, which both drive more revenue for ServiceTitan. Through deep partnership with these customers, we have become the market standard in these trades and, as our customers scale further, they may look to expand into additional trades we already serve, which they can leverage our platform to do. o Increasing GTV By Serving Additional Customers in Existing Trades and Markets. Our ability to increase GTV also depends on our ability to serve additional customers in existing trades and markets. As our platform has deepened and expanded in features, we have been able to serve larger customers. The trades industry is also experiencing an influx of professional operators, including private equity owners, who are investing in and consolidating the trades, in many cases on our platform. Because of these dynamics, we focus on increasing the GTV on our platform, rather than new customer count. 12 o Increasing GTV By Entering New Trades and Markets. We believe there is a significant opportunity to expand to new trades and markets. We intend to continue to invest in our platform to address the needs of additional trades. We have expanded into new trades through a proven playbook by harnessing common features applicable across the industry, while identifying and building key additional features specific to each trade and end market. We believe our track record and continued strategy to build features that directly address key pain points for our stakeholders across a growing number of trades will continue to differentiate us and help expand our customer base across a growing addressable market. As we expand to new trades, our best practice playbooks will continue to provide a blueprint for our customers to expand into additional trades. We also believe that there is a significant opportunity to strategically expand the usage of our platform outside of the United States and Canada over time based on the current needs of different regions. To date, we have not made any significant investments in growing our presence in international markets, but we believe there is demand for our platform internationally. Retaining and Expanding Existing Customer Relationships. Our customers deploy our platform end-to-end across their entire organization, meaning the ServiceTitan platform powers their workflows and is the primary interface used by their employees. We are deeply embedded as the operating system that powers our customers businesses and as a result, we had a gross dollar retention rate of over 95% for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As we continue to demonstrate the high ROI of our products to our customers, we may sell more add-on products to them and increase our share of wallet, which we measure as the portion of our customers GTV that we are able to earn. We orient our activities around what is best for our customers, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because we believe it drives our growth and financial success. o Driving Adoption of Add-on Products. As our customers realize the positive impact of using our platform, grow and further professionalize, they often adopt additional ServiceTitan features, namely our FinTech and Pro products. This increased adoption not only drives our revenue through adoption of existing add-on products, but also gives us a sharper perspective of how customers engage with our platform and what additional add-on products might be helpful for us to innovate. We then leverage our end-to-end expertise and extensive data assets to tailor additional new features that can remedy the inefficiencies we have identified in our customer workflows and to strengthen our existing capabilities by embedding more features that can drive value and make the platform even more powerful. o Building New Add-on Products. We have a history of building and launching add-on products where we see the opportunity to create significant positive impact for our customers. This impact comes from identifying an opportunity to add value because of a pain point our customers are experiencing, and from building a product that, when integrated with our end-to-end Core product, provides what we believe is an outsized value creation that is differentiated compared to other off-the-shelf vendors. Additionally, we may consider opportunities for acquisitions or other strategic transactions that advance our product roadmap more efficiently than building functionality ourselves through research and development. Our Customers We serve customers ranging from family-owned businesses with a few employees to large enterprises with a national footprint, some of which are an aggregation of multiple customers through a franchise network or other common buying partners, who employ directly, or through their franchise network, thousands of employees and generate over $1 billion in annual GTV. The key decision maker for our customers is typically the business owner, and for some of our larger customers it is common for the business owner to employ executives such as a chief information officer to manage and upgrade critical IT systems or a general manager to oversee business operations. The general manager is typically also a key influencer in buying decisions. We define a customer as a parent organization, which may have multiple locations, brands or subsidiaries, that has been billed in the prior three months, and of those customers we define Active Customers as customers with over $10,000 of annualized billings. As of January 31, 2025 and 2024, we had approximately 9,000 and 8,000 Active 13 Customers, respectively, representing over 97% and 96% of our annualized billings, respectively. As a testament to our platforms ability to scale with our customers, as of each of January 31, 2025 and 2024, we had over 1,000 customers with annualized billings exceeding $100,000 on our platform. Our platform helps customers accelerate revenue growth, increase overall productivity by unifying fragmented business processes, deliver a seamless customer service experience and provide operational visibility and insights to business owners. A differentiated employee experience is both a core value proposition of our software and a unique tailwind to customer adoption. Competition The market for technology and business process solutions catering to the needs of the trades is in its early phases of development and technology adoption with many trades businesses still relying on a combination of rudimentary workflows. Where incumbent technology has been adopted, it has generally had a limited impact because the incumbent technology typically lacks a singular, purpose-built platform that integrates a comprehensive set of mission-critical workflows throughout the project lifecycle and fails to empower a distributed and mobile workforce. We compete either directly or indirectly with software vendors offering point-specific tools for specific elements of trade workflows, horizontal solutions for generic functionalities, legacy on-premise field service management applications and narrow bundled solutions for down-market trades businesses. Examples of these software vendors include Salesforce, SAP, FieldEdge, Workwave, ServiceTrade, AccuLynx, BuildOps, HouseCall Pro, JobNimbus and Jobber. We expect competition to increase as other established and emerging companies enter our market, consumer platforms potentially build products to serve our customers, as customer requirements evolve and as new products and technologies, including those expedited by advancements in AI, are introduced. We believe that we compete favorably across key industry selection criteria, including our cloud-based platform connectivity, ease of deployment and integration, user experience, industry expertise, product breadth, customer support, proven success record, mobile capabilities, and innovation capacity. However, we could face significant risks to our business, financial condition and results of operations as a result of competition. For additional information, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and OperationsWe face competition from both established and new companies offering services similar to ours, and many of our potential customers have developed, or could develop, proprietary solutions, all of which may have a negative effect on our ability to add new customers, retain existing customers and/or grow our business. Sales and Marketing Our go-to-market strategy leverages our industry expertise to effectively and authentically communicate our platforms proven ability to address the trades unique workflows and challenges with business owners and key executives across both small and midsize and enterprise segments. We acquire customers through digital marketing, outbound direct marketing, significant word-of-mouth referrals, and partnerships with industry associations, original equipment manufacturers, and distributors. We primarily sell subscriptions to our Core product through our direct sales team, who conduct most sales virtually to accelerate onboarding. For larger enterprise prospects, our dedicated, geographically-distributed team targets key decision makers both in-person and virtually. Complementing new customer acquisition, our specialized FinTech and Pro product sales teams introduce additional products at the optimal times for each customer, using our insights from TitanAdvisor Scores to recommend solution to address our customers evolving needs. Customer Success Our customer experience teams support customers through their entire customer lifecycle, from initial onboarding to ongoing success and support. Our customer success organization consists of Implementation, Customer Success Management, Support and Professional Services, with dedicated support from operations and enablement teams. Our implementation and Professional Services teams assist each of our customers with onboarding and configuration, including data and accounting migrations, telecom setup and custom reporting, to ensure they are successful at go-live and beyond. Customers that subscribe to our Pro products are also assigned a resource to assist in optimization of those features. After initial onboarding, each customer is assigned a Customer Success Manager 14 (CSM), who works closely with our customers to assist them in fully utilizing ServiceTitan in the most effective way possible using tools such as TitanAdvisor to help guide customers to improve product adoption and utilization, which closely correlates to better customer business outcomes such as revenue and efficiency. Additionally, our customers also have access to our large knowledge base, webinars and a broader community of customers and power users, many of whom are certified through our Certified Administrators program, which help raise the level of knowledge, expertise, adoption rate and continuous improvement in the use of our products. We offer customer support via chat, phone and email, and have integrated AI solutions to enhance the customer experience. Our Customer Support teams aligned by specialized areas to provide dedicated knowledge and address customer needs quickly and effectively. As we continue to evolve the customer experience, we expect that CSMs will increasingly focus on the ongoing customer relationship, driving retention and product expansion. Research and Development Our research and development team consists of product, platform and infrastructure and site reliability engineering, product management, AI and data science, user experience and design, technical program management, content and enablement as well as product and information security. We invest substantial resources in research and development to enhance our platforms functionalities and expand the products and services we offer. We employ in-house industry experts (former tradespeople, former association leaders and others) to ensure we understand the trades and address the needs of the industry through product innovation and customer success. We continually review and incorporate suggestions, feedback and new use cases from our broad customer base and engaged community into our platform and invest substantial resources to improve our platform by incorporating this feedback. We believe these investments will help us maintain our competitive position. We also analyze the data flowing through our platform to understand opportunities for driving further efficiencies and productizing improvements for our customers. Additionally, we devote considerable attention and resources to what we refer to as customer trust, which entails providing a continuously secure, performant and stable platform in keeping with SaaS industry standards. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to safeguard our core technology and other intellectual property protection for our technology, inventions, improvements, proprietary rights and other assets. We seek to accomplish that objective by establishing intellectual property rights in and protecting those assets through a combination of patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret, protection, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee invention assignment agreements, non-disclosure agreements with third parties and other contractual measures. As of January 31, 2025, we held 16 issued U.S. patents, four issued foreign patents, and nine U.S. patent applications. In addition, as of January 31, 2025, we owned 16 registered trademarks in the United States, two pending trademark applications in the United States, and 20 registered trademarks in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We also have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. For additional information, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Government Regulation We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations may involve data privacy, security and protection, intellectual property, telecommunications, telemarketing, import and export controls, consumer protection, employment and labor, workplace safety, anti-bribery, immigration, federal securities and tax and other subjects. Additional laws and regulations relating to these areas likely will be passed in the future, and these or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted or enforced in new or expanded manners, each of which could result in significant limitations on ways we operate our business. There is a risk that certain regulations could become applicable to us as we expand the functionality of and products offered through our platform. New and evolving laws and regulations, and changes in their enforcement and interpretation, may require changes to our platform, products or business practices, and may significantly increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. As our business expands to include additional products or service additional trades businesses, and our operations 15 continue to expand internationally, our compliance requirements and costs may increase and we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Legal and Regulatory EnvironmentOur business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations could adversely affect our business for additional information about the laws and regulations we are subject to and the risks to our business associated with such laws and regulations. Our People As of January 31, 2025, we had a total of 3,049 Titans across the United States, Canada, Armenia and other international locations. We engage our Titans through direct employment, professional employer organizations (PEOs), and as independent contractors. In locations where we have not established a legal entity, we contract with the PEO to serve as the 'Employer of Record.' Individuals are employed by the PEO, but provide services to us under our day-to-day direction. In certain jurisdictions, the PEO facilitates our engagement with self-employed individuals who maintain their independent contractor status while accessing PEO services. The highest concentration of these workers are in Macedonia and Mexico. The majority of our workforce, however, is based in the United States, where our executive team and most of our engineering, product managers, sales and marketing, customer success and general and administrative personnel are located. Our Titans in Armenia and our other international locations primarily consist of engineers and customer success personnel. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment with us. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. We are highly dependent on our management and high-quality employees and it is crucial that we continue to attract and retain top talent. We believe that our employee relations are strong. 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and such growth may not be indicative of our future growth. If we fail to properly manage future growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods; however, our recent revenue growth rate and financial performance should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Our revenue was $771.9 million and $614.3 million for fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, respectively, representing a year-over-year increase of 26% in aggregate. Our overall revenue growth depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: attract new customers or retain existing customers; sell our suite of value-added products, including our Pro product offerings, to our existing customers or earn referral fees from our payment processing and consumer financing partners as part of our FinTech offerings; continue to improve the functionality of and develop new products for our platform for the trades we serve; enhance our platform and develop new products and serve trades businesses in trades we do not yet serve; provide our customers, their technicians, employees and other staff with the onboarding experience and ongoing level of support that they require; invest financial and operational resources to support future growth in our contractor, partner and other third-party relationships; expand our operations domestically and internationally; partner with third-party financial services and technology providers that are reliable and meet the needs of the trades we serve or intend to serve; retain and motivate existing personnel, and attract, integrate and retain new personnel; successfully identify, acquire and integrate businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform; effectively plan for and model future growth; and compete with other providers of software for the trades. You should not rely on our revenue or key business metrics for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue, revenue growth, key business metrics or key business metrics growth in future periods. 17 We expect our revenue growth rate to continue to fluctuate over the short term, and even if our revenue continues to increase, our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods as the size of our business grows and we achieve higher market adoption rates. Our opportunity for future growth also depends on other factors generally outside of our control, including changes in our customers budgetary constraints, end-customer use of the trades we serve, regulatory and macroeconomic conditions, business practices within the trades, increased competition and consolidation of businesses within the trades. We also expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased revenue. Further, our revenue growth rate may experience increased volatility due to global societal and economic disruption. If we do not effectively address these risks and maintain revenue growth, the value of our capital stock could be adversely affected. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $239.1 million and $195.1 million in fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, respectively and we had an accumulated deficit of $1.1 billion as of January 31, 2025. Generally, we expect our costs will increase over time and our losses to continue as we expect to invest significant additional funds towards growing our business and continue to adjust to operating as a public company. In addition, we plan to continue to manage our business towards the achievement of long-term growth that we believe will positively impact long-term stockholder value, and we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, substantial financial and other resources on product development, including new and innovative core functionality, products and services to address our customers evolving business needs, new products for adjacent markets and additional trade verticals, and improved customer experience across our targeted trade verticals; our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, management tools, scalability, availability, performance and security, as well as disaster recovery measures; our sales, marketing and customer success organizations; our onboarding and support organizations; acquisitions or strategic investments; expansion efforts, including geographic, market and new industry expansion; and general administration, including legal and accounting expenses as well as the increased operating expenses due to being a public company. These efforts may be more costly than we expect, may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business, and may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could negatively impact our gross margins and prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability or positive cash flows on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, although we believe our investments in our business are consistent with our strategic objective to achieve long-term growth, these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of some investors, and if we are ultimately unable to achieve profitability at the level anticipated by industry or financial analysts and our stockholders, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand and reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced strong growth in our employee headcount, our revenue, our reach across trades, the number of customers we serve and the number of transactions we process on our platform, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future. For example, our full-time employee headcount increased from 840 as of January 31, 2020 to 3,049 as of January 31, 2025, and we added employees both at our headquarters in Glendale, California and in a number of locations across the United States and internationally. Further, our revenue increased from $179.2 million for fiscal 2021 to $771.9 million for fiscal 2025. In addition, we have and may continue to pursue acquisitions to expand our business and operations. This rapid growth and organizational change have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial resources and could challenge our ability to develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls; enhance our reporting systems and procedures; recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel; and maintain customer satisfaction. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and to integrate new employees, technologies, geographies and acquisitions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational and financial infrastructure 18 and to continue to effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our culture. As we serve a growing number of customers and facilitate a growing number of transactions on our platform, we must continue to improve and expand our IT and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and relationships with various partners and other third parties. We have established research and development hubs and we rely on engineering contractors in international markets, and we may open additional offices in the future both in the United States and abroad. Because we employ personnel internationally, we are subject to additional risks customarily associated with foreign operations, such as labor and employment related risks, export compliance risks, risks related to political or regional instability and national security risks. These disruptions, and the outbreak of war in the area generally, from time to time have adversely affected, and could in the future affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and our calculated allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining the corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to customer success that has been central to our growth so far. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our solutions may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and our ability to retain and attract customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are likely to fluctuate from period to period, which could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. As a result, you should not rely upon our historical results of operations as indicators of future performance. We expect that our results of operations will vary as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: our ability to increase the number of new customers and expand our existing customers use of our platform and services; our ability to retain existing customers; the growth of our existing and future customers and the expansion of their businesses; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to maintaining and expanding our business, operations and infrastructure, including acquiring new and maintaining existing customers; the timing and success of new products or platform features introduced by us or our competitors; our ability to keep pace with technological advances and changes in practices and processes across the trades; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of trades businesses; general economic conditions, both domestically and in foreign markets; changes in spending on home and commercial services, including as a result of economic trends, natural or man-made catastrophes and COVID-19 and pandemics generally; the number or volume of transactions processed on our platform; changes in trades businesses or partner requirements or market needs; changes in the way we organize and compensate our employees; whether the industry for software for the trades develops more slowly than we expect; 19 our ability to successfully expand our business geographically and across the trades; the timing and length of our sales cycles; our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain management and other skilled personnel; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our business; changes in the competitive landscape of our market, including consolidation among competitors or trades businesses; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; insolvency or credit difficulties affecting our customers ability to purchase or pay for our platform; significant cybersecurity breaches or other incidents impacting, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the use of our platform; unusual expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments or outcomes; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies or practices; and changes in governmental or other regulations, including state and federal laws that affect our business and operations. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other results of operations for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. If we fail to effectively develop and commercialize new products, enhance and improve our platform, expand the number of trades we support, respond to changes in trades business demands or preferences or adapt to changes in trade industry practices, processes and technological advances, we may not remain competitive. Our ability to grow our customer base and increase revenue from customers will depend heavily on our ability to develop new products and enhance and improve our platform in order to meet the increasing needs of trades businesses across the trades we serve and intend to serve, respond to changes in customer demands and preferences, adapt to changes in trade industry practices, processes and technology and interoperate across an increasing range of devices, operating systems and third-party applications. Our customers may demand products and capabilities that our current platform does not have, or that our current platform cannot support, and we may need to invest significantly in research and development to build these products and capabilities. In addition, the trades businesses we serve experience their own rapid technological changes and evolving industry practices. Any new product or platform enhancements we develop or acquire might not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and might not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If any of our competitors implement new technologies before we are able to implement them, those competitors may be able to provide more effective products and services than ours at lower prices. Competitors may also develop and introduce new products or entirely new technologies to replace our existing platform, which could make our platform obsolete or adversely affect our business. New products or platform enhancements may initially suffer from performance and quality issues that may negatively impact our ability to market and sell such products to new and existing customers. Additionally, we may experience difficulties with software development, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new products, features or capabilities. We have in the past experienced delays in our internally planned release dates of new products, features and capabilities, and there can be no assurance that new products, features or capabilities will be released according to schedule. If our research and development investments do not accurately anticipate customer demand, if we fail to realize the benefits of these investments by not achieving market acceptance, or our new products or platform enhancements suffer from performance or quality issues or are delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 We have incorporated and may continue to incorporate traditional artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning and generative AI (GenAI) solutions into our platform, offerings, services, and features, including those based on large language models ("LLMs"), and these applications may become more important to our operations or to our future growth over time. We expect to rely on AI solutions to help drive future growth and operational efficiencies in our business, but there can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from AI or at all. We may also fail to properly implement or market our AI solutions. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations can be seasonal, and the results of our operations can vary from quarter to quarter and year-over-year, so our financial performance in certain financial quarters or years may not be indicative of, or comparable to, our financial performance in subsequent financial quarters or years. Our financial results and cash needs may vary greatly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on, among other things, the business performance of our customers, the seasonality inherent in some of our customers businesses (e.g., air conditioning demand peaking in summer months), extreme weather patterns (e.g., cold spikes causing increased demand for furnace and other home repairs), general economic conditions and the timing of holidays and other seasonal events. Because our results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, our financial results for one quarter or year cannot necessarily be compared to another quarter or year and may not be indicative of our future financial performance in subsequent quarters or years. As we serve larger customers and as we enter different trade verticals, the sales cycle may increase the variation of our results from quarter to quarter and year to year. Factors that adversely affect the trades industry, including industry consolidation, the increased prevalence of marketplaces for contractors, supply chain issues, tariffs on imported goods and labor shortages, could also adversely affect the demand for our platform and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive substantially all of our revenue from sales to trades businesses in the United States and Canada and transactions processed by such businesses. As a result, macroeconomic factors that negatively impact the trades industry, including industry consolidation, increased consumer reliance on online marketplaces connecting consumers to contractors, supply chain challenges, labor shortages and a lack of demand by consumers for the services provided by the trades, could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation of trades businesses into larger industry participants within the trades has accelerated in recent years, and this trend could continue. We have in the past suffered, and may continue to suffer, reductions in subscriptions or non-renewal of customer subscriptions due to industry consolidation. We may not be able to expand sales of our subscriptions, Pro and FinTech products to existing or new customers enough to counteract any negative impact of industry consolidation on our business. New companies that result from such consolidation may decide to develop their own internal solutions or work with alternative providers. As these companies consolidate, competition to provide solutions and services will become more intense and establishing relationships with large industry participants will become more important. Additionally, these industry participants may also try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products. If consolidation of our larger customers occurs, these consolidated companies may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on revenue from such consolidated companies to continue to achieve growth. 21 Trades businesses are also experiencing supply chain challenges, including shortages of equipment, manufactured goods and supplies, which negatively affect their ability to accept and perform certain jobs. Additionally, sharply rising prices of gasoline and other fleet management costs may affect the profitability of routes for technicians in the field, especially those involving large amounts of driving. Tariffs or other trade protection measures, including those recently announced, may also negatively impact trades businesses. Such trade protection measures could increase the cost of raw materials, manufactured goods and supplies used in various trade verticals, or render these supplies increasingly difficult or impossible to procure, which may adversely affect the profitability of trades businesses. When such supply chain shortages and issues arise, or when costs increase due to tariffs or other trade protection measures, our customers may reduce their spending, which could result in decreased demand for our platform, as well as a decrease in the number or volume of transactions processed on our platform. Moreover, trades businesses have experienced labor shortages as a result of an aging labor force and difficulty attracting new workers into the trades. These labor shortages can prevent trades businesses from accepting new jobs, limiting their businesses and reducing their revenues. The pricing of our subscription platform is partially based on the number of technicians employed by each of our customers, and any reduction in the skilled labor force hampers the growth of our customers and may negatively impact our revenues. Accordingly, our ability to efficiently provide our platform to trades businesses and to grow or maintain our customer base, and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be adversely affected by these and other factors that adversely affect the trades generally. We have a limited operating history at our current scale in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we are not successful. We have rapidly grown our business. For example, we first launched our platform in 2012, and our revenue grew from $120.7 million in fiscal 2020 to $771.9 million in fiscal 2025. We have started to expand our sales focus to include large businesses, commercial services and construction customers, and expect to continue to explore new trades. We have also substantially increased our headcount, invested in expanding our direct sales force and customer support teams and otherwise enhanced and developed new solutions. Accordingly, we have a limited history of operations at our current scale, and our ability to forecast our future results of operations and to plan for future growth is more limited than that of companies with longer operating histories and subject to a number of uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include our ability to: accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses; expand our sales team and develop an efficient sales, marketing, customer success and onboarding program that effectively addresses the needs of the customers in the trades that we serve or intend to serve; develop a scalable, efficient and reliable high-performance technology infrastructure; deploy new products and solutions that address the needs of the trades that we currently serve or intend to serve; hire, integrate and retain world-class talent; continue to partner with third-party financial services and technology providers that are reliable and meet the needs of the trades that we serve or intend to serve; successfully compete with other companies that currently offer, or may in the future offer, software and solutions to trades businesses in the trades; increase revenue from our platform; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our services or slower than expected load times for our services; store, protect, use and otherwise process personal information in compliance with governmental regulation, contractual obligations and other legal obligations related to data protection, privacy and cybersecurity; successfully expand our business across the trades; 22 predict and respond to general economic and market conditions, including those caused by pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, political or social unrest or macroeconomic factors such as rising inflation, trade protection measures, increased interest rates and lower consumer confidence and/or spending; successfully expand our geographic reach; defend ourselves against litigation, regulatory, intellectual property, data protection, privacy, cybersecurity or other claims; and manage a global workforce, including our growing team based in Armenia. If we fail to address the risks, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this section titled Risk Factors, and difficulties that we face, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, because we operate in a rapidly evolving market and have limited experience preparing financial forecasts, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history at our current scale or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We engage our team members in various ways, including direct hires, through professional employer organizations and as independent contractors. As a result of these methods of engagement, we face certain challenges and risks that can affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In the locations where we directly hire our employees, we must ensure we are compliant with the applicable local laws governing team members in those jurisdictions, including local employment and tax laws. In the locations where we utilize professional employer organizations (PEOs), we contract with the PEO for it to serve as Employer of Record for those team members engaged through the PEO in each applicable location. Under this model, team members are employed by the PEO but provide services to ServiceTitan. We also engage team members through a PEO self-employed model in certain jurisdictions where we contract with the PEO, which in turn contracts with individual team members as independent contractors. In all locations where we utilize PEOs, we rely on those PEOs to comply with local employment laws and regulations and to ensure our ownership of the intellectual property developed by the team members. We also issue equity to a substantial portion of our team members, including team members engaged through PEOs and to independent contractors, and must ensure we remain compliant with securities laws of the applicable jurisdiction where such team members are located. Additionally, in some cases, we utilize independent contractors. When we utilize a PEO or independent contractors, we may not be operating in strict compliance with local laws and regulations. Additionally, the agreements executed between PEOs and our team members or between us and team members engaged under the independent contractor model, may not be enforceable depending on the local laws because of the indirect relationship created through these engagement models. Accordingly, if any element of our engagement of team members through PEOs, or of our relationship with independent contractors, fails to comply with laws or regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, litigation related to our model of engaging team members, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources from our business. The impact of economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending and on our customers finances and operations, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The trades are impacted by economic slowdowns, tightening of economic policies, tariffs or other trade protection measures that increase the cost of or decrease the availability of imported goods, including trade disputes, fluctuations in interest rates, which can increase borrowing costs, and other actions that affect material and equipment pricing and availability, such as higher inflation. Unfavorable or deteriorating market conditions, reductions in maintenance spend by commercial property owners or residential customers, the unavailability or increased cost of 23 specific materials or supplies, reductions in the availability of business financing, government action which prevents or hinders the rendering of on-premise services or similar circumstances could have an adverse impact on our business. Our revenue may decrease because trades businesses may generally choose to delay or decide against purchases of software or information systems in times of unfavorable economic conditions, because workforce challenges or governmental policies prevent sufficient labor to meet demand or because fewer transactions are processed on our platform, resulting in reduced fees to us. Furthermore, if the trades industry experiences a decrease in overall economic activity, the amount our customers are willing to pay for our products could be reduced. Contractors may also work on fewer jobs, which would result in a reduction in transactions processed over our platform. To the extent we do not effectively address these risks and challenges, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, in the event of a general economic downturn or sudden disruption in business conditions, consumer and small business confidence, spending levels, access to credit and interest rates could be adversely affected, which could result in consumers delaying or foregoing purchasing primary or vacation residences, or purchasing smaller homes that may require lower-value home services, businesses foregoing investment or businesses or consumers delaying, foregoing or changing the scope of potential home or business projects. Decreased spend on home and commercial services could result in fewer transactions being processed over our platform, which could cause our revenue to decrease, and could also result in less income for our customers, hampering their ability to pay for our platform. These effects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is sensitive to events and trends that impact spend across the trades, including natural disasters, pandemics and climate change. We have historically been, and will continue to be, sensitive to events and trends, including pandemics, natural disasters, extreme weather events and climate change, that result in changes in demand for trades businesses. For example, hotter temperatures caused in part by climate change have led to surges in demand during the summer for our customers HVAC repair services. Weather events and natural disasters can also have drastic impacts on our customers and technical infrastructure and network systems. If we do not adequately prepare our systems and organization, other similar events or trends could cause a surge in activity for our customers and lead to system failures and delays in customer support, among other effects, which could harm our brand, reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pandemics, natural disasters, political crises and other unexpected events could also have a direct negative impact on our own operations. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, a region known for seismic activity and recently experienced severe fires, and our insurance coverage may not compensate us for losses that may occur in the event of an earthquake or other significant natural disaster, such as a fire, mudslide, flood or significant power outage. In addition, depending on the geographic location of the event, a natural disaster, or a series of smaller weather events caused by climate change, could cause performance problems with our technology infrastructure and operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain incident management and disaster response plans, in the event of a major disruption caused by a natural disaster or man-made problem, or outbreaks of pandemic diseases, we may be unable to continue our operations and may experience system interruptions, which could impede our ability to serve technicians when they are needed most. Acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest, including in or near Armenia, Macedonia and Poland, where certain of our employees and engineering contractors are located, could also cause disruptions in our business or the business of our contractors, partners, vendors, or the economy as a whole. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate, and could generally adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 The market for software designed to serve the trades is evolving, and our future success depends on the growth of the trades industry and our ability to adapt, keep pace and respond effectively to evolving markets. Widespread acceptance and use of technology by the trades in general, and our platform in particular, is critical to our future growth and success. While we believe that our platform addresses a significant market opportunity, the market may develop more slowly than we expect. If the market for software designed to serve the trades does not develop further or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for management software by trades businesses in general, and our platform in particular, is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these potential factors include: general awareness of the availability of software designed to serve the trades; ease of implementation of our platform by trades businesses, and our ability to decrease time-to-value for our customers; availability, functionality and pricing of platforms and products that compete with ours; changes in industry practices or methods that may or may not be addressed by our platform; ease of adoption and use of our platform; the reliability, performance or perceived performance of our platform, including interruptions to the use of our platform and products; the development and awareness of our brand; and privacy, data protection, or cybersecurity breaches or incidents impacting our platform or products. If we are unable to successfully address these potential factors, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We face competition from both established and new companies offering services similar to ours, and many of our potential customers have developed, or could develop, proprietary solutions, all of which may have a negative effect on our ability to add new customers, retain existing customers and/or grow our business. Our industry is highly competitive, and as we expand to serve additional industries and trades, we will compete against a growing number of companies and solutions specific to those industries and trades. We compete either directly or indirectly with software vendors offering point-specific tools for specific elements of trade workflows, horizontal solutions for generic functionalities, legacy on-premise field service management applications, and narrow bundled solutions for down-market trades businesses. Examples of these software vendors include Salesforce, SAP, FieldEdge, Workwave, ServiceTrade, AccuLynx, BuildOps, HouseCall Pro, JobNimbus and Jobber. The larger enterprises with whom we currently compete, or with whom we may compete in the future, have significant financial, technical, marketing and other resources, and they are able to devote meaningful resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their solutions and services. Additionally, our competitors may make substantial investments in AI capabilities that may allow them to replicate key aspects of our platform more quickly and cost-effectively than previously possible. Some existing solutions have extensive installed customer bases and broad customer relationships, together with longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. Moreover, certain trade verticals we explore may already be served by well-established companies, presenting a potential challenge in establishing a foothold within those markets. As a result, these competitors may be better able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns and/or offer their solutions and services at a discount to ours. Their increased deployment of AI technologies may also enable them to reduce costs while improving service quality and other capabilities. To the extent any of our competitors have existing relationships with potential customers, customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our subscriptions because of those existing relationships and this may limit our ability to successfully compete in certain markets or trades. Additionally, new entrants to the market are focused on fast and automated implementation of their solutions, and while their products do not have our complete product sets, they provide minimum functionality that small businesses may believe to be sufficient, especially if such businesses are willing to sacrifice functionality for speed of 25 deployment. Furthermore, advancements in, and the broad availability of, AI can expedite the development of new or competing products. If we are unable to compete with these existing or potential competitors and/or their products, particularly as they enhance their offerings through AI, the demand for our platform, our customer counts, and the revenue we generate could decline, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have incorporated and are incorporating traditional AI, machine learning and GenAI into some of our products. This technology is new and developing and may present operational and reputational risks or result in liability or harm to our reputation, business, results of operations or customers. We have incorporated a number of AI features into our products and believe that providing AI tools and insights will become increasingly important to the value that our solutions and services deliver to our customers. As with many developing technologies, LLMs in particular are a new and emerging technology that is in its early stages of commercial use and presents a number of inherent risks and challenges that could affect further development, adoption, and use, and therefore our business. Due to the evolving nature of the algorithms and technology underpinning LLMs, there is a risk that our AI solutions could produce inaccurate or misleading content or other discriminatory or unexpected results or behaviors (e.g., LLM hallucinatory behavior that can generate irrelevant, nonsensical or factually incorrect results). Further, the content, analyses or recommendations generated by our LLMs could produce information or other content that infringes, misappropriates or violates the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, increasing use of AI creates opportunities for the potential loss or misuse of personal and other data that forms part of any data set, including any of our proprietary data assets derived from our customers use of our platform, that was collected, used, stored, or transferred to build our AI solutions. If our access to such data sets were materially impaired, we may also be unable to further build, train and offer our AI solutions. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our reputation, business or customers and could result in additional lawsuits and regulatory investigations. Moreover, our employees, third-party service providers, strategic partners, and other contractors or consultants may input inappropriate or confidential information into an AI system (in particular a system that is managed, owned or controlled by a third-party), thereby compromising our business operations, which may cause business operation disruptions, could divert the attention of management and key information technology resources, and possibly lead to security breaches, or the unauthorized access to or loss of our confidential information or other business data. In addition, the use of AI involves significant technical complexity and requires specialized expertise. This specialized expertise can be difficult and costly to obtain given the increasing industry focus on AI development and competition for talent. As a result, it could be expensive for us to maintain and advance our AI developments. We may not apply AI advancements quickly or well enough to our solutions or services to serve our customers, or we may not be able to extract the efficiencies for which AI presents an opportunity. While the use of AI presents opportunities, our failure to adequately leverage such opportunities may erode our competitive advantage, and harm our business and results of operations. Further, our AI solutions rely on third-party proprietary machine learning algorithms and LLMs provided by third parties, such as Microsoft and OpenAI. If we are unable to continue to use such third-party assets, we may be unable to continue to provide our AI solutions which could harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, the use of AI applications may result in future cybersecurity incidents that implicate the personal information of end users of such applications. Any such cybersecurity incidents related to our use of AI applications could lead to litigation or other proceedings and liability, and may adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. If any of our vendors, service providers, employees or contractors use any AI solutions in connection with our business or the services they provide to us, it may lead to the inadvertent disclosure of our confidential information, or that of our customers, into publicly available third-party training data sets, which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of, or adequately maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property or confidential information, harming our customers and our competitive position and business. Our ability to mitigate risks associated with disclosure of our confidential information, including in connection with AI solutions, will depend on our implementation, maintenance, monitoring and enforcement of appropriate technical and administrative safeguards, policies and procedures governing the use of AI in our business. 26 Additionally, any content created by using LLMs may not be subject to copyright protection, which may adversely affect our intellectual property rights in, or ability to commercialize or use, the content. In the United States, a number of civil lawsuits have been initiated related to the foregoing and other concerns, the outcome of any one of which may, amongst other things, require us to limit the ways in which we use AI in our business and may affect our ability to develop our AI solutions and features. While AI-related lawsuits to date have generally focused on the AI service providers themselves, our use of any output produced by a LLM may expose us to claims, increasing our risks of liability. For example, the output produced by LLMs may include information subject to certain rights of publicity or privacy laws or constitute an unauthorized derivative work of the copyrighted material used in training the underlying AI model, any of which could also create a risk of liability for us, or adversely affect our customers and our business or operations. To the extent that we do not have sufficient rights to use the data or other material or content used in or produced by the GenAI tools used in our business, or if we experience cybersecurity incidents in connection with our use of AI, it could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to legal liability or regulatory risk, including with respect to third-party intellectual property, privacy, publicity, contractual or other rights. Further, social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies such as AI in our offerings, may result in reputational harm and liability, and may cause us to incur additional research and development costs to resolve such issues. AI presents emerging ethical issues and if we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, or legal liability. Failure to address AI ethics issues by us or others in our industry could undermine public confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services. Moreover, as the regulatory framework for AI (and machine learning technology) evolves, it is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and in non-U.S. jurisdictions, or that existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in ways that would affect the operation of our business, including the way in which we use AI and machine learning technology. The scope and direction of orders, policies, rules and regulations related to AI and machine learning at the federal level in the United States in the near future is uncertain. Meanwhile, various U.S. states have enacted laws that regulate the use of AI, including seventeen laws enacted in California in 2024 that provide consumers with certain protections around companies use of AI, such as by requiring companies to disclose certain uses of GenAI, Colorados Artificial Intelligence Act, which will require developers and deployers of high-risk AI systems to implement certain safeguards against algorithmic discrimination, and Utahs Artificial Intelligence Policy Act, which establishes disclosure requirements and accountability measures for the use of GenAI in certain consumer interactions. Our ability to provide AI-driven insights and products may also be constrained by current or future regulatory requirements in the United States or in non-U.S. jurisdictions that could restrict or impose burdensome and costly requirements on our ability to leverage data in innovative ways. Further, the cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and could increase our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the estimates and assumptions we have used to calculate the size of our addressable market opportunity are inaccurate, our future growth rate may be limited. We have estimated the size of our addressable market opportunity based on data published by third parties and on internally generated data and assumptions. While we believe our market size information is generally reliable, such information is inherently imprecise, and relies on our and third parties projections, assumptions and estimates within our target market, which are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in this Annual Report. If such third-party or internally generated data proves to be inaccurate or we make errors in our projections, assumptions or estimates based on that data, including how current customer data and trends may apply to potential future customers and the number and type of potential customers, our addressable market opportunity or our future growth rate may be less than we currently estimate. In addition, these inaccuracies or errors may cause us to divert resources from more valuable alternative projects and harm our business. The variables that go into the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, including the amount of customer GTV that we can recognize as revenue, and there is no guarantee that any particular number or percentage of addressable end customers or companies covered by our addressable target market opportunity estimates will purchase our platform at all or generate any particular level of revenue for us. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our platform and those of our competitors. Even if our addressable market meets our size estimates, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all, or we could capture a percentage of customer GTV as revenue that is less than we currently 27 expect. Accordingly, the information regarding the size of our addressable market opportunity included in our Registration Statement on Form S-1, or any of the other documents we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), should not be taken as indicative of our future growth. We may be unsuccessful in making, integrating and maintaining acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments. We have in the past sought, and may in the future seek, to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures and platform technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technology or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We also may enter into strategic relationships with other businesses to expand our platform, which could involve investments in other companies. Any acquisition, investment or strategic transaction, including past acquisitions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, offerings, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their offerings are not easily adapted to work with our platform, their systems and operations are difficult to integrate or we have difficulty retaining their customers. Acquisitions, including integration efforts, may also disrupt our business, require significant resources, divert significant management attention and impose legal and regulatory burdens to the extent such transactions expand our geographic footprint. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Even if announced, we may not complete a transaction. The benefits of an acquisition or strategic transaction, including past acquisitions may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular transaction will produce the intended benefits. Further, acquisitions could result in potential dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of significant cash balances, incurrence of debt (and increased interest expense), contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill and intangible assets. If we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate our acquisitions and strategic transactions, we may not realize the expected benefits of such transactions or become exposed to additional liabilities, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation, our ability to maintain and expand our customer base will be impaired, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We believe that the ServiceTitan brand identity and awareness is critical to our sales and marketing efforts. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the ServiceTitan brand is critical to maintaining and expanding our customer base and, in particular, conveying to customers that our platform offers capabilities that address the needs of the trades across a wide array of verticals. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. In addition, any unfavorable publicity about our company or our management, including about the quality, stability and reliability of our platform, changes to our platform, our privacy, data protection and cybersecurity practices, litigation, employee relations, regulatory enforcement and other actions involving us, as well as the perception of us and our platform by our customers and end customers, even if inaccurate, could cause a loss of confidence in us and adversely affect our brand. Such negative publicity also could have an adverse effect on the size and engagement of our customer base and could result in decreased revenue, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our management team and other highly skilled personnel, and we may fail to attract, retain, motivate or integrate highly skilled personnel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate the members of our management team and other key personnel throughout our organization. In particular, we are highly dependent on the services of Ara Mahdessian, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and Vahe Kuzoyan, our co-founder and President (together, the Co-Founders), each of whom is critical to our ability to achieve our vision and strategic 28 priorities. We rely on our management team in the areas of operations, security, research and development, sales and marketing, support and general and administrative functions. Our employees, including our executive officers, work for us on an at-will basis, which means they may terminate their employment with us at any time. If Mr. Mahdessian or Mr. Kuzoyan or one or more of our key personnel or members of our management team resigns or otherwise ceases to provide us with their services, this could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, cause employee morale problems and the loss of key personnel or members of our management or clients. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and the industry in which we operate is generally characterized by significant competition for skilled personnel as well as high employee attrition. We may not be successful in attracting, retaining, training or motivating qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. Additionally, the former employers of our new employees may attempt to assert that our new employees have breached their legal obligations, which may be time-consuming, distracting to management and may divert our resources. Our culture and brand help us attract and retain highly skilled personnel in a competitive environment. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to employment law-related claims and disputes. Any negative publicity resulting from such claims or disputes could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, harm our brand and otherwise require us to use or divert financial and management resources. Current and potential personnel also often consider the value of equity awards they receive in connection with their employment, and to the extent the perceived value of our equity awards declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may be harmed. If we fail to attract and integrate new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we cannot create and maintain a successful company culture as we grow, our success and our business may be harmed. We believe our current corporate culture fosters innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution and has contributed to our success. As we grow and develop our infrastructure, including as a public company, and expand our operations both geographically and across the trades, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture and/or successfully adapt our corporate culture to appropriately adapt to ongoing changes. Any failure to preserve our culture and/or successfully adapt our culture to changing conditions could harm our future success, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, innovate and operate effectively, and execute on our business strategies. If we experience any of these risks in connection with future growth, it could impair our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers and expand their use of our platform, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Customers and Revenue Model Any failure to offer high quality support for our customers, including throughout the implementation process, may harm our relationships with our customers and, consequently, our business. Our customers depend on our customer experience teams to provide implementation, training and support services. We have previously experienced declines in our net promoter score and if we do not provide effective onboarding services or ongoing support, customers may not receive the full benefits of our platform, may delay or forgo future expansion of their use of our platform or may seek to terminate their agreements with us. Our reputation with prospective or current customers or the trades industry could also be damaged. The number of our customers has grown significantly and due to the complexity of our product, they often heavily rely on our customer success and our customer experience teams, even for routine matters, which has put additional pressure on our customer success teams. If we experience increased customer demand for support, we may face increased costs that may harm our results of operations. As a result, if we are unable to provide efficient, high-quality customer support services, if we need to hire additional support resources, or if there is a market perception that we do not maintain high- quality customer support, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform will depend on our ability to develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Sales of subscriptions to access our platform will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, including adapting to new trades verticals such as commercial services and specialty trades subcontractors. It is difficult to predict customer demand, customer retention, the size and growth rate of the trades industry, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. Our sales efforts involve educating prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our Core and add-on products. We expect that we will continue to need intensive sales efforts to educate prospective customers about the uses and benefits of our platform, and we may have difficulty convincing prospective customers of the value of adopting our platform. Identifying, recruiting and training qualified sales representatives is time-consuming and resource- intensive, and they may not be fully-trained and productive for a significant amount of time following their hiring, if ever. In addition, the cost to acquire customers is high due to these considerable sales and marketing efforts. We also dedicate significant resources to marketing programs, including telemarketing, branded events and digital advertising through services such as Google AdWords. The effectiveness and cost of our online advertising has varied over time, and may vary in the future, due to competition for key search terms, changes in search engine use, changes in the search algorithms used by major search engines and laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy or data protection that affect online advertising. These efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email marketing and direct mail. Our marketing activities, and the marketing activities of our customers, are regulated under laws such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, and any state equivalents, and various other federal and state laws regarding marketing and solicitation, as well as general data protection laws, including the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the CAN-SPAM), and various state privacy laws, including the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA), and other recently passed state laws, that govern these activities and impose significant restrictions on us and our customers. Any violations or perceptions of violations of these laws and regulations may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any changes to the above-mentioned laws, or any applicable privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws, their interpretation, or enforcement of such laws by the government or private parties that further restrict the way we interact with our potential customers or generate leads could adversely affect our ability to attract customers and could harm our business, reputation and brand, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information, see Risks Related to Data Privacy, Data Protection, Cybersecurity and TechnologyThe collection, processing, storage, use, disclosure and other processing of personal information are governed by a rapidly evolving framework of privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, data transfers or other laws or regulations worldwide may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business. Our business will be harmed if our efforts do not generate a correspondingly significant increase in revenue. Even if we are successful in convincing prospective customers of the value of our platform, they may decide not to purchase a subscription for a variety of reasons, some of which are out of our control. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will result in a sale. The failure of our efforts to secure sales after investing resources in a lengthy sales process could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may implement changes to our pricing model. However, there is a possibility that these modifications may not achieve the intended effectiveness, potentially posing challenges in sustaining customer satisfaction, retention and overall revenue generation. Failure to achieve the desired outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our customers are small- and medium-sized businesses, which can be more difficult and costly to retain than large businesses and may increase the impact of economic fluctuations on us. A majority of our customers are small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs), and we expect they will continue to comprise a large portion of our customer base for the foreseeable future. We define SMBs in the context of our customer base as customers that have fewer than 1,000 employees. Selling to and retaining SMBs can be more difficult than retaining large businesses, as SMBs often have higher rates of business failure and more limited resources. SMBs may not have sufficient office resources or may be constrained by other factors, such as seasonality, 30 which makes it difficult for them to dedicate resources to the implementation, onboarding and training necessary to obtain the full benefits of our platform. SMBs are also typically more susceptible to the adverse effects of economic fluctuations. Adverse changes in the economic environment, or business failures of our SMB customers, may have a greater impact on us than on our competitors who do not focus on SMBs to the extent that we do. Risks Related to Reliance on Third Parties We rely on software and services licensed from other third parties. Defects in or the loss of software or services from third parties could increase our costs and adversely affect the quality of our service. We rely upon certain partners, vendors and other service providers to provide software employed by our platform or customers using our platform, including to enable cloud-based phones and GPS, payments, and manage customer payroll, and it is possible that such third-party software or services may not be reliable or easy to replace. We may in the future have disputes with certain of our partners, vendors and other service providers. If, in connection with such a dispute, a partner, vendor or service provider terminates its relationship with us or otherwise limits the provision of their software, services or data to us, the availability or usage of our platform could be disrupted. If the partners, vendors and other service providers we rely upon cease to provide access to the software, services or data that we and our customers and consumers use, whether in connection with disputes or otherwise, do not provide access to such software and/or data on terms that we believe to be attractive or reasonable, or do not provide us with the most current version of such software, we may be required to seek comparable software and/or data from other sources, which may be more expensive or inferior, or may not be available at all, or may disrupt our services to our customers, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our customers experience and satisfaction depend upon the interoperability of our platform across devices, operating systems and third-party applications that we do not control. An important feature of our platform is its broad interoperability with a range of devices, web browsers, operating systems and third-party applications. We have integrations with a variety of vendors. As part of our integrations with certain vendors, we have had to make concessions limiting our ability to engage with such vendors competitors, which could potentially impact our customer experience and our ability to interoperate with other third-party applications. Our Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), enable customers to connect other third-party software, applications, partner services and data to our platform. Accordingly, we are dependent on the accessibility of our platform across web browsers, operating systems and the third-party applications that we often do not control. Third-party applications, products and services are constantly evolving, and we may not be able to maintain or modify our platform to ensure its compatibility with third-party offerings following development changes. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to disrupt the operations or compatibility of our platform with their applications that some of our customers may rely upon. If our platform has integration or operability failures with these operating systems or third-party applications, customers may not adopt our platform or our APIs and related functionality may not be useful to customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, or results of operations. Additionally, as our platform evolves, we expect the types and levels of competition we face to increase. Should any of our competitors or third-party services on our platform modify their technologies, standards or terms of use in a manner that degrades the functionality or performance of our platform or is otherwise unsatisfactory to us or gives preferential treatment to our competitors products or services, our platform, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party data centers, such as Azure, to host and operate our platform, and any disruption of or interference with our use of these facilities may negatively affect our ability to maintain the performance and reliability of our platform, which could cause our business to suffer. Our customers depend on the continuous availability of our platform. We currently host our platform and serve our customers primarily using Microsoft Azure (Azure). Consequently, we may be subject to service disruptions, as well as failures to provide adequate support, for reasons that are outside of our control, including: the performance and availability of Azure and other third-party providers of cloud infrastructure services with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable services; 31 decisions by Azure and other owners and operators of the data centers where our cloud infrastructure is deployed to terminate our subscriptions, discontinue services to us, shut down operations or facilities, increase prices, change service levels, limit bandwidth, declare bankruptcy or prioritize the traffic of other parties; physical break-ins, acts of war or terrorism, human error or interference, including by disgruntled employees, former employees or customers and other catastrophic events; and cyberattacks, including denial of service attacks, targeted at us, our data centers or the infrastructure of the Internet. The adverse effects of any service interruptions on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition may be disproportionately heightened due to the nature of our business and the fact that our customers have a low tolerance for interruptions of any duration. To meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue to make significant investments to increase capacity and to develop and implement new technologies in our cloud infrastructure operations. Any renegotiation or renewal of our agreement with Azure, or a new agreement with another provider of cloud-based services, may be on terms that are significantly less favorable to us than our current agreement. Additionally, these new technologies, which include databases, application and server optimizations, network strategies and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested, and we may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. It takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and cloud infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our infrastructure to meet the needs of our growing customer base and maintain performance as our customers expand their use of our platform, or if our cloud-based server costs were to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We rely primarily on third-party insurance policies to insure our operations-related risks. If our insurance coverage is insufficient for the needs of our business or our insurance providers are unable to meet their obligations, we may not be able to mitigate the risks facing our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We procure third-party insurance policies to cover various operations-related risks including employment practices liability, workers compensation, business interruptions, cybersecurity and data breaches, crime, directors and officers liability, occupational accident liability for customers and general business liabilities. For certain types of operations-related risks or future risks related to our new and evolving services, we may not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire insurance. In addition, we may not obtain enough insurance to adequately mitigate such operations-related risks or risks related to our new and evolving services, and we may have to pay high premiums, self-insured retentions or deductibles for the coverage we do obtain. Additionally, if any of our insurance providers becomes insolvent, they would be unable to pay any operations-related claims that we make. Further, some of our agreements with vendors require that we procure certain types of insurance, and if we are unable to obtain and maintain such insurance, we would be in violation of the terms of these vendor agreements. If the amount of one or more operations-related claims were to exceed our applicable aggregate coverage limits, we would bear the excess, in addition to amounts already incurred in connection with deductibles. Insurance providers have raised premiums and deductibles for many businesses and may do so in the future. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we may decide to raise our deductibles when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if (i) the cost per claim, premiums or the number of claims significantly exceeds our historical experience and coverage limits, (ii) we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, (iii) our insurance providers fail to pay on our insurance claims, (iv) we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided or (v) the number of claims under our deductibles differs from historical averages. 32 We are subject to payment processing risk. We rely on third-party payment processors to collect subscription fees and other usage-based revenue from our customers. Under our commercial agreements, such payment processors may terminate the relationship with advanced notice. If one of our payment processors terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be required to find alternative payment processors and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such payment processors in an acceptable time frame. An inability to charge our customers or collect revenue for an extended period could affect our cash flows and impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we do not process any payments for our customers' end customers, we do have complex relationships with third-party processors where we generate revenue through referral agreements and as an independent sales organization (ISO) through our FinTech offerings to customers. A significant portion of payments by the end customers are made by credit card or debit card using these third-party payment services to which our customers have a direct contractual relationship. If one of these third- party processors terminates its relationship with us or refuses to renew its partnership with us on commercially reasonable terms, or the software and services provided by our payment processors does not meet our customers expectations, we may be required to find an alternative payment processor or consider offering new payment options and products ourselves that may be subject to additional regulations and risks. None of our agreements with payment processors are exclusive, however, our agreements with certain payment processors limit our ability to induce existing customers to migrate to alternative payment processors, which could potentially impact our customers experience or satisfaction with our services. We are also subject to a number of other laws and regulations relating to the financial solutions we offer, including with respect to money laundering, privacy and cybersecurity. If we fail to, or are alleged to fail to, comply with applicable regulations, we may be subject to claims and litigation, regulatory investigations and proceedings, civil or criminal penalties, fines or higher transaction fees and may lose the ability to offer financial solutions to customers, which could make our platform less convenient and attractive to trades businesses. We also rely on data provided by third parties for financial statement reporting, and there could be inaccuracies and other errors in such data. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The PCI DSS is a specific set of comprehensive security standards required by credit card brands for enhancing payment account data security, including, but not limited to, requirements for security management, policies, procedures, network architecture and software design, certification requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Our third-party payment processors require us to comply with payment card network operating rules, which are set and interpreted by the payment card networks. The payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules in ways that might prohibit us from providing certain services to some customers, be costly to implement, or difficult to follow. If we fail to comply with these rules or regulations, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to offer payment solutions to customers. Compliance does not guarantee a completely secure environment and notwithstanding the results of a compliance assessment there can be no assurance that payment card brands will not request further compliance assessments or set forth additional requirements to maintain access to credit card processing services. Compliance is an ongoing effort and the requirements evolve as new threats are identified. In the event that we were to lose PCI DSS compliance status (or fail to renew compliance under a future version of the PCI DSS), or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card-issuing banks costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments. We have also agreed to indemnify our third-party payment processors for violating payment card networks rules. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Risks Related to Data Privacy, Data Protection, Cybersecurity and Technology If we or our third-party service providers experience a cybersecurity breach or other incident, including any breach or incident that allows, or is perceived to allow, unauthorized access to our platform or our Sensitive Information, our reputation and brand, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on our own, and our third-party service providers, platforms, computer systems, hardware, software, technology infrastructure and online sites and networks for both internal and external operations that are critical to our business (collectively, IT Systems). We own and manage some of these IT Systems but also rely on third parties for a range of IT Systems and related products and services, including but not limited to cloud computing services. Because we make extensive use of third-party suppliers and service providers, such as cloud services that support our internal and customer-facing operations, disruptions to or unauthorized access to third-party IT Systems can materially impact our operations and financial results. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to run our business could be adversely affected. It is also possible that our competitors could develop better platforms than ours, which could adversely affect obtaining and retaining our customers. Any of these or other systems related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our business, reputation and brand, results of operations and financial condition. We may rely on third parties when deploying, servicing or otherwise operating our IT Systems, and in doing so, expose them and therefore us to security risks outside of our direct control. Specifically, certain third parties who create applications that integrate with our platform may receive, store or otherwise process our and our customers information, including confidential, sensitive, personal information and other information about individuals, our customers, employees, contractors and business partners, including email addresses, physical addresses, phone numbers, Social Security numbers, credit card data and personally identifiable information, as well as trade secrets and other proprietary business information (collectively, Sensitive Information). Our third- party service providers may fail to adequately secure their or our IT Systems or our Sensitive Information. Our third-party service providers IT Systems have been, and may in the future be, breached or contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our or our third-party service providers IT Systems and other cybersecurity risks discussed below. Our ability to monitor our service providers security is limited, and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures. Moreover, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems and networks, as discussed in more detail below, change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. These risks also are heightened when service providers work remotely. The use of our platform involves the transmission, storage and processing of Sensitive Information. The secure processing, maintenance, transmission and storage of our Sensitive Information is critical to us, and we devote significant resources to protecting this information. Additionally, remote working arrangements at our company, and many of our third-party providers, increases cybersecurity risks due to the challenges associated with managing remote computing assets and security vulnerabilities that are present in many non-corporate and home networks. The unprecedented scale of remote work may require additional personnel and resources, which nevertheless cannot be guaranteed to fully safeguard all IT Systems and information upon which we rely. We face numerous and evolving cybersecurity risks that threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our IT Systems and Sensitive Information, including from diverse threat actors, such as state-sponsored organizations, opportunistic hackers and hacktivists, as well as through diverse attack vectors, such as social engineering/phishing (including on our customers and end customers), malware (including ransomware attacks), malfeasance by insiders, human or technological error, or other techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade services or sabotage systems, and as a result of malicious code embedded in open-source software, or misconfigurations, bugs or other vulnerabilities in commercial software that is integrated into our (or our suppliers or service providers) IT systems, products or services. Cyberattacks are expected to accelerate on a global basis in frequency and magnitude as threat actors are becoming increasingly sophisticated in using techniques and toolsincluding AIthat circumvent security controls, evade detection and remove forensic evidence. As a result, we may be unable to detect, investigate, remediate or recover from future attacks or cybersecurity breaches or other incidents, or to avoid a material adverse impact to our IT Systems, Sensitive Information or business. In this fast-changing threat environment, our efforts may not be sufficient to identify all gaps, threats and vulnerabilities or prevent a cybersecurity breach or other incident. If we or our third-party service providers fail to respond appropriately to any identified gaps, 34 threats or vulnerabilities, including by providing adequate funding and prioritizing strategic initiatives, or if we or our third-party service providers fail to adequately identify the gaps, threats or vulnerabilities, we face greater risk of a security incident. Notwithstanding our efforts, we and our third-party service providers have failed to and may in the future fail to detect cybersecurity breaches or other incidents, including breaches or incidents that may compromise our Confidential Information, and may face difficulties or delays in identifying any such breaches or incidents. Such breaches or incidents have resulted in and may in the future result in theft, loss, damage, or unavailability of, or unauthorized access to or use, disclosure, modification or other processing of, Sensitive Information, loss of access to data or systems or cause other business delays or disruptions. Third parties may attempt to compromise our employees and their access into internal IT Systems to gain access to accounts, our Sensitive Information or our IT Systems. Employee error, malfeasance or other errors could result in an actual or perceived cybersecurity breach or other incident. This risk may be heightened as we transition to an increasingly distributed workforce. In addition, our employees, customers or end customers may also be subject to cyberattacks (including social engineering/phishing) or otherwise disclose or lose control of their passwords, or use the same or similar passwords on third parties systems, which could lead to unauthorized access to their accounts on our platform. Any unauthorized or inadvertent access to, or an actual or perceived cybersecurity breach or other incident impacting, our IT Systems or those of our third-party service providers, could result in an actual or perceived loss or unavailability of, unauthorized access to, or unauthorized use, disclosure, modification or other processing of, our Sensitive Information, regulatory investigations and other proceedings, orders and other obligations, claims, demands and litigation, indemnity obligations, damages, penalties, fines and other costs in connection with actual and alleged contractual breaches, violations of applicable laws and regulations and other liabilities and our platform may be perceived as insecure and we may lose existing customers or fail to attract and retain new customers. We also could be required to divert substantial resources to prevent further cybersecurity breaches or other incidents. We have experienced such incidents in the past and may experience similar incidents in the future. While to date no incidents have had a material impact on our operations or financial results, we cannot guarantee that material incidents will not occur in the future. Any such breach or other incident affecting us, our third-party service providers, customers or end customers, or the perception that one has occurred, could also materially damage our reputation and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our revenue, causing us to issue credits to customers, negatively impacting our ability to accept and process customer payment information, eroding our customers trust in our services and solutions, subjecting us to costly notifications to customers and individuals and costly remediation measures, resulting in loss of, and harming our ability to retain customers, harming our brand or increasing our cost of acquiring new customers, or subject us to claims by third parties that we have breached our privacy-, data protection-, cybersecurity- or confidentiality-related obligations that could materially increase our costs, adversely impact how we operate our IT Systems and collect and use customer information and competitively disadvantage our business. In addition, many governments, including all fifty states in the United States, have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of certain breaches involving Sensitive Information. These mandatory disclosures regarding such a breach are costly to implement and often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. The release of Sensitive Information may also lead to identity theft and related fraud, litigation, investigations, claims or other proceedings against us by affected individuals, customers and/or by regulators, or public statements against us by advocacy groups or others, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur large expenditures to investigate or remediate, to recover information, to repair or replace networks or IT Systems, to protect against similar future events or to comply with existing and future cybersecurity, data protection and privacy laws and regulations. In addition, the costs of maintaining adequate protection and insurance coverage against such threats, as they develop in the future (or as legal requirements related to cybersecurity increase) could be material. We maintain technology errors, omissions and cyber liability insurance policies covering certain damages. However, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred relating to any breach or incident relating to privacy, data protection or cybersecurity, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, if another company within our industry experiences a high-profile breach or incident this might lead to a loss of trust in our industry generally, which could adversely impact our reputation and brand, and adversely harm our business and financial condition. 35 Real or perceived defects, errors, or vulnerabilities in our platform could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The software underlying our platform is highly complex and may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code has been released. Our practice is to effect frequent releases of software updates, sometimes multiple times per day. The third-party software that we incorporate into our platform may also be subject to errors or vulnerabilities. Any errors or vulnerabilities discovered in our code or from third-party software after release could result in negative publicity, a loss of customers or loss of revenue and access or other performance issues. Such vulnerabilities could also be exploited by malicious actors and result in exposure of information of customers on our platform, or otherwise result in a cybersecurity breach or other incident. If we or our third-party service providers experience a cybersecurity breach or security incident, including any breach or incident that allows, or is perceived to allow, unauthorized access to our platform or our customers information, our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may need to expend significant financial and development resources to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities. Any failure to timely and effectively resolve any such errors, defects or vulnerabilities could adversely affect our business, reputation, brand, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in the Internet and mobile device accessibility of customers. Our business depends on our customers access to our platform via a mobile device or personal computer and the Internet. Mobile operating systems, such as Android and iOS, and their respective application marketplaces that make our mobile applications available, are especially important in the context of our solution, as we address the needs of technicians in the field across trades businesses. Any changes in such systems and application marketplaces that degrade the functionality of our mobile applications or give preferential treatment to our competitors mobile applications could adversely affect our platforms usage on mobile devices. If such mobile operating systems or application marketplaces limit or prohibit us from making our mobile applications available to our customers or their end customers, make changes that degrade the functionality of our mobile applications, increase the cost of using our mobile applications, impose terms of use unsatisfactory to us or modify their search or ratings algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors placement in such mobile operating systems application marketplace is more prominent than the placement of our apps, our platform could be adversely impacted. Further, as new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, there is no guarantee that certain mobile devices will continue to support our platform or effectively roll out updates to our mobile applications. In addition, we may operate in jurisdictions that provide limited Internet connectivity. Internet access and access to a mobile device or personal computer are frequently provided by companies with significant market power that could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of customers ability to access our platform. Frequent or persistent interruptions could cause existing or prospective customers to believe that our platform is unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors, which could materially adversely affect our reputation and brand, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the Internet infrastructure that we and trades businesses rely on in any particular geographic area may be unable to support the demands placed upon it and could interfere with the speed and availability of our platform. Any such failure in Internet or mobile device or computer accessibility, even for a short period of time, could adversely affect our results of operations. The collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information are governed by a rapidly evolving framework of privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, data transfers or other laws or regulations worldwide and limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business. We receive, store, process and use a large volume of personal information and other customer information from a wide range of sources, including customers, potential customers, vendors and employees. There are numerous federal, state, local and international laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, marketing and telemarketing activities and the storing, sharing, use, processing, transfer, disclosure and protection of personal information and other information, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions, or conflict with other rules or other actual or asserted obligations. We also post privacy policies, which we are legally obligated to comply with and are subject to contractual obligations to third parties related to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity. As a result, we are subject to federal, state, local and 36 international laws regarding data protection, privacy, cybersecurity, and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information. The regulatory framework for data protection, privacy and cybersecurity worldwide is, and is likely to remain, uncertain for the foreseeable future, and it is possible that these or other actual or alleged obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or obligations or our practices. Regulation of data protection, privacy and cybersecurity in the United States has increased, particularly at the state level. Several states in which we operate or may in the future operate have begun enacting new data privacy laws. For example, Californias Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (collectively, the CCPA), introduced new rights for California residents and obligations for covered businesses collecting, using, disclosing and processing personal information. The enactment of the CCPA has prompted a wave of similar legislative development in numerous U.S. states. For example, since the CCPA went into effect, general data privacy statutes that share similarities with the CCPA are now in effect and enforceable in Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut, Utah, Texas, Montana, Oregon, Delaware, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nebraska, and New Jersey and will soon be enforceable in several other states as well. These new laws, and others that will be effective in the coming years could further complicate compliance efforts and increase legal risk and compliance costs for us, the third parties upon whom we rely, and our customers. In addition, the development of numerous U.S. state laws creates the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state law requirements. For example, in order to comply with the varying state laws around breaches involving information, we must maintain adequate security measures, which require significant investments in resources and ongoing attention. Additionally, certain of our products record or transcribe phone and other conversations on behalf of our customers for coaching and other quality assurance purposes, and we also may record phone calls with our customers. With respect to the use of personal information for direct marketing purposesboth via telephone calls and email and text-based messaginglaws, regulations, and standards covering marketing, advertising, and other activities conducted by telephone, email, mobile devices, and the internet may be or become applicable to our business, such as the Federal Communications Act, the Federal Wiretap Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the CAN-SPAM, and use of personal information in relation to other state consumer protection and communication privacy laws, such as Californias Invasion of Privacy Act. In particular, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Telemarketing Sales Rule as interpreted and implemented by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and U.S. courts (collectively, the TCPA), impose significant restrictions on the use of telephone calls and text messages to residential and mobile telephone numbers as a means of communication when prior consent of the person being contacted has not been obtained. Additionally, the CAN-SPAM establishes specific requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content, and obligates, among other things, the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future commercial emails from the sender. In addition, there is a risk if our customers or end customers use our platform in a manner that does not comply with applicable law or our policies. For additional information, see Risks Related to Data Privacy, Data Protection, Cybersecurity and TechnologyOur customers and end customers violation of our policies or other misuse of our platform to transmit unauthorized, offensive or illegal messages, spam, phishing scams and website links to harmful applications or for other fraudulent or illegal activity could damage our reputation and brand, and we may face a risk of litigation and liability for illegal activities on our platform and unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our platform. Our and our customers activities must comply with the above-mentioned laws. In addition, data protection, privacy and cybersecurity laws outside the United States, including in the European Union, United Kingdom, or Australia, may impose obligations on us, directly or by contract. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation imposes various requirements regarding the processing of personal information, including requirements regarding transparency, lawfulness of processing, privacy rights, compliant contracting, data minimization, data breach notification, data re-usage, data retention, security of processing and international data transfers. A number of legislative proposals in the European Union have imposed, and could continue to impose, new obligations in areas affecting our business, including the Artificial Intelligence Act and the Data Act. Some countries are considering passing, or have passed, legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of information, or similar requirements, that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services, and new countries and territories are adopting such legislation or other obligations with increasing frequency. With various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations imposing new and relatively burdensome 37 obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these laws and regulations, including the potential for various regulatory or other governmental bodies to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issue rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations or to increase penalties significantly, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies, practices and commercial agreements, and may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so, which could result in potential liability and adversely affect our business. These federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, which, as mentioned, in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are increasingly restricting the collection, processing and use of personal information. We continue to monitor changes and laws and regulations, and compliance with current and future customer privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations could result in higher compliance, technical or operating costs. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, our privacy policies, our obligations to customers or other third parties, or any of our other actual or asserted obligations relating to privacy, data protection or cybersecurity may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation (including individual or class action lawsuits), claims or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and could result in significant monetary liability, fines, penalties, loss of customers, reputational harm and loss of goodwill, or cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and brand and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the adoption and use of, and reduce the overall demand for, our services. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors or service providers, violate applicable laws or regulations or our policies, such violations may also put our customers information or other information maintained or otherwise processed in our business at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. Any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure or other processing of our customers information, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of customers for the collection, use, retention, disclosure or other processing of such information is obtained, could increase our costs and require us to modify our products and services, possibly in a material manner, which we may be unable to complete, and may limit our ability to store and process customer information or other information or develop new products and services. 38 Our customers and end customers violation of our policies or other misuse of our platform to transmit unauthorized, offensive or illegal messages, spam, phishing scams and website links to harmful applications, record calls without consent or for other fraudulent or illegal activity could damage our reputation and brand, and we may face a risk of litigation and liability for illegal activities on our platform and unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via our platform. Our customers and end customers may use our platform to make telephone calls and send short message services (SMS), text messages to our customers. In particular, the TCPA imposes significant restrictions on the use of telephone calls and text messages to residential and mobile telephone numbers as a means of communication when prior consent of the person being contacted has not been obtained. In addition, our customers may be required to comply with registration requirements to use SMS text messages, such as A2P 10DLC registration. Our customers use of our platform for marketing activities must comply with the above-mentioned laws and other requirements. Despite our ongoing and substantial efforts to limit such use, certain customers or end customers may use our platform to transmit unauthorized, offensive or illegal messages, calls, spam, phishing scams and website links to harmful applications, reproduce and distribute copyrighted material or the trademarks of others without permission, launder money, traffic drugs, fraudulently sell goods or services, use credit or debit cards in an unauthorized manner, record conversations without proper notice or consent, and report inaccurate or fraudulent data or information. While these actions are in violation of our policies, our efforts to defeat spamming attacks, illegal robocalls and other fraudulent activity will not prevent all such attacks and activity. Additionally, if the measures we have taken are too restrictive and inadvertently screen proper transactions, this could diminish our customer experience. Violations of the TCPA may be enforced by the FCC or by individuals through litigation, including through costly class actions, of which numerous suits under federal and state laws have been filed in recent years against companies who conduct telemarketing and/or SMS texting programs, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements to the plaintiffs. In addition to costly and time-consuming litigation, statutory penalties for TCPA violations range from $500 to $1,500 per violation, which has been interpreted to mean per phone call and/or text message sent and therefore the fines and settlement amounts can be very significant. Due to the evolving interpretation of the TCPAs restrictions, and the highly litigated nature of the TCPA, our and our customers business and results of operations may be adversely affected by regulators, including the FCC, or the courts interpreting the TCPA restrictions differently than we do, by actual or perceived violations of the TCPA, as well as by lawsuits or other claims against us and our customers relating to violations of the TCPA. The outcome of such proceedings may not be favorable, and one or more unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Additionally, any changes to the TCPA, its interpretation, or enforcement of it by the government or private parties that further restrict the way we or our customers contact and communicate with potential customers or generate leads could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we also send marketing messages via email and are subject to the CAN-SPAM, which establishes specific requirements for commercial email messages and outlines penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content, and obligates, among other things, the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future commercial emails from the sender. As laws and regulations, including FTC and FCC enforcement thereof, rapidly evolve to govern the use of these communications and marketing platforms, the failure by us or our customers, or our employees or third parties acting at our direction, to abide by applicable laws and regulations could adversely impact our business, reputation and brand, financial condition and results of operations or subject us to fines or other penalties. Such illegal use of our platform could damage our reputation and brand and we could face claims for damages, regulatory enforcement, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers and end customers promotion of their products and services through our platform might not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We rely on contractual representations made to us by our customers that their use of our platform will comply with our policies and applicable law. Although we retain the right to verify that customers and end customers are abiding by our policies, our customers and end customers are ultimately responsible for compliance with our policies, and we do not systematically audit our customers or end customers to confirm compliance with our policies. Although Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act currently limits liability for third-party content posted on internet platforms, we cannot predict whether that protection will remain in effect. We also may record phone calls or other conversations on behalf of our customers for coaching or other quality assurance purposes, and our customers may also record phone calls that are placed through our platform. The actual or perceived improper calling of customer phones or recording of customer calls or other conversations may subject 39 us to potential risks, including claims, demands and litigation, regulatory demands, investigations and other proceedings, and fines, penalties, monetary and other settlements, and other liabilities relating to laws, regulations or other actual or asserted obligations, including consumer protection laws and regulations or certain laws and regulations that require consent, including the consent of all parties in certain states, for recording. Any future such litigation or other proceedings against us, regardless of whether or not they have merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and may distract management and technical personnel. Among other potential claims, federal or state regulatory authorities or private groups or individuals may claim that our notices, disclosures, form or manner of obtaining consent or our policies or practices relating to these matters are not adequate or violate applicable law or other actual or asserted obligations, such as industry standards. For example, there has been a rise in lawsuits alleging violations of wiretap laws, particularly in California. Successful lawsuits alleging violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act can result in statutory penalties of $5,000 per violation. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property and our data, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright and patent law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. However, effective trademark, trade secret, copyright and patent protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing applicable registration requirements and expenses and the costs of maintaining, defending and enforcing our registered intellectual property rights. We make business decisions about when to seek patent protection for a particular technology feature of ours and when to rely upon copyright or trade secret protection, and the approach we select may ultimately prove to be inadequate. Even when we seek patent protection, there is no assurance that the resulting patents will effectively protect every significant feature of our platform or other proprietary technology. Given the costs and expenses of obtaining, maintaining, protecting, exploiting, defending and enforcing our registered intellectual property rights, we may choose not to obtain, maintain, protect, exploit, defend or enforce certain intellectual property rights that later turn out to be important. Further, we may not timely or successfully apply for a patent or register our trademarks or otherwise secure our intellectual property. Our efforts to protect, maintain or enforce our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property, proprietary technology and confidential information by requiring our employees and consultants who contribute to the development of intellectual property on our behalf to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, and our vendors, customers, business partners and other third parties we share information with to enter into nondisclosure agreements. These agreements may not effectively assign all intellectual property rights to us or prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, trade secrets, intellectual property or proprietary technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our confidential information, trade secrets or proprietary technology, or infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property. Additionally, any such agreement with respect to the assignment of intellectual property rights may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our platform or other software, technology and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. In addition, unauthorized parties may also attempt, or successfully endeavor, to obtain our proprietary technology, confidential information and trade secrets through various methods, including through cybersecurity attacks, reverse engineering and legal or other methods of protecting this data may be inadequate. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to others infringing our intellectual property rights. Competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, service names similar to ours, thereby harming our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to end-customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other trademarks that are similar to our trademarks. We believe that the protection of our trademark rights is an important factor in product recognition, protecting our brand and maintaining goodwill and if we do not adequately protect our rights in our trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that we have developed in those trademarks could be lost or impaired, which could harm our brand and our business. Additionally, litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities 40 and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property infringement or misappropriation assertions by third parties could result in significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. We operate in an industry with frequent intellectual property litigation. Other parties have in the past asserted, and may assert in the future, that we have infringed or misappropriated their intellectual property rights. We could be required to pay substantial damages or cease using intellectual property or technology that is deemed infringing or misappropriating. In addition, despite our efforts to ensure that our employees, consultants, vendors and service providers do not use the intellectual property and other proprietary information or know-how of third parties in their work for us, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants, vendors or service providers have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including copyrighted materials, trade secrets, software code or other proprietary information of a former employer or other third parties. Further, we cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions would substantially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The defense of these claims and any future infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, may result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. In addition, we may be unable to meet our obligations to customers under our customer contracts or to compete effectively, and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We might also be obligated to indemnify our customers or other companies in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our platform or refund fees, which could harm our financial results. Further, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a partys patent or copyright rights, cease making, licensing or using products that are alleged to incorporate or infringe the intellectual property of others, expend additional development resources to redesign our offerings, and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms favorable to us, or at all. In any event, we may need to license intellectual property from third parties which may require us to pay royalties or make one-time payments. Even if these matters do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, the time and resources necessary to resolve them could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Our platform, including our purpose-built AI solutions such as Titan Intelligence, contains third-party open-source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open-source software licenses could compromise the proprietary nature of our platform or could require disclosure of affected proprietary software source code. Our platform, including our purpose-built AI solutions such as TitanIntelligence, contains software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open-source licenses. Use and distribution of open-source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open-source licensors generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the software. In addition, open-source projects may have security and other vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities or may be otherwise subject to security attacks due to their wide availability, and are provided on an as-is basis. Many of the risks associated with the use of open-source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title or performance, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain copyleft open-source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software under the terms of such an open-source software license, which could require us to offer our source code at little or no cost or grant other rights to our intellectual property. This could enable our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort, resources and time and ultimately could result in a loss of our competitive advantages. Alternatively, to avoid the release of the affected portions of our source code, we could be required to purchase 41 additional licenses, expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software or cease use or distribution of some or all of our software until we can adequately address the concerns. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open-source software in our products will be effective. Although we have certain procedures in place to monitor our use of open-source software that are designed to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open-source license, such use could inadvertently occur, or could be claimed to have occurred, in part because open-source license terms are often ambiguous. In addition, the terms of many open-source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our platform. From time to time, there have been claims against companies that incorporate open-source software into their solutions, challenging such companies rights to use the open-source software against companies that incorporate open-source software into their solutions. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open-source software and alleging that we do not have the rights to use, incorporate, distribute, or modify such software. Additionally, if we are held to have breached or failed to fully comply with all the terms and conditions of an open-source software license, we could face infringement or other liability, or be required to seek costly licenses from third parties to continue providing our platform on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our platform, to discontinue or delay the provision of our platform if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Environment We may become involved in claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings that may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have been, and may in the future become, involved in various investigations or legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including intellectual property, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower, wiretapping and other litigation and claims and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. For example, plaintiffs have sought to apply federal wiretap laws, such as the Federal Wiretap Act, and similar U.S. state laws, such as Californias Invasion of Privacy Act, to certain advertising online tracking, and voice recording practices. We have received one or more claims of violation of Californias Invasion or Privacy Act, though none resulting in significant liability or expense. Such laws include private causes of action, and could result in significant monetary liability to address, including settlement costs, even if these causes of action are meritless. The number and significance of these potential claims and disputes may increase as our business expands. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources, cause us to incur significant expenses or liability or require us to change our business practices. In addition, the expense of litigation and the timing of this expense from period to period are difficult to estimate, subject to change and may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the potential risks, expenses and uncertainties of litigation, we may, from time to time, settle disputes, even where we have meritorious claims or defenses, by agreeing to settlement agreements. Any of the foregoing may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a number of laws and regulations that apply generally to businesses, including laws and regulations governing the internet and the marketing, sale and delivery of services over the internet. These laws and regulations, which continue to evolve, cover, among other things, taxation, tariffs, privacy and data protection, cybersecurity, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile and telecommunications, advertising practices, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, consumer and business financial products, insurance products, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, payroll compliance, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of products that are offered online. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will in the future be fully compliant with such laws and regulations in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear in every jurisdiction how existing laws and regulations governing such 42 areas apply or will be enforced. Moreover, as the regulatory landscape continues to evolve, increasing regulation and enforcement efforts by federal, state and foreign authorities, and the prospects for private litigation claims, become more likely. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or the imposition of other legal requirements, that adversely affect our ability to market or sell our platform could harm our ability to offer, or negatively affect contractor demand for, our platform, which could impact our revenue, impair our ability to expand our platform and service offerings, and make us more vulnerable to competition. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also require us to change our business practices and raise compliance costs or other costs of doing business. Additionally, various federal, state and foreign labor laws govern our relationships with our employees and affect operating costs. These laws include employee classifications as exempt or non-exempt, minimum wage requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers compensation rates, overtime, family leave, workplace health and safety standards, payroll taxes, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. The number and type of laws applicable to us and our workforce will grow as our remote workforce increases. Significant additional laws or regulations, or our failure to comply with any laws and regulations that now, or could in the future, apply to our business could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, changes in regulations could negatively impact the business environment for the trades industry. Laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future. In particular, our customers are subject to a wide range of laws and regulations related to payroll, employment, data protection, privacy and marketing, and our business could be adversely affected should our solutions and platform not be able to keep pace with such regulatory changes. The expansion of our operations outside the United States, which subjects us to additional costs and risks, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we currently operate primarily in the United States and Canada, a significant portion of our workforce is comprised of engineering contractors distributed internationally, including, but not limited to, persons in Armenia, Macedonia, and Poland, and our international contract workforce has grown as a result of our acquisitions of ServicePro and FieldRoutes. We may expand our international operations, which may include opening offices in new jurisdictions and providing our platform in additional countries. If our access to this workforce is disrupted, our business may be adversely affected and we may not be able to grow effectively. Geopolitical events and local government and other actions, including armed conflicts, or sanctions imposed by the United States on countries in which members of our workforce reside, may reduce the availability of or disrupt communication with these workforces, or delay projects under development by the distributed teams. Our continued ability to grow and compete effectively depends on these workforces, so their limited availability or unavailability would impact our performance. Any new markets or countries into which we attempt to sell subscriptions to access our platform may not be receptive to our efforts. For example, we may not be able to expand further in some markets if we are not able to adapt our platform to fit the needs of prospective customers in those markets or if we are unable to satisfy certain country- and industry-specific laws or regulations. In addition, future international expansion will also require considerable management attention and the investment of significant resources while subjecting us to new risks and increasing certain risks that we already face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the United States, including employees who speak multiple languages and come from a wide variety of different cultural backgrounds and customs; maintaining our company culture across all of our global offices; providing our platform in different languages; 43 compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to employment, construction, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, consumer protection and unsolicited email, and the risk of penalties and fines against us and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; managing an employee base in jurisdictions with differing employment regulations; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States and navigating the practical enforcement of such intellectual property rights outside of the United States; the risk of changes in foreign laws that could restrict our ability to use our intellectual property outside of the foreign jurisdiction in which we developed it; compliance by us and our partners with anti-corruption laws, competition laws, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory limitations on our ability to provide our platform in certain international markets; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; political and economic instability; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including the imposition of new trade restrictions, trade protection measures, import or export requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers; generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the income and other tax laws of the United States or the international jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our global operations substantially increases our cost of doing business. We may be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations as they occur. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to support compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will always maintain compliance or that all of our employees, contractors, partners and agents will comply. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions or reputational harm. If we are unable to comply with these laws and regulations or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, we may need to relocate or cease operations in certain foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to governmental export and import controls and economic sanctions programs that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate these controls. Certain of our products may be subject to various restrictions under U.S. and foreign export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The export of or provision of our platform must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we take precautions to prevent our products and technology from being provided in violation of such laws, our products and technology could in the future be provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. 44 If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges, fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers, and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular deployment may be time consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. In addition, changes in our platform, or changes in applicable export or economic sanctions regulations may create delays in the introduction and deployment of our platform in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent the export or provision of our platform to certain countries or end customers. A change in export or economic sanctions regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could also result in decreased use of our platform, or in our decreased ability to export or provide our platform to existing or prospective customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or provide our platform may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export and provision of our platform, including with respect to new releases of our platform, may create delays in the introduction of our platform in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying and using our platform throughout their globally distributed systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or provision of our platform to some countries altogether. Russian military action against Ukraine has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations and the productivity of our employees. We have a significant number of personnel, including both employees and contractors, in Armenia as well as Poland and other European countries, and we had engineering contractors in Russia prior to U.S. sanctions against Russia. In late February 2022, Russian military forces launched significant military action against Ukraine, which could cause sustained conflict and disruption in nearby countries like Armenia, Macedonia, and Poland. As a result of the situation in Ukraine, new and stricter sanctions have been imposed by the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union and other countries and organizations against officials, individuals, regions and industries in Russia. Soon after the Russian military action began, in response to U.S. sanctions, we restricted our Russian engineering contractors access to our software and arranged to move approximately 50 contractors out of Russia for the purpose of continuing to perform engineering services for us. Prolonged unrest, intensified military activities or the implementation of more extensive sanctions impacting the region could also adversely affect our operations and the productivity of our employees in Armenia, Macedonia, and Poland and other European countries. In addition, negative global and regional economic conditions, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, inflation, rising interest rates, and bank failures, international trade relations, geopolitical instability and uncertainty, such as the war in Ukraine and resulting heightened risk of cyberattacks, intellectual property theft, and a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macroeconomic conditions could have adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our subscriptions, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced sales and slower or declining growth. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and anti-money laundering laws and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines and harm our business and reputation. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA), the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, U.S. anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws in countries where we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies, their employees, agents, representatives, business partners and third-party intermediaries from promising, authorizing, making, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector, including anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining 45 business, or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. Anti-money laundering laws generally prohibit persons from engaging in transactions where the proceeds at issue derive from, or are intended to facilitate or conceal, illegal activity, or where a party to the transaction is willfully blind to the illegal sources of the proceeds. If and when we increase our international sales and operations, our risks under these laws may increase. In addition, we use third parties to sell access to our platform and conduct business on our behalf abroad. We, our employees, agents, representatives, business partners and third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities, and we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We cannot assure you that all of our employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries will not take actions in violation of applicable law for which we may be ultimately held responsible. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. We cannot assure you that none of our employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries will take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any allegations or violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws, anti-money laundering laws or other laws could result in whistleblower complaints, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions and suspension or debarment from government contracts. Responding to any investigation or action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Any of the foregoing may harm our reputation, growth prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Financial, Tax and Accounting Matters The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which we first identified in fiscal 2019, were remediated as of the end of fiscal 2024. While we remediated these material weaknesses, such remediation does not guarantee that our remediated controls will continue to be effective or that we will not experience other material weaknesses in the future, which could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. We were a private company from our inception through our IPO, and, as such, we have not had the internal control over financial reporting requirements of a publicly traded company. As a result of becoming a public company, we are now required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2026. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which consisted of the following: (i) lack of an effective control environment including insufficient resources with an appropriate level of controls knowledge and expertise commensurate with our financial reporting requirements, (ii) ineffective controls over our financial close and financial reporting, including controls over cash flow statements, balance sheet reconciliations and journal entries including maintaining appropriate segregation of duties, (iii) ineffective controls related to the identification of, and accounting for, certain non-routine, complex or unusual events or transactions and the adoption of new accounting standards, and (iv) ineffective information technology general controls in the areas of user access, program change-management, program development and computer operations controls over certain information technology systems relevant to our financial statements. After these material weaknesses were identified, we implemented a remediation plan that included the following: We hired additional qualified accounting and IT personnel to bolster our technical reporting, operational accounting, tax and IT compliance capabilities. We implemented controls to formalize roles and review responsibilities to align with our teams skills and experience and implemented formal controls over segregation of duties. We evaluated our resource needs and will continue to evaluate and hire additional resources as needed to support our growth. 46 We designed and implemented procedures and controls to identify and account for complex accounting transactions and other technical accounting and financial reporting matters including accounting memoranda addressing these matters. We also engaged and will continue to engage external consultants with appropriate expertise for more complex technical accounting issues, specifically related to acquisitions and new accounting standards, which supplements our internal resources and allows us to scale our accounting processes to match growth and changes in our business and operations. We implemented an enterprise resource planning (ERP), system and other applications to support our business processes. We designed and implemented controls to, among other things, optimize automation to enhance our financial statement close process, reduce the number of manual journal entries, enforce segregation of duties and facilitate the proper review of journal entries. We formalized accounting processes, policies and procedures supporting our financial close process, including creating standard balance sheet reconciliation templates, and formalized procedures over the review of financial statements. We enhanced IT governance processes, including implementing a streamlined process to govern access and change management processes across key corporate applications, implementing more robust IT policies and procedures over access and change management and computer operations, automating components of our change management and logical access processes, and enhanced IT controls. As of January 31, 2024, we completed our remediation efforts, including the testing of the operating effectiveness of the controls, and we concluded that the material weaknesses have been remediated. However, we recognize that maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting will continue to require significant attention from management and expense, and we cannot guarantee that we will not identify material weaknesses in the future. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until after we are no longer an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse, which would occur in the event we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If new material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the SEC, could be adversely affected which, in turn, may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, any such failures could result in litigation or regulatory actions by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, loss of investor confidence, delisting of our securities and harm to our reputation and financial condition, or diversion of financial and management resources from the operation of our business. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including under our Credit Agreement, depends on our financial condition and results of operations, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal or interest on our indebtedness reflected in our consolidated financial statements. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay strategic acquisitions and partnerships, capital expenditures and payments on account of other obligations, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or sell assets. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and could require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 47 If we are unable to repay or otherwise refinance our indebtedness when due, if we fail to comply with financial or other covenants in our debt service agreements, which include liquidity covenant and a recurring revenue covenant, or if any other event of default is not cured or waived, the applicable lenders could accelerate our outstanding obligations or foreclose against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Any acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Agreement or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions that may limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. The terms of the Credit Agreement include a number of covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate with other companies or sell substantially all of our assets, pay dividends, make redemptions and repurchases of stock, make investments, loans and acquisitions or engage in transactions with affiliates. The terms of the Credit Agreement also include financial covenants, including a liquidity covenant and a recurring revenue covenant. The terms of the Credit Agreement may restrict our current and future operations and could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy, including potential acquisitions, and compete against companies which are not subject to such restrictions. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or enhance our existing platform, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. We may require additional financing to meet our working capital and capital expenditure in the future. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Debt financings increase expenses, may contain covenants that restrict the operation of our business, and must be repaid regardless of our results of operations. For example, covenants contained in our Credit Agreement will limit our ability to pay dividends, to create, incur or assume indebtedness or liens, to consummate certain strategic transactions, to engage in transactions with affiliates and to make certain investments. We evaluate financing opportunities from time to time, and our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans and operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be impaired, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies may be based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, which could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the recognition and measurement of certain assets and liabilities and revenue and expenses that is not readily apparent from other sources. Our accounting policies that involve judgment and use of estimates include revenue recognition, fair value of stock-based compensation, fair value of the common stock underlying our stock-based awards and fair value of assets 48 acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. We rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and our business. We track certain operational metrics, including the number of Active Customers, which we define as customers with over $10,000 of annualized billings, and GTV, with internal systems and tools that are not independently verified by any third party and which may differ from estimates or similar metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies or the assumptions on which we rely. Our internal systems and tools have a number of limitations, and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. We may also discover unexpected errors in the data that we are using that resulted from technical or other errors. If the internal systems and tools we use to track these metrics undercount or overcount performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. If we determine that any of our metrics or figures are not accurate, we may be required to revise or cease reporting such metrics or figures. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our metrics for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring these metrics. Limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. In addition, our methodology for calculating these metrics may differ from the methodology used by other companies to calculate similar metrics and figures. If our operating metrics are not accurate representations of our business, if investors do not perceive our operating metrics to be accurate or if we discover material inaccuracies with respect to these figures, we expect that our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Operating as a public company will require us to incur substantial costs and will require substantial management attention. As a public company, we incur substantial legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the rules and regulations of the SEC and the listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (the Exchange). The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and increase demand on our systems, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. In addition, as a public company, we may be subject to stockholder activism, which can lead to additional substantial costs, distract management and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. As a result of disclosure of information in this Annual Report and in filings required of a public company, our business, financial condition and results of operations will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors. Certain members of our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company, and certain members joined us more recently. As such, our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our transition to being a public company subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the continuous scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These new obligations and constituents will require significant attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. Our ability to utilize our federal net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs), may be limited under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). These limitations apply if we experience an ownership change, which is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in the ownership of our equity by certain stockholders over a rolling three-year period. 49 We conducted a formal study through January 31, 2025 that concluded that although there had been prior ownership changes, there were no actual limitations on the use of our NOLs. If we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to use our pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research and development tax credits) to offset our post-change income or taxes may be limited. Similar provisions of state tax law may also apply to limit the use of our state net operating loss carryforwards. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control, may result in an ownership change under these rules. There is a risk that due to changes in tax law, regulatory changes or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs or business tax credits could expire or otherwise become unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. At the state level, there may also be periods during which the use of NOLs or business tax credits is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed by us. For these reasons, we may not be able to realize a tax benefit from the use of our NOLs or tax credits, even if we attain profitability. Our results of operations may be harmed if we are required to collect or pay sales or other taxes in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use and other taxes, such as gross receipts taxes, excise taxes, and telecom taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. The application of federal, state, local and international tax laws to services provided electronically is evolving. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes and other taxes to our platform in various jurisdictions is unclear. We collect and remit sales tax and other taxes in the United States and value-added tax (VAT), in a number of international jurisdictions. It is possible, however, that we could face sales tax or other tax or VAT audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as tax authorities in the United States or other jurisdictions could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional tax amounts from our paying customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits in states and international jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our platform in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for such taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage organizations from subscribing to our platform, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, one or more state or foreign or other tax authorities could seek to impose additional sales, use, telecommunications tax or other tax collection and record-keeping obligations on us or may determine that such taxes should have, but have not been, paid by us. Liability for past taxes may also include substantial interest and penalty charges. Any successful action by state, foreign or other authorities to compel us to collect and remit sales tax, use tax, telecommunication tax or other taxes, either retroactively, prospectively, or both, may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations and those which we are subject to in various tax jurisdictions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Those enactments could harm our domestic and international business operations and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing and prospective customers may elect not to purchase our offerings in the future. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our offerings. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. or foreign taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or 50 revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. An increase in our tax liabilities could harm our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us, any of which may harm us and our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Changes in accounting principles applicable to us, or varying interpretations of current accounting principles, could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Further, any difficulties in the implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock and Governance The multi-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with Ara Mahdessian, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors, and Vahe Kuzoyan, our co-founder, President and a member of our board of directors, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other major corporate transaction. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share, our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and our Class C common stock has no votes per share, except as otherwise required by law. Our Co-Founders and their respective affiliates together hold all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. Accordingly, as of January 31, 2025, the shares held by our Co-Founders (including shares over which they have voting or administrative control) represented approximately 64% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, which voting power may increase over time as our Co-Founders exercise or vest in equity awards over time. If all such equity awards held by our Co-Founders (including the shares of our Class B common stock subject to performance-based RSUs that were granted to our Co-Founders in October 2024 and that vest upon the satisfaction of a service condition and achievement of certain stock price hurdles) had been exercised or vested and settled in shares of our Class B common stock as of January 31, 2025, the shares held by our Co-Founders (including shares over which they have voting or administrative control) represented approximately 75% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, our Co-Founders, along with our other principal stockholders, will be able to significantly influence or control any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other major corporate transaction. Our Co-Founders may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentrated control or significant influence may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their capital stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Further, the separation between voting power and economic interests could cause conflicts of interest between our Co-Founders and our other stockholders, which may result in our Co- Founders undertaking, or causing us to undertake, actions that would be desirable for our Co-Founders but would not be desirable for our other stockholders. Future transfers by the holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares automatically converting into shares of Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning. In addition, each share of Class B common stock will convert automatically into one share of Class A common stock upon certain events specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If the employment of one of our Co-Founders is terminated by us for reasons other than cause or death, the shares of Class B common stock held by such Co-Founder (and his affiliates) will not automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon such a termination. Under these circumstances, one of our Co-Founders could no longer be employed by us but continue to hold shares of Class B common stock that represent significant voting power of our 51 capital stock and could undertake actions that would be desirable for such Co-Founder but would not be desirable for other stockholders. Shares of our Class C common stock, which entitle the holder to no votes per share (except as otherwise required by law), will not be issued and outstanding upon the completion of the offering and we have no current plans to issue shares of Class C common stock. These shares will be available to be used in the future for various uses including to further strategic initiatives, such as financings or acquisitions, or issue future equity awards to our service providers. Over time, the issuance of shares of Class A common stock will result in voting dilution to all of our stockholders and this dilution could eventually result in our Co-Founders holding less than a majority of our total outstanding voting power. Once our Co-Founders own less than a majority of our total outstanding voting power, our Co- Founders will no longer have the unilateral ability to elect all of our directors and to significantly influence or control the outcome of any matter submitted for a vote of our stockholders. Because the shares of Class C common stock have no voting rights (except as required by law), the issuance of such shares will not result in further voting dilution, which will prolong the voting power of our Co-Founders. As a result, the issuance of shares of Class C common stock could prolong the duration of our Co-Founders control of our voting power and their ability to elect all of our directors and to significantly influence or control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. In addition, we could issue shares of Class C common stock to our Co-Founders and, in that event, they would be able to sell such shares of Class C common stock and achieve liquidity in their holdings without diminishing their voting power. Any future issuances of shares of Class C common stock will not be subject to approval by our stockholders except as required by the listing standards of the Exchange. For additional information about our multi-class structure, refer to the Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto. We cannot predict the effect our multi-class structure may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. We cannot predict whether our multi-class structure will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock, adverse publicity or other adverse consequences. For example, certain stock index providers have excluded or limited the eligibility of public companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to certain stock indices. The multi-class structure of our common stock would therefore make us ineligible for inclusion in indices with such restrictions and, as a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and other investment vehicles that attempt to passively track these indices may not invest in our Class A common stock. In addition, several stockholder advisory firms and large institutional investors have been critical of the use of multi-class structures. Such stockholder advisory firms may publish negative commentary about our corporate governance practices or capital structure, which may dissuade large institutional investors from purchasing shares of our Class A common stock. These actions could make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. The trading price of our Class A common stock may be volatile. There was no public market for our Class A common stock prior to our IPO, and an active trading market for our Class A common stock may not develop or be sustained. In addition, the trading price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot predict or control, including: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market or of technology stocks from time to time; volatility in the market due to macroeconomic developments, including but not limited to, the occurrence of pandemics, rising interest rates, other trade protection measures and increased inflation; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our Class A common stock by us or our stockholders, as well as the anticipation of the expiration of, or releases from, market standoff agreements or lock-up agreements; 52 failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new offerings or products; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; short selling of our Class A common stock or related derivative securities; actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our results of operations, including due to the seasonality of our business; actual or perceived cybersecurity breaches or incidents; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies by us or our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; litigation involving us, our industry, or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; new laws, regulations, rules or industry standards or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations, rules or industry standards applicable to our business; the impact of political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism, such as the conflict in the Middle East and between Russia and Ukraine and the corresponding tensions created from such conflict between Russia, the United States and countries in Europe and the Middle East, as well as other countries such as China; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management or board of directors; and sales of our Class A common stock by us, our founders, officers, directors and employees. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our Class A common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the trading price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, would result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Recently, the stock markets in general, and the markets for technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility. The stock prices of many technology companies have declined significantly and in certain instances the declines have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Furthermore, the trading price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by third parties trying to drive down the trading price of our Class A common stock. Short sellers and others, some of whom post anonymously on social media, can negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and may be positioned to profit if the trading price of our Class A common stock declines. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the trading price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 53 A substantial portion of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock (including shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of our Class B common stock) are currently restricted from immediate resale but may be sold on the Exchange in the near future. The large number of shares eligible for public sale or subject to rights requiring us to register them for public sale could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. The trading price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock in the market after our IPO, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the trading price of our Class A common stock. As of January 31, 2025, we had 76,644,240 shares of our Class A common stock, 13,404,097 shares of our Class B common stock and no shares of our Class C common stock outstanding. The shares of Class A common stock that we sold in our IPO were able to be resold immediately. The remaining shares of our capital stock will become available for sale under the terms of market standoff provisions in agreements with us, and lock-up agreements entered into between the holders of those shares and the underwriters of our IPO. Our executive officers, directors and the holders of a substantial majority of our capital stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock have entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our IPO under which they agreed, subject to specific exceptions, not to dispose of or hedge any of our capital stock for 180 days following the date of our IPO. We refer to this period as the restricted period. Our executive officers, directors and the holders of substantially all of our capital stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock are subject to market standoff agreements with us under which they agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the restricted period, they will not directly or indirectly dispose any of our capital stock. When the restricted period expires with respect to all or a portion of our shares, our security holders will be able to sell their shares in the public market. As a result of these agreements and the provisions of our amended and restated investors rights agreement, dated as of July 27, 2023 (the IRA), and subject to the provisions of Rule 144 or Rule 701 under the Securities Act, shares of our Class A common stock (including shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of our Class B common stock) became or will become available for sale in the public market as follows: all shares of our Class A common stock sold in the IPO became immediately available for sale in the public market; and beginning 181 days after the completion of the IPO, the remainder of the shares of our Class A common stock (including shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of our Class B common stock) will become immediately available for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144. Upon the completion of the IPO, stockholders owning an aggregate of up to approximately 80.5 million shares of our Class A common stock (including shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of our Class B common stock and/or the exercise or settlement, as applicable, of outstanding equity awards) were entitled, under the IRA, to require us to register shares owned by them for public sale in the United States. In addition, we filed a registration statement to register shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans and, subject to the satisfaction of applicable exercise periods and the expiration or waiver of the lock-up agreements referred to above, the shares issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. Sales of our Class A common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our Class A common stock. 54 Sales, directly or indirectly, of shares of our Class A common stock by existing equityholders could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales, directly or indirectly, of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock, or the public perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Many of our existing equity holders have substantial unrecognized gains on the value of the equity they hold, and may take, or attempt to take, steps to sell, directly or indirectly, their shares or otherwise secure, or limit the risk to, the value of their unrecognized gains on those shares. While our executive officers, directors and the holders of substantially all of our capital stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock have entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering or are subject to market standoff provisions with us, sales, short sales or hedging transactions involving our equity securities, whether or not we believe them to be prohibited, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Further, record holders of our securities are typically the parties to the lock-up agreements or market standoff provisions, while holders of beneficial interests in our shares who are not also record holders in respect of such shares are not typically subject to any such agreements or other similar restrictions. Accordingly, we believe that holders of beneficial interests who are not record holders and are not bound by lock-up agreements or market standoff provisions could enter into transactions with respect to those beneficial interests that negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, to the extent an equity holder does not comply with or the underwriters are unable to enforce the terms of a lock-up agreement or market standoff provision, such equity holder may be able to sell, short sell, transfer, hedge, pledge or otherwise dispose of or attempt to sell, short sell, transfer, hedge, pledge or otherwise dispose of, their equity interests at any time during the restricted period, which could negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL) may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including the following: our amended and restated bylaws provide that approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock voting as a single class is required for stockholders to amend or adopt any provision of our bylaws; our multi-class structure, which provides our Co-Founders with the ability to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock; our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting; vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by appointment by our board of directors and not by stockholders; our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms and directors are only able to be removed from office for cause; a special meeting of our stockholders may only be called by the chairperson of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer, our President or a majority of our board of directors; certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware; 55 our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without further action by our stockholders; and advance notice procedures will applies for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions, alone or together, could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire, any of which, under certain circumstances, could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our Class A common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws designate a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or (iv) any other action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), in all cases subject to the court having jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated bylaws further provide that the federal district courts of the United States are the exclusive forum for resolving any complaints asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. We note, however, that investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, and that there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce this exclusive forum provision. Further, the enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies charter documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find these types of provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable. For example, in December 2018, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware determined that a provision stating that U.S. federal district courts are the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act is not enforceable. Although this decision was reversed by the Delaware Supreme Court in March 2020, other courts may still find these provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our securities shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision. This exclusive-forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. This exclusive forum provision will not apply to any causes of action arising under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 56 We are an emerging growth company and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including an exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirement on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, reduced disclosure obligations about our executive compensation arrangements and exemptions from the requirements to obtain a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation or stockholder approval of any golden parachute arrangements. As an emerging growth company, we are also allowed to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to those of companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Any difficulties in implementing these pronouncements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. We may take advantage of these exemptions for so long as we are an emerging growth company, which could be for as long as five full reporting years. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and the trading price of our Class A common stock may be more volatile. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock adversely, the trading price and trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. The analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. Analysts may misinterpret our business and focus on certain standard SaaS metrics, like calculated billings and remaining performance obligations, that are not as applicable to us as other peer companies. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our Class A common stock adversely, provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the trading price of our Class A common stock would likely decline. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets and demand for our securities could decrease, which could cause the trading price and volume of our Class A common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future on our capital stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future on our capital stock. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the operation of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their capital stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. An entity affiliated with Vahe Kuzoyan, our co-founder and President has pledged shares of our Class B common stock to secure certain borrowings. The forced sale of these shares pursuant to a margin call would cause these shares of Class B common stock to convert into shares of Class A common stock and could cause our stock price to decline and negatively impact our business. In December 2021, Vahe Kuzoyan, our co-founder, President and a member of our board of directors and his spouse, individually and as trustees of the K-A Family Trust dated December 6, 2021 (the Trust), entered into a loan agreement and security and pledge agreement. The loan is secured by pledges of a portion of our Class B common stock currently owned by the Trust. Mr. Kuzoyan exercises voting control over the pledged shares of Class B common stock. 57 If the price of our Class A common stock were to decline substantially, Mr. Kuzoyan, his spouse and the Trust may be forced to provide additional collateral for the loan or to sell shares of our Class A common stock (after converting shares of Class B common stock) in order to remain within the margin limitations imposed under the terms of the loan. The loan agreement prohibits the non-pledged shares currently owned by Mr. Kuzoyan, his spouse and the Trust, as well as equity interests in our Company held by Mr. Kuzoyan, from being pledged to secure any other loans or from being sold, transferred or assigned. These factors may limit Mr. Kuzoyans and the Trusts ability to either pledge additional shares of our Class B common stock or sell shares of our Class A common stock (after converting shares of Class B common stock) as a means to avoid or satisfy a margin call with respect to the pledged shares of our Class B common stock in the event of a decline in our stock price that is so substantial as to trigger a margin call. Any sales of Class A common stock following a margin call that is not satisfied may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline further. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We have developed and implemented a cybersecurity risk management program intended to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our critical systems and information. We design and assess our program based on International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001 and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) standards. This does not imply that we meet any particular technical standards, specifications, or requirements, only that we use ISO and PCI DSS as a guide to help us identify, assess, and manage cybersecurity risks relevant to our business. Our cybersecurity risk management program is integrated into our overall risk management program, and shares common methodologies, reporting channels and governance processes that apply across the risk management program to other legal, compliance, strategic, operational, and financial risk areas. Key elements of our cybersecurity risk management program include but are not limited to the following: risk assessments designed to help identify material risks from cybersecurity threats to our critical systems and information; internal audits; bug bounties, phishing and penetration tests; a security team principally responsible for managing (1) our cybersecurity risk assessment processes, (2) our security controls, and (3) our response to cybersecurity incidents; the use of external service providers, where appropriate, to assess, test or otherwise assist with aspects of our security processes; cybersecurity awareness training of our employees, including incident response personnel and senior management; a cybersecurity incident response plan that includes procedures for responding to cybersecurity incidents, as well as dedicated and expert incident commander(s) to steer incident response and resolution; and a third-party risk management process for key service providers based on our assessment of their criticality to our operations and respective risk profile. 58 We have not identified risks from known cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any prior cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected us, including our operations, business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. We face risks from cybersecurity threats that, if realized, are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our operations, business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Data Privacy, Data Protection, Cybersecurity and TechnologyThe collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information are governed by a rapidly evolving framework of privacy, data protection, cybersecurity information transfers or other laws or regulations worldwide and may limit the use and adoption of our services and adversely affect our business. Cybersecurity Governance Our Board considers cybersecurity risk as part of its risk oversight function and has delegated to the Audit Committee (the Committee) oversight of cybersecurity risks, including oversight of managements implementation of our cybersecurity risk management program. The Committee receives periodic reports from management on our cybersecurity risks. In addition, management updates the Committee, where it deems appropriate, regarding cybersecurity incidents it considers to be significant. The Committee reports to the full Board regarding its activities, including those related to cybersecurity. Board members receive presentations on cybersecurity topics from our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), internal security staff or external experts as part of the Boards continuing education on topics that impact public companies. Our management receives briefings from our CISO on our cyber risk management program and escalates matters to the Board as needed. Our CISO is primarily responsible for assessing and managing our material risks from cybersecurity threats. The CISO, who reports to our Chief Technology Officer, has primary responsibility for our overall cybersecurity risk management program and supervises both our internal cybersecurity personnel and our retained external cybersecurity consultants.Our CISO is an industry-recognized and credentialed executive with over a decade of leadership in information security, holding multiple professional certifications. Our CISO takes steps to stay informed about and monitor efforts to prevent, detect, mitigate, and remediate cybersecurity risks and incidents through various means, which may include: briefings from internal security personnel; threat intelligence and other information obtained from governmental, public or private sources, including external consultants engaged by us; and alerts and reports produced by security tools deployed in our IT environment. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters are located in Glendale, California, where we lease an aggregate of approximately 215,000 square feet, as of January 31, 2025, pursuant to lease agreements that expire in July 2030. Our other leased facilities in the United States are in Atlanta, Georgia; Chesterfield, Missouri; Draper, Utah; Plano, Texas; and San Francisco, California; as well as internationally in Armenia. We lease all of our facilities and do not own any real property. We believe that our facilities are suitable to meet our current needs, and that suitable additional or alternative space will be available as needed to accommodate any growth to support new employees or new geographic markets. 59 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings arising from the normal course of business activities. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which, we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves, our partners and our customers by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party proprietary rights, to establish our proprietary rights or for other matters. Involvement in such proceedings is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of legal expenses and settlement costs, diversion of management attention and resources and other factors. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not Applicable. 60 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information for Common Stock Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol TTAN since December 12, 2024. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our Class A common stock. Our Class B common stock and Class C common stock is neither listed nor publicly traded. Holders of Record As of March 15, 2025, there were 222 holders of record of our Class A common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes an indeterminate number of stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. As of March 15, 2025, there were 10 holders of record of our Class B common stock and no shares of our Class C common stock outstanding. Dividend Policy The terms of our Credit Agreement place certain limitations on the amount of cash dividends we can pay, even if no amounts are currently outstanding. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities Plan-Related Issuances From February 1, 2024 to December 12, 2024 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we issued and sold to our directors, officers, employees, consultants and other service providers an aggregate of 511,755 shares of our common stock upon the exercise of stock options under our 2015 Stock Plan, at exercise prices ranging from $0.19 to $63.55 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $5.8 million. From February 1, 2024 to December 12, 2024 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8), we granted to our directors, officers, employees, consultants and other service providers an aggregate of 3,527,375 restricted stock units (RSUs) to be settled in shares of our Class A of our common stock and an aggregate of 6,483,088 RSUs to be settled in shares of our Class B common stock, in each case pursuant to our 2015 Stock Plan. Shares Issued in Connection with Acquisitions In April 2024, we issued an aggregate of 373,118 shares of our common stock as consideration to accredited investors. None of the foregoing transactions involved any underwriters, underwriting discounts or commissions, or any public offering. The offers, sales, and issuances of the securities described above were deemed to be exempt from registration under Rule 701 promulgated under the Securities Act, as transactions under compensatory benefits plans and contracts relating to compensation, or under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering. The recipients of the securities in each of these transactions represented their intentions to acquire the securities for investment only and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution 61 thereof, and appropriate legends were placed upon the stock certificates issued in these transactions. All recipients had adequate access, through their relationships with us, to information about us. The sales of these securities were made without any general solicitation or advertising. Use of Proceeds On December 11, 2024, our registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-283296), as amended, was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) in connection with our initial public offering (IPO). We received aggregate proceeds of $674.1 million, net of underwriting costs and offering expenses. There has been no material change in the expected use of the net proceeds from our IPO as described in our Prospectus, filed with the SEC on December 12, 2024. Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. The following graph compares the cumulative total return to stockholders on our Class A common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Standard & Poors 500 Index (the S&P 500), and the S&P 500 Information Technology Sector Index. An investment of $100 is assumed to have been made in our Class A common stock and in each index on December 12, 2024, the date our Class A common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and its relative performance is tracked through January 31, 2025. The graph uses the closing market price on December 12, 2024 of $101.00 per share as the initial value of our Class A common stock. Data for the S&P 500 and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index assume reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons in the graph below are based upon historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of our Class A common stock. Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 62 None. Item 6. [Reserved] 63 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and our actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other parts of this Annual Report. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. The last day of our fiscal year is January 31, and our fiscal quarters end on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31. Our fiscal years ended January 31, 2023, 2024 and 2025 are referred to herein as fiscal 2023, fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025, respectively. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report to we, us, our, our company, and ServiceTitan refer to ServiceTitan, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references to our common stock include our Class A common stock, Class B common stock and Class C common stock. Overview ServiceTitan is the operating system that powers the trades. We are modernizing a large and technologically underserved industryan industry commonly referred to as the trades. The trades consist of the collection of field service activities required to install, maintain, and service the infrastructure and systems of residences and commercial buildings. ServiceTitan was born in the trades and built for the trades. Our founders, Ara Mahdessian and Vahe Kuzoyan (our Co-Founders), founded ServiceTitan to provide tradespeople, like their parents, with technology that is purpose built to help trades businesses thrive. Our software provides an end-to-end, cloud-based software platform that connects and manages a wide array of business workflows such as advertising, job scheduling and management, dispatching, generating estimates and invoices, payment processing and more. Tradespeople spend their days interfacing with the ServiceTitan platform across what we believe to be the five most business-critical functions, or the core centers of gravity, inside a trades business: CRM (customer relationship management, including sales enablement, marketing automation and customer service), FSM (field service management, including scheduling and dispatching), ERP (enterprise resource planning, including inventory), HCM (human capital management, including compensation and payroll integration) and FinTech (including payments and third-party consumer financing). By offering interoperable capabilities in all five centers of gravity, we continuously capture comprehensive data insights across key workflows in a trades business. Our close customer proximity and deep connection with the industry enable us to make evidence-based recommendations that can improve our customers business outcomes by identifying and replicating what works and fixing what does not. Our insights are augmented by the vast amounts of structured and unstructured data that we synthesize into best practices. These insights are then delivered across automated workflows, many of which we enhance with artificial intelligence (AI), to address the distinct vertical-specific needs of the trades. Our platform is differentiated by our close customer proximity and deep connection with the trades industry, which enables us to make real-time, evidence-based recommendations to our customers, augmented by the vast amounts of data that we synthesize into best practices. Our platform enables impactful outcomes for our customers, including accelerating revenue and driving operational efficiency, all while improving the experience for both end customers and contractors. As customers experience the significant business acceleration benefits of our platform, we have often observed our customers hire more technicians, increase gross transaction volume (GTV), representing total dollars invoiced by our customers to end customers through our platform, and adopt more add-on products. Increased customer adoption of our platform leads to further data and insights, allowing us to build more differentiated features and address opportunities in new trades, use cases and customer subsegments. All of this allows us to drive more growth and efficiency for customers, delivering outsized return on investment (ROI), in our products. In fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024, we processed $68.5 billion and $55.7 billion of GTV, respectively. 64 Recent Developments Initial Public Offering In December 2024, we completed our initial public offering (the IPO), in which we issued and sold an aggregate of 10,120,000 shares of our Class A common stock at a public offering price of $71.00 per share. We received aggregate proceeds of $674.1 million, net of underwriting costs and offering expenses. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all 42,465,855 shares of our then-outstanding shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock automatically converted into 44,257,289 Class A common shares at their respective as-adjusted conversion ratios. Upon the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-1 relating to the IPO (the IPO Registration Statement), the performance vesting condition of certain stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) was met, and we recognized $59.1 million of stock-based compensation expense for the portion of the service period completed by service providers from the grant date through the effectiveness of the IPO Registration Statement. Seasonality and Other Fluctuations Generally, demand for our customers services tends to increase during the second quarter of our fiscal year, as hot weather in the summer months typically results in higher demand for trades businesses. Given that our revenue model allows our customers to scale as needed (processing more GTV through our platform and adding technicians), our sequential revenue growth has historically been strongest in the second quarter of each fiscal year. This is especially true for our usage-based revenue, which is directly tied to the amount of GTV processed through our platform. As our usage-based revenue consists primarily of payment processing, which we recognize net of interchange and other direct expenses which are passed to the customer, this seasonality also positively impacts our platform gross margin and operating margin for the second quarter of each fiscal year. Our historical growthincluding through the acquisition of new customers and the launch of new products, particularly subscription-based products that are less seasonally impacted than our usage-based productsmay have made it more difficult to evaluate the impact of seasonality on our business by masking the full impact of the heightened quarter-over-quarter growth we have generally experienced in the second quarter of each fiscal year. Going forward, we believe seasonality may continue to impact our quarterly results, potentially becoming more pronounced, or evolving to reveal novel seasonal trends. Certain recurring operational events that occur through our fiscal year have also historically impacted our financial performance. Specifically, we typically experience higher operating cash outflows during our first fiscal quarter due to payment of annual corporate bonuses. Additionally, our third fiscal quarter performance typically reflects increased sales and marketing expense related to our annual user conferences, Ignite and Pantheon. Key Factors Affecting Our Business Performance We believe that the growth and future success of our business is dependent upon many factors, including those described below. Increase GTV on Our Platform Grow with Our Customers. Our long-term revenue growth is correlated with the success of customers on our platform, and we strive to support the growth of their businesses. We can improve outcomes for our customers across every stage of the go-to-market funnel, from determining which end customers to target, marketing to those end customers effectively and converting and retaining end customers. We empower technicians with the tools and training necessary to drive better end-customer outcomes that, in turn, can generate higher ticket sizes and more repeatable work orders. As our customers grow on our platform and expand into additional locations, generating more sales, hiring more technicians and automating more workflows, they can also significantly increase GTV, and, in turn, drive our growth and financial success. Increase GTV By Serving Additional Customers in Existing Trades and Markets. Our ability to increase GTV also depends on our ability to serve additional customers in existing trades and markets. As our platform has deepened and expanded in features, we have been able to serve larger customers. The trades industry is also experiencing an 65 influx of professional operators, including private equity owners, who are investing in and consolidating the trades, in many cases on our platform. Because of these dynamics, we focus on increasing the GTV on our platform, rather than new customer count. We believe our market opportunity is substantial, and we expect to continue to make significant investments across all aspects of our business to continue to increase the GTV on our platform. We designed our platform to address key workflows within a trades business. In contrast, existing solutions are difficult to adopt and resource-intensive to stitch together in a manner that would address multiple workflows and generate return on investment for trades businesses. This gives us a substantial opportunity to continue to invest in our platform and in our sales and marketing efforts to add more customers in, or help existing customers expand into, the expansive set of trade verticals we have penetrated so far. We also believe that there is further potential to expand our customer base by productizing additional capabilities for these trade verticals. Increase GTV By Entering New Trades and Markets. ServiceTitan began by serving a single tradeplumbingand focusing on residential homes, and we now serve many trades that serve all sites: homes, businesses and even new construction. As we have penetrated new trades over time, we have significantly expanded our potential customer reach, unlocking new markets to drive future customer growth. We plan to continue to innovate and expand into new trade verticals through our playbook of harnessing common features of the trades industry, while also identifying and building features specific to each new trade vertical. It takes significant time and research and development to identify new trade verticals to enter and build out functionalities on top of our common products, as well as investment in sales and marketing resources, to ensure we can successfully go to market with an end-to-end offering in such new verticals. Retain and Expand Our Existing Customer Relationships Our ability to retain and increase the revenue we earn from existing customers is a key driver of our future business performance and depends on our customers renewing their subscriptions to our platform, expanding their number of users, increasing their usage of existing solutions and adopting additional products, driven by the three key strategies described below. We have observed that as customers experience the significant business acceleration benefits of our platform, they typically not only remain on our platform but also often hire more technicians and adopt more of our products. Retain Our Customers. Our customer relationship begins with a thorough onboarding process. Then, our customers deploy our platform end-to-end across their entire organization, meaning the ServiceTitan platform powers their workflows and is the primary interface used by their employees. As a result, we become deeply embedded as the operating system that powers our customers businesses. Over time, our Customer Success Management teams work closely with our customers to assist them in fully utilizing our platform. Drive More Value to Our Customers through Add-on Product Adoption. As we demonstrate the high ROI of our products to our customers, we are able to sell more add-on products to them and increase our share of wallet, which we measure as the portion of our customers GTV that we are able to earn. We efficiently expand our customer relationships over time to serve their additional needs and automate more workflows through our platform. We believe that the more our customers use our platform to power their workflows, the more value we deliver to them, and the higher revenue we can earn from them. As a result, we continue to invest in research and development to improve the functionality of our existing Core and add-on products. Our ability to increase adoption of our add-on products will depend on customer satisfaction with our platform, competition, pricing and our ability to continuously demonstrate the value proposition of our add-on products. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing, thought leadership, industry resources and evolving our customer success teams to focus on driving additional expanded value to customers on our platform. Build New Products to Extend Our Platform. We have a culture of significant innovation evidenced by the extension of our platforms capabilities over time, producing new workflows across trades. We intend to continue to judiciously invest in research and development to expand the functionality of our platform, to develop new add-on products and to broaden our capabilities to address new market opportunities across trades. Powering key workflows of our customers through our Core product positions us to deliver value-added Pro and FinTech products that complement our Core product. We build Pro and FinTech products as an integrated add-on to our expansive Core product offering to deliver our customers business outcomes in a way that we believe no individual, standalone point solution can. As we continue to innovate and execute on our product roadmap, we believe customers will continue to 66 find our new products additive and therefore continue to adopt them. We believe that there is further potential to expand our market opportunity by building new products to earn an even greater potential share of our customers GTV in the future. While our engrained industry position and exposure to the trades facilitate efficient product development opportunities, innovating new products will continue to require substantial time and research and development resources. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We have two general categories of revenue as set forth below: Platform Revenue We principally generate platform revenue through (i) subscription revenue generated from access to and use of our platform, including subscriptions to our Core and certain Pro products, and (ii) usage-based revenue generated from the transactions using our FinTech solutions and usage of certain Pro products and other usage-based services. Our customer contracts are generally based on the number of users, mix of products, number of end customers and the amount of GTV. We offer tiered subscription plans for our Core and Pro products with varying contract lengths. Pursuant to these subscription contracts our customers do not have the ability to take possession of our proprietary software. For new customers, we primarily enter into either annual or multi-year subscription agreements with contract terms typically ranging from 12 to 36 months; however, certain Pro product and legacy customers are on month-to-month contracts. In nearly all cases, these contracts (monthly, annual, or multi-year) are renewed automatically unless cancelled in advance. We generally bill our customers on a monthly basis in advance of services, regardless of contract term. In some cases for certain products, the customer is billed in arrears. Pricing for these subscriptions are driven by the features included in the package and are linked to the size of the customers business, generally based on the number of field technicians at the customer but in some cases directly tied to the number of end customers or the customers revenue. In this way, our success is linked to the growth of our customers, which we measure through our net dollar retention rate. Our net dollar retention rate was over 110% for each of the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023.1 When subscription fees are received in advance of providing the related services, we record deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet and recognize the revenue ratably over the related subscription period. We recognize a contract asset when revenue has been recognized but our right to consideration from the customer is conditional upon our future performance. Contract assets are transferred to accounts receivable when our right to the consideration becomes unconditional. ___________ 1Our net dollar retention rate measures the increase in annualized billings across our existing customer base by comparing the annualized billings from the same set of customers across comparable periods. To calculate our net dollar retention rate as of a given quarter, we first calculate annualized billings from the cohort of all customers billed in the same quarter in the prior year (the prior period annualized billings). We then calculate annualized billings from these same customers as of the current quarter (the current period annualized billings). Current period annualized billings includes the effect of any expansion, contraction or churn over the trailing 12 months. We divide (a) current period annualized billings by (b) prior period annualized billings to arrive at the net dollar retention rate. When calculating net dollar retention rate, we do not include the billings from any customers that were acquired as the result of our acquisition of a business until the completion of the first full quarter following the one-year anniversary of the acquisition. We define annualized billings for a given quarter as the annualized value of the quarterly amount invoiced for our Core and Pro products, net of reserves, and the quarterly revenue recognized for our FinTech products. Contracts for our platform solutions range from monthly to multi-year. While monthly subscribers as a group have historically maintained or increased their subscriptions over time, there is no guarantee that any particular customer on a monthly subscription will renew its subscription in any given month, and therefore the calculation of annualized billings for these monthly subscriptions may not accurately reflect revenue to be received over a 12-month period from such customers. There may be seasonal fluctuations in annualized billings as a result of heightened demand for our customers during peak times. Annualized billings should be viewed independently of, and not as a replacement for, revenue and does not represent our revenue on an annualized basis. 67 Usage-based services primarily consist of payment processing where we connect to third-party processors to allow our customers to accept payments, primarily credit and debit cards, and also includes end-customer financing solutions and other forms of payment. The third-party processor determines the eligibility of the end customer to participate in the programs, provides the payment settlement and financing options to the end customer and is responsible for the provision of the payment or financing services. We receive a fee from the third-party processors, depending on the size and type of the transaction, which we recognize net of interchange and other direct expenses which are passed onto the customer. Revenue from financing and processing payments is recognized at the time of the transaction. In addition to payment processing revenue, we have a number of Pro products that generate revenue depending on the level of usage, which we recognize monthly in arrears based on consumption. Professional Services and Other Revenue Professional services and other revenue is primarily derived from services we provide to our customers, principally onboarding, training, and some ongoing professional services. Professional services and other revenue also includes revenue generated from our live voice and chat services and certain other ancillary hardware products and services sold to customers. Fees for these professional services are generally invoiced separately at the commencement of the contract or as ordered by the customer. Revenue is recognized for professional services as the services are performed or products are delivered. Cost of Revenue Platform Cost of platform revenue consists of personnel-related costs and costs related to the provisioning of our platform services. Personnel-related costs primarily include salary, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation related to our customer support team and certain customer success personnel. Costs related to the provisioning of our platform services are primarily comprised of fees paid to third-party service providers associated with delivery of Pro and FinTech products, platform infrastructure and server costs, call tracking fees, and payment processing fees. In addition, cost of platform revenue includes amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, amortization of capitalized internal-use software costs directly related to our cloud-based software solution and allocated overhead, which we define as costs such as depreciation, rent, utilities, and other facilities-related costs that are allocated across our expense categories based on headcount. We expect our cost of platform revenue to increase in absolute dollars as the adoption and usage of our platform and product offerings increase. In addition, we expect our platform cost of revenue to decrease as a percentage of revenue resulting from a portion of our customer success personnel changing roles to sales and marketing activities at the beginning of fiscal 2026 as we shift the customer success function to focus on both customer retention and also customer expansion. Professional Services and Other Professional services and other cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel-related costs in connection with providing customer onboarding and customer implementation, live voice and chat services. Personnel-related costs primarily include salary, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Professional services and other cost of revenue also includes amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, allocated overhead, and the cost of other ancillary hardware products and services sold to customers. Professional services and other cost of revenue historically has exceeded professional services and other revenue as we invest in providing customers with implementation and onboarding services to enhance customer success. We expect our cost of professional services and other revenue to increase in absolute dollars as the adoption of our product offerings for both new and existing customers increases. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. 68 We incurred $59.1 million of the stock-based compensation expense associated with certain performance-based options and RSUs, which is included in operating expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025, resulting from the completion of our IPO on December 13, 2024. In addition, we will incur additional stock-based compensation expense going forward relating to these award, including the performance-based RSUs granted to our Co-Founders. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting costs and other costs incurred in connection with our sales and marketing and certain customer success efforts. Personnel-related costs primarily include salary, commissions, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation for our outbound sales personnel that focus on new customer acquisition and for our customer success personnel that focus on expanding adoption of our products at existing customers. Sales and marketing expense also includes marketing and advertising expenses, such as our annual customer conferences, Pantheon and Ignite, and travel and trade show expenses, amortization of acquired customer intangible assets and allocated overhead. Our annual customer conferences are significant sales and marketing events, so we therefore expect an increase in sales and marketing expense during the fiscal third quarter when they occur. We expect that sales and marketing expense will increase on an absolute dollar basis as we invest to grow our business. We plan to continue to expand sales and marketing efforts to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenue from both new and existing customers by adding outbound sales personnel. In addition, we expect our sales marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue resulting from a portion of our customer success personnel shifting roles to sales and marketing activities at the beginning fiscal 2026 as we shift the customer success function to focus on both customer retention and also customer expansion. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related and other costs incurred in connection with product management and development efforts. Personnel-related costs primarily include salary, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. Research and development expense also includes fees to third-party product development resources, infrastructure and server costs, and allocated overhead costs. We expect that research and development expense will increase on an absolute dollar basis as we invest to build, enhance, maintain and scale our products. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, information systems, operations and human resource teams. Personnel-related costs primarily include salary, employee benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense also includes professional fees, other outside consulting expenses, acquisition-related expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expense will increase on an absolute dollar basis, but over time decrease as a percentage of total revenue, as we focus on the efficiency of our processes and systems that will enable our internal support functions to scale with the growth of our business. We expect increases to general and administrative expense to support our growth and as we incur the costs of compliance associated with being a public company, including increased accounting and legal expenses. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net, consists primarily of interest expense related to our debt arrangements with financial institutions, interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents, gains or losses on foreign currency transactions and miscellaneous other income. Provision For Income Taxes Our income tax provision consists of U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. We maintain a full valuation allowance for our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, that are unable 69 to be offset by our U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities, as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets will be realized. Results of Operations For a discussion of our consolidated statement of operations data for the fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, refer to the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on December 11, 2024. The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Fiscal 2025 2024 2023 (in thousands) Revenue: Platform $ 739,486 $ 581,751 $ 443,523 Professional services and other 32,392 32,590 24,211 Total revenue 771,878 614,341 467,734 Cost of revenue: Platform 202,982 169,766 140,921 Professional services and other 67,969 67,945 60,789 Total cost of revenue 270,951 237,711 201,710 Gross profit 500,927 376,630 266,024 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 253,349 219,994 196,775 Research and development 263,054 203,534 158,870 General and administrative 214,476 135,966 132,235 Total operating expenses 730,879 559,494 487,880 Loss from operations (229,952 ) (182,864 ) (221,856 ) Other expense, net Interest expense (15,517 ) (16,436 ) (54,542 ) Interest income 8,765 7,067 1,624 Loss on extinguishment of debt (9,607 ) Other income (expense), net (72 ) 1,224 1,801 Total other expense, net (6,824 ) (8,145 ) (60,724 ) Loss before income taxes (236,776 ) (191,009 ) (282,580 ) Provision for income taxes 2,318 4,136 (13,057 ) Net loss $ (239,094 ) $ (195,145 ) $ (269,523 ) Comparison of Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2024 Revenue Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Revenue Platform $ 739,486 $ 581,751 $ 157,735 27 % Professional services and other 32,392 32,590 (198 ) (1 )% Total revenue $ 771,878 $ 614,341 $ 157,537 26 % Platform revenue increased by $157.7 million, or 27%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily driven by subscription revenue, which increased by $124.2 million, or 28%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. In addition, revenue from our usage-based products increased by $33.5 million, or 24%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily driven by increases in both the volume and value of payment transactions processed using our FinTech offerings. 70 Professional services and other revenue decreased by $0.2 million, or 1%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. This decrease was primarily driven by the disposal of certain marketing solutions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, which contributed $4.7 million in revenue for fiscal 2024. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from a higher volume of professional services performed in fiscal 2025. Cost of Revenue Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue Platform $ 202,982 $ 169,766 $ 33,216 20 % Professional services and other 67,969 67,945 24 0 % Total cost of revenue $ 270,951 $ 237,711 $ 33,240 14 % Gross profit $ 500,927 $ 376,630 Platform gross margin 73 % 71 % Professional services and other gross margin (110 )% (108 )% Total gross margin 65 % 61 % Platform cost of revenue increased by $33.2 million, or 20%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. This increase was primarily due to a $13.7 million increase in the costs related to the provisioning of our platform services products and $10.4 million increase in personnel-related costs, primarily due to an increase in headcount. In addition, amortization of capitalized internally developed software increased by $4.8 million and we also recorded a $4.7 million increase in impairment losses on operating lease assets and related property and equipment for the portion of our headquarters that we ceased to use. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million of restructuring costs related to our reductions in workforce. Platform gross margin increased to 73% for fiscal 2025, compared to 71% for fiscal 2024, primarily due to improved efficiencies in delivering our platform at scale. Professional services and other cost of revenue were flat for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. Personnel-related costs increased by $3.6 million primarily due to an increase in headcount and we also recorded a $2.3 million increase in impairment losses on operating lease assets and related property and equipment for a portion of our headquarters space that we ceased to use. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.7 million in acquired amortization of intangible assets due to accelerated amortization expense related to the disposal of certain marketing solutions in fiscal 2024, and a decrease of $2.1 million of restructuring costs related to our reductions in workforce. Professional services and other gross margin decreased slightly to (110)% for fiscal 2025, compared to (108)% for fiscal 2024. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Expense Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing expense $ 253,349 $ 219,994 $ 33,355 15 % Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue 33 % 36 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $33.4 million, or 15%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. The increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily driven by an increase of $25.6 million in personnel-related costs related to an increase in headcount, including an increase of $4.2 million in commissions and an increase of $3.5 million in stock-based compensation. We also recorded a $6.0 million increase in impairment losses on operating lease assets and related property and equipment for a portion of our headquarters space that we ceased to use during 71 fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024. Additionally, marketing and advertising costs increased $3.3 million. These were partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million of restructuring costs related to our reductions in workforce. Research and Development Expense Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Research and development expense $ 263,054 $ 203,534 $ 59,520 29 % Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue 34 % 33 % Research and development expense increased by $59.5 million, or 29%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. The increase in research and development expense was primarily driven by an increase of $48.0 million in personnel-related costs related to an increase in headcount, including an increase of $12.8 million in stock-based compensation. The increase in stock-based compensation included $8.7 million in expense recorded for performance awards where vesting was triggered due to our IPO. Additionally, infrastructure and server costs and software subscription fees related to our ongoing product development efforts increased $4.3 million related to our ongoing product development efforts. We also recorded a $5.8 million increase in impairment losses on operating lease assets and related property and equipment for a portion of our headquarters space that we ceased to use. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $1.0 million in third-party development resources as we leveraged more internal development resources in fiscal 2025. General and Administrative Expense Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) General and administrative expense $ 214,476 $ 135,966 $ 78,510 58 % General and administrative expense as a percentage of revenue 28 % 22 % General and administrative expense increased by $78.5 million, or 58%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily driven by an increase of $57.4 million in personnel-related costs related to an increase in headcount, including an increase of $44.8 million in stock-based compensation. The increase in stock-based compensation also included $52.2 million in expense recorded for performance awards where vesting was triggered due to our IPO, of which $15.0 million related to performance-based RSUs granted to our Co-Founders, which were partially offset by a $6.2 million expense in fiscal 2024 related to the 2024 Tender Offer. We also recorded a $15.5 million increase in impairment losses on operating lease assets and related property and equipment for a portion of our headquarters space that we ceased to use. Additionally, consulting and professional fees increased $2.7 million primarily related to preparation activities for our IPO in fiscal 2025 and acquisition related expenses increased $1.6 million related to our acquisition of Convex Labs Inc. (Convex) in fiscal 2025. Other Expense, Net Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Other expense, net $ (6,824 ) $ (8,145 ) $ 1,321 (16 )% Other expense, net, decreased by $1.3 million, or 16%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024, primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in interest income related to our higher cash balance and a decrease of $0.9 million in 72 interest expense due to the restructuring of our debt in fiscal 2025. These were partially offset by $1.0 million of government grants related to our operations in Armenia in fiscal 2024. Provision for Income Taxes Fiscal Change 2025 2024 $ Percent (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,318 $ 4,136 $ (1,818 ) (44 )% Our provision for income taxes decreased by $1.8 million, or 44%, for fiscal 2025, compared to fiscal 2024. The change is primarily driven by income earned by our foreign subsidiaries. For additional detail, see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results prepared in accordance with GAAP, we believe non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin (in total and for platform and professional services and other), non-GAAP sales and marketing expense, non-GAAP research and development expense, non-GAAP general and administrative expense, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP net income (loss) are useful in evaluating our operating performance. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the following items provides information that is helpful in understanding our results of operations, evaluating our future prospects, comparing our financial results across accounting periods, and comparing our financial results to our peers, many of which provide similar non-GAAP financial measures. Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes. We exclude stock-based compensation expense, including the performance-based RSUs granted to our Co-Founders,and related employer payroll taxes to allow investors to make more meaningful comparisons of our performance between periods and to facilitate a comparison of our performance to those of other peer companies. Stock-based compensation expense may vary between periods due to various factors unrelated to our core performance, including as a result of the assumptions used in the valuation methodologies, timing and amount of grants, the completion of our IPO, and other factors. We exclude employer payroll taxes because the amounts vary based on timing and settlement or vesting of awards unrelated to our core operating performance. Moreover, stock-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes and when assessing our actual performance, budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. We incur amortization expense for acquired intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of acquired intangible assets is a non-cash expense that is significantly affected by the timing and size of acquisitions, and the inherent subjective nature of purchase price allocations. Because these costs have already been incurred, we exclude the amortization expense from our internal management reporting processes. We exclude these charges when assessing our actual performance and when budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Restructuring charges. To better align our strategic priorities with our investments, we implemented workforce reductions in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025. In connection with these reductions, we incurred employee-related expenses including severance and other termination benefits. We excluded these charges when assessing our actual performance and when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Loss on operating lease assets. In fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025, we incurred impairments on certain right-of-use assets and other long-lived assets. See Note 4 of our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. We believe that it is useful to exclude these charges when assessing the 73 level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. In addition, we believe excluding such costs enhances the comparability between periods. Acquisition-related items. We have incurred costs related to acquisitions, including legal, third-party valuation and due diligence, insurance costs, and one-time retention bonuses for employees of acquired companies. In addition, we periodically record the change to the fair value of contingent consideration related to past acquisitions. We exclude these items when assessing our actual performance and when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. We believe excluding these items allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our core results of operations and those of other peer companies. These measures, however, have certain limitations in that they reflect the exercise of judgment by our management about which expenses are excluded or included and do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statement of operations that are necessary to run our business. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, our financial results determined in accordance with GAAP. We caution investors that amounts presented in accordance with our definition of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP sales and marketing expense, non-GAAP research and development expense, non-GAAP general and administrative expense, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP net income (loss) may not be comparable to similar measures disclosed by other companies because not all companies and analysts calculate these non-GAAP financial measures in the same manner. Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin We define non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin as GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin, respectively, excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring charges, and loss on operating lease assets. Total non-GAAP gross margin represents total non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. Non-GAAP platform gross margin represents non-GAAP platform gross profit as a percentage of platform revenue and non-GAAP professional services and other gross margin represents non-GAAP professional services and other gross profit as a percentage of professional services and other revenue. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP gross profit to non-GAAP gross profit and GAAP gross margin to non-GAAP gross margin for the periods presented: Platform Professional Services and Other Total Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP gross profit $ 536,504 $ 411,985 $ (35,577 ) $ (35,355 ) $ 500,927 $ 376,630 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 5,731 5,694 4,298 4,424 10,029 10,118 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 21,902 21,844 1,786 4,484 23,688 26,328 Restructuring charges 386 1,217 129 2,181 515 3,398 Loss on operating lease assets 5,492 798 2,608 347 8,100 1,145 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 570,015 $ 441,538 $ (26,756 ) $ (23,919 ) $ 543,259 $ 417,619 74 Platform Professional Services and Other Total Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 GAAP gross margin 73 % 71 % (110 )% (108 )% 65 % 61 % Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 1 % 1 % 13 % 14 % 1 % 2 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 3 % 4 % 6 % 14 % 3 % 4 % Restructuring charges % % % 7 % % 1 % Loss on operating lease assets 1 % % 8 % 1 % 1 % % Non-GAAP gross margin * 77 % 76 % (83 )% (73 )% 70 % 68 % *Totals may not foot due to rounding. Non-GAAP Sales and Marketing Expense We define non-GAAP sales and marketing expense as GAAP sales and marketing expense excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring charges and loss on operating lease assets. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP sales and marketing expense to non-GAAP sales and marketing expense for the periods presented: Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP sales and marketing expense $ 253,349 $ 219,994 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes (24,630 ) (21,333 ) Amortization of acquired intangible assets (22,237 ) (22,489 ) Restructuring charges (292 ) (1,674 ) Loss on operating lease assets (7,023 ) (980 ) Non-GAAP sales and marketing expense $ 199,167 $ 173,518 Non-GAAP Research and Development Expense We define non-GAAP research and development expense as GAAP research and development expense excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, acquisition-related items, restructuring charges and loss on operating lease assets. 75 The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP research and development expense to non-GAAP research and development expense for the periods presented: Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP research and development expense $ 263,054 $ 203,534 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes (47,053 ) (34,408 ) Acquisition-related items (250 ) Restructuring charges (991 ) (1,546 ) Loss on operating lease assets (6,837 ) (1,007 ) Non-GAAP research and development expense $ 207,923 $ 166,573 Non-GAAP General and Administrative Expense We define non-GAAP general and administrative expense as GAAP general and administrative expense excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, acquisition-related items, restructuring charges, and loss on operating lease assets. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP general and administrative expense to non-GAAP general and administrative expense for the periods presented: Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP general and administrative expense $ 214,476 $ 135,966 Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes (68,749 ) (39,173 ) Stock-based compensation expense - Co-Founders performance based RSUs (14,980 ) Acquisition-related items (1,933 ) 1,092 Restructuring charges (698 ) (1,564 ) Loss on operating lease assets (17,189 ) (1,725 ) Non-GAAP general and administrative expense $ 110,927 $ 94,596 Non-GAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP operating margin as GAAP loss from operations and GAAP operating margin, respectively, excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring charges, acquisition-related items, and loss on operating lease assets. Non-GAAP operating margin represents non-GAAP income (loss) from operations as a percentage of total revenue. The following table reflects the reconciliation of GAAP loss from operations to non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and GAAP operating margin to non-GAAP operating margin for the periods presented: Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP loss from operations $ (229,952 ) $ (182,864 ) Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 150,461 105,032 Stock-based compensation expense - Co-Founders performance based RSUs 14,980 - Amortization of acquired intangible assets 45,925 48,817 Restructuring charges 2,496 8,182 Acquisition-related items 2,183 (1,092 ) Loss on operating lease assets 39,149 4,857 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 25,242 $ (17,068 ) 76 Fiscal 2025 2024 GAAP operating margin (30 )% (30 )% Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 19 % 17 % Stock-based compensation expense - Co-Founders performance based RSUs 2 % % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 6 % 8 % Restructuring charges % 1 % Acquisition-related items % % Loss on operating lease assets 5 % 1 % Non-GAAP operating margin * 3 % (3 )% * Totals may not foot due to rounding. Non-GAAP Net Income (Loss) We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as GAAP net loss, excluding stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, restructuring charges, acquisition-related items, and loss on operating lease assets, adjusted for the income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses. Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) GAAP net loss $ (239,094 ) $ (195,145 ) Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 150,461 105,032 Stock-based compensation expense - Co-Founders performance based RSUs 14,980 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 45,925 48,817 Restructuring charges 2,496 8,182 Acquisition-related items 2,183 (1,092 ) Loss on operating lease assets 39,149 4,857 Income tax effects related to the above adjustments (1) 439 1,915 Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 16,539 $ (27,434 ) (1) This amount represents adjustments for the current and deferred income tax effects on non-GAAP net income (loss) for the impact of the non-GAAP adjustments above. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less cash used for investing activities for capitalized internal use software and less cash paid for purchases of, and deposits for, property and equipment. We believe that free cash flow is a meaningful indicator of our sources of liquidity and capital requirements that provides information to management and investors in evaluating the cash flow trends of our business. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. Free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Other companies may calculate free cash flow or similarly titled non-GAAP measures differently, which could reduce the usefulness of free cash flow as a tool for comparison. In addition, free cash flow does not reflect mandatory debt service and other non-discretionary 77 expenditures that are required to be made under contractual commitments and does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for any given period. Fiscal 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 37,053 $ (39,702 ) Capitalized internal-use software (17,799 ) (15,743 ) Purchase of property and equipment (3,800 ) (28,354 ) Deposits for property and equipment (518 ) Non-GAAP free cash flow $ 15,454 $ (84,317 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 31, 2025, we had cash and cash equivalents of $441.8 million, which excludes restricted cash of $1.0 million, and $140.0 million available under the Credit Agreement, as defined below. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of checking accounts and money market funds with maturities less than 90 days from the date of purchase. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks set forth in the section titled Risk Factors and the market risks identified in the section titled