Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview ServiceNow is a leading provider of cloud-based solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services across the global enterprise. By applying a service-oriented lens to the activities, tasks and processes that comprise day-to-day work life, we help the modern enterprise operate faster and be more scalable than ever before. Services are any of the varied and frequent transactions across an enterprise between a requester and a provider, such as: a request for a new cell phone; asking about employer benefits; a request to on-board a new employee; reporting a facilities or information technology (IT) problem; or provisioning a new server or application. These transactions can be internal to the enterprise or with outside parties such as customers, suppliers or partners. Typically, many of these interactions are through email, phone or voicemail and are not systematically tracked or are tracked in spreadsheets or other disparate databases. This lack of a single, structured and persistent system to manage all enterprise services reduces efficiencies and limits scalability. For example, when services are delivered through email, providers generally have no systematic view into what causes requests and how to reduce or eliminate them. In addition, the enterprise often gains little insight into team workloads, service quality or how departments are faring against service level agreements. Further, the lack of a single system to manage services within the enterprise can create a fragmentation of tools and databases that is difficult and expensive to manage, leads to poor communication between departments, and hinders or prevents compliance with reporting and other regulatory obligations. To address these issues, the IT industry has developed a standard framework to define and automate IT services. Among its attributes, this model helps enterprises define and structure services and workflows, provide an intuitive user experience and knowledge base, implement service delivery, establish service level agreements and provide analytics. This service model improves IT service quality, efficiency and scalability and is a best practice that can be applied to other departments throughout the enterprise. In 2004, ServiceNow pioneered the cloud-based delivery of this IT service management model. Today, we provide cloud-based service management solutions that address the needs of many departments within an organization including IT, human resources (HR), facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance. Our service management solutions are built on our proprietary service automation platform that also allows customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented applications for use in departments across the enterprise. Our solutions, and the custom solutions built by customers and partners, are empowering enterprises to change the way people work. We also provide business management and IT operations management solutions that facilitate the delivery of services across the enterprise by increasing visibility, simplifying compliance, improving end-to-end supplier accountability, managing costs and integrating automated workflows. Our software applications are delivered via the Internet, or "cloud", through an easy-to-use, consumer-like interface, which means they can be rapidly deployed and easily configured. 1 We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. We sell our solutions primarily through direct sales and to a lesser extent through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. Key Business Benefits Key customer benefits of our services include: Automation. Implementing work through standardized and automated workflows can improve the speed and accuracy of service delivery within the enterprise and increase the amount of work completed. Extensibility and scalability. A common data model and ease of customization and development enable customers to leverage their existing ServiceNow implementations to expand into additional service management applications and functionality across the enterprise. Speed and ease of implementation. A comprehensive set of feature-rich service management applications delivered via the cloud enable rapid and cost-effective implementation of solutions. Governance and compliance. The consolidation of previously disparate applications enables integrated auditing, governance, transparency and reporting. Powerful reporting features deliver visibility into key costs and service performance, including access to key performance indicators (KPIs), benchmarking and executive dashboards. User satisfaction. A mobile-enabled, consumerized storefront, with personalized dashboards and reporting, embedded user self-help and collaboration features, increases user satisfaction and use of service management applications. Reduced infrastructure requirements. We provide and support an infrastructure designed for high-availability and security and which enables us to simplify the installation and management of software updates. Expertise. We provide access to highly skilled professional services, training, technical support, and dedicated peer support engagement programs, including annual user conferences, local user groups, special interest groups, online forums and blogs, collaboration and knowledge sharing for end users, partners and application developers. Our Strategy ServiceNow is changing the way people work by removing dependencies on inefficient manual processes to manage the flow of work within the corporate environment. Our goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud-based solutions to automate service management across the enterprise. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Expand our customer base. We believe the global market for next-generation service management is underserved, and we will continue to make investments to capture market share. To expand our customer base, we will invest in our direct sales force and strategic resellers as well as our infrastructure and capacity, including our data center footprint. Further penetrate our existing customer base . We intend to increase the number of subscription licenses purchased by our current customers as they expand their use of the ServiceNow solution and deploy additional purchased and custom-built applications to manage more services across the enterprise. Expand internationally . We have eight paired data centers on five continents. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, data centers, professional services, customer support and implementation partners. We also plan to increase investment in our existing international locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Continue to innovate and enhance our service offerings . We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. We typically offer multiple upgrades each year that allow our customers to benefit from ongoing innovation. 2 Strengthen our customer community . Our customer community contributes to our success through their willingness to share their ServiceNow experiences with other potential customers. To support our customer community and encourage collaboration, we host our annual user conference, Knowledge. Also, our ServiceNow Community and Share websites provide an online forum for customers, partners and ServiceNow employees to interact and collaborate, as well as share custom applications and other ServiceNow platform content. We will continue to leverage our customer community to expose our existing customers to new use cases and increase awareness of our service management solutions. Develop our partner ecosystem . We intend to further develop our existing partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with strategic resellers, system integrators, global service providers and independent software vendors to provide broader customer coverage, access to senior executives and solution delivery capabilities, as well as extending the breadth of application coverage through complementary partner offerings. Further promote our extensible platform . Our platform is currently being used by customers to address the needs of various departments within an organization, including IT, HR, facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance organizations. We plan to continue to enhance our platform to enable the creation of business applications. Our Cloud Solutions Service Management Our service management solutions help enterprises define services, provide an intuitive service experience, deliver services to requesters, assure service availability and analyze critical service metrics. Although, we provide applications specific to IT, HR, facilities and field services, our service management solutions are also utilized by marketing, legal and finance departments looking to manage services in the contemporary workplace. Each of these solutions includes the foundational capabilities of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Request Management and Cost Management. Service Catalog and Knowledge Base are other capabilities included within our service management solutions that allow organizations to offer easy-to-use solutions that offer a user experience more consistent with that of consumer-oriented applications outside of the enterprise. Employees can now use a single system of engagement to request services such as benefit information from HR, collateral from marketing, contract reviews from legal or purchase orders from finance. IT Service Management solutions give IT managers and administrators end-to-end visibility into processes and infrastructure through a single system of record for IT. This enables IT to consolidate and automate service management processes, increase efficiency, lower costs and devote more time to creating and delivering the consumer-like experiences that users expect. HR Service Management solutions help HR professionals focus their resources on strategic priorities. Using ServiceNow, HR can create a system of engagement for the enterprise that complements existing HR applications. Facilities Service Management solutions help facilities teams reduce the burden of reactive, day-to-day operations and increase productivity, optimize resource utilization, reduce costs and align services with company priorities. Field Service Management solutions ensure that work orders are assigned to the right person, with the right inventory and tools, at the right time. Companies can replace spreadsheets, email and homegrown management tools with a single system of engagement that delivers efficient, fast and effective services. IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management solutions consolidate resource data, including virtualized and cloud infrastructure environment data, into a single system of record. This enables IT to see how resources are performing at all times, automate key processes and take a business-centric approach to service mapping, delivery and assurance. Service Mapping solutions, including ServiceWatch and Discovery, inspect and discover services in operation and map their relationships and dependencies across the technology infrastructure to ensure that IT has visibility into impact that changes in the infrastructure could have on those services. Service Delivery solutions, including Orchestration, Configuration Automation, Configuration Management, and Cloud Provisioning, speed up and automate the delivery of infrastructure and services for the business. 3 Service Assurance solutions, including Event Management, combine the capabilities of event management with analytics to assure business service performance and availability. Business Management Our Business Management solutions help enterprises manage costs, projects, compliance and vendors. Our solutions consolidate business data into a single system of record, enabling enterprises to more effectively align investments, utilize resources, automate management of projects, ensure regulatory compliance and manage business relationships. Financial Management provides a way for IT to gain insight into spending by mapping actual costs to consumption or usage across business services, applications, projects and infrastructure. It allows chief information officers (CIOs) to ensure IT costs are correctly aligned to business goals. Project Portfolio Suite provides the capabilities to plan, organize and manage projects, including associated tasks and resources. Demand Management centralizes strategic requests from the business and streamlines the investment decision process for new products and services. Software Development Lifecycle provides the capabilities to manage the software development and maintenance process, from product inception to deployment. Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) provides clarity into compliance and audit initiatives, helps companies mitigate compliance exposure, and automates the work of organizations rising to the challenge of complex regulatory environments. Vendor Performance Management helps customers manage, evaluate and compare vendors based on predefined criteria. Performance Analytics helps improve services and processes across the enterprise by providing actionable insights on a daily basis. Application Development ServiceNow's CreateNow Development Suite reduces the complexities and inefficiencies of developing applications for service management. Using our pre-built templates optimized for service management applications, departments across the enterprise, such as legal, marketing, HR and finance, can quickly build, test and publish customer-specific service management applications such as request processing, events management and rebate processing. Comprehensive Services We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. These offerings include Professional Services, Education Services and Customer Support. Professional Services . Through an ecosystem of ServiceNow and partner resources, we provide professional services that advise and assist customers with implementation and drive value realization of the ServiceNow platform. Education Services. We offer extensive training services and a certification program for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules. Customer Support. Customers receive free support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing. Our Technology We designed our cloud-based service to support global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our services are focused on: Scalability . Our services are designed to support concurrent user sessions within a global enterprise. We process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base while optimizing transaction processing time. 4 Availability . Our customers are highly dependent on our services for the day-to-day operations of their IT infrastructure. Our services are designed as an always on solution. Security and Compliance . We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. We offer services that have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2 and ISO 27001 third-party attestation. Our U.S. federal services have received a FISMA Moderate Authorization (ATO) attestation that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent. We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web2.0 technologies like HTTPS and XML that give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively. The system is also highly portable and has been deployed across multiple environments including Microsoft Windows and Oracle databases. Unlike many cloud vendors where most customers run on shared infrastructure servers and databases, we operate a unique architecture that provides each customer with their own dedicated application and database processes. This reduces the risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location and version upgrading. We are also investing in enhancements to our cloud infrastructure, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. In limited circumstances, we grant certain customers the right to deploy our subscription service on the customers' own servers. Our architecture gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed on-premises, we define the hardware requirements that the customers must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the service and provide ongoing customer support similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third- party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. In the past year, we made significant investments in direct sales in many markets outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to invest in our direct sales force globally. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, and webinars where customers and partners both participate in and present a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Customers We primarily market our services to large enterprise customers. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments. As of December 31, 2014 , we had 2,725 customers, including more than 25% of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. Backlog Backlog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in deferred revenue. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , we had backlog of approximately $956 million and $608 million , respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals. 5 Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 19 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Data Center Operations We currently run our services from data centers located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Our data centers operate in a mirrored configuration to provide high availability. We plan to add data centers, or expand our existing data center operations, as required to meet regulatory requirements and accommodate growth. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. Total research and development expense was $148.3 million, $78.7 million, and $39.3 million for the years ended in December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Competition The markets in which we compete to manage service across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we face and will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, we are seeking patent protection for our technology. We pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. 6 Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our service offerings. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Companies in our industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We currently face, and we expect we will face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas that alleges that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of seven of BMCs patents. BMC is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. For additional information, see the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of Part I in this Annual Report. Employees As of December 31, 2014 , we had 2,826 full-time employees worldwide, including 894 in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,011 in sales and marketing, 585 in research and development and 336 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect our revenue growth rate to decline, but we may not accurately predict the rate or magnitude of such decline. Our capacity is largely driven by production factors such as facilities, data centers and a trained workforce that require long term investments and expense commitments which we cannot easily adjust in the short term. As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to generate or sustain profitability or positive cash flow from operations. From the year ended June 30, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2014 , our revenues grew from $19.3 million to $682.6 million . We expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity in order to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenue continues to increase, we expect to continue to incur a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) loss during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards and business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in increased costs. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from operations. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our operating results will be harmed. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued financial guidance, or if any forward-looking financial guidance we give does not meet the expectation of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or we fail to meet or exceed any forward-looking financial guidance we have issued, or if any forward-looking financial guidance we give is below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, or which could impact any forward-looking financial guidance we give for any period, include: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers requirements; the number of new employees added; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new services; the length of the sales cycle for our services; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in effective tax rates; general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customers purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services; changes in the average duration of our customer agreements; changes in our renewal and upsell rates; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; and the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses. 8 Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. We face cyber-security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks. If any of these risks occur, our reputation may be harmed, our services may be perceived as not secure, we may lose prospective customers, existing customers may curtail or stop using our services, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive information including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information, proprietary intellectual property and credit card and other sensitive financial information. We do not control or monitor the information that customers process in our services, we are unaware of the type, sensitivity and value of the customer information processed in our services and we do not vary our service offering and security measures due to the content of customer data. We have legal and contractual obligations to protect the confidentiality and appropriate use of customer data. Cyber-security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks could expose us to substantial litigation expenses and damages, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, mitigation expenses and other liability. Additionally, unauthorized persons may obtain access to our own sensitive, proprietary or confidential information or systems including our intellectual property and other confidential business information and our information technology systems. Such access could be used to compromise our competitive position, our ability to deliver our services or our ability to manage and operate our business. The security measures protecting our customers' and our own information and systems could be breached as a result of third party action, employee error or employee misconduct. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could suffer severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or orders, and we may incur significant liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches. Disruptions in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any disruptions in our services could damage our customers' businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we have found defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. We provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may also result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our reputation and business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. 9 We depend on our senior management team and if we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business could be harmed. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud-based infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. If we are not able to enhance our existing service, develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to enhance our services and provide it in a way that is broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and enhance our services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, including increased demand for intuitive and attractive user interfaces, Internet software practices, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. In addition, we must effectively make our services available in additional ways, including on mobile devices. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid developments, our services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete. Our success also depends on our ability to develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our suite of applications for use within IT, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. We are expanding the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT and offerings for small and medium-sized businesses. The success of any enhancement or new application, and the success of our efforts to promote the use of our services for development of custom applications, depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For instance, from time to time we have changed the way that we price and package our services, and we anticipate that we will continue to make periodic adjustments to our pricing and packaging in the future, and prospective or existing customers may not accept any new pricing or services packaging we have adopted or may adopt in the future. In addition, sales of new services may erode sales of our existing similar services. If we are unable to enhance our existing service, successfully develop new applications or promote the use of our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our technology to meet our customers performance and other requirements. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to meet the expanding needs of our customers as their use of our services grows. We expect the number of users and transactions we manage, the amount of data we transfer, process and store, the number of locations from which our services are being accessed, and the number of processes and systems we manage to continue to grow. In the past, a few of our largest customers experienced reduced levels of availability, performance and functionality due to the scale at which they implemented our services. In order to meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue making significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our services and cloud-based infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include databases, applications and server optimizations, network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. In addition, it takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. We are also dependent upon open source and other third-party technologies and may be unable to quickly effect changes to such technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our services and operations to meet the growing needs of our customers, we may not be able to grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce or cancel use of our services, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business and operating results may be harmed. 10 The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The markets in which we compete to manage services across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com, Inc. and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our managements attention, and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments. We have acquired companies in the past and may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their technology is not easily adapted to work with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may: issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; incur large charges or substantial liabilities; encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse technologies, software or business cultures; and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. For example, in July 2014 we completed the acquisition of a privately-held company based in Israel, Neebula Systems Ltd., or Neebula. To succeed with this acquisition, we need to successfully retain Neebulas key personnel and implement Neebulas technology on the ServiceNow platform. We may experience difficulties in this integration due to differences in operations, technology and culture between ServiceNow and Neebula, and other challenges associated with operating a business in a geography in which we did not previously have substantial engineering operations and which is currently involved in regional conflicts. 11 If the market for our technology delivery model develops more slowly than we expect, our growth may slow or stall, and our operating results would be harmed. Use of cloud-based applications to automate and manage service relationships is at an early stage. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise cloud-based solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. In particular, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based solutions. Furthermore, some organizations, particularly large enterprises upon which we are dependent, have been reluctant or unwilling to use cloud-based solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data, the physical location of data centers in which their data is stored and processed, and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. It is possible that various governmental jurisdictions around the world in which we compete will adopt laws regarding access to, the processing of, or the location of storage of, data that prevents or imposes prohibitively expensive hurdles for us to provide our cloud-based solutions to enterprises within such jurisdictions. In addition, if either we or other cloud-based providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based solutions as a whole, including our services, will be negatively impacted. If the adoption of cloud-based solutions does not continue, the market for these solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our operating results. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. From December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, our sales and marketing organization increased from 615 to 1,011 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. Further, new hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories and our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we plan, or at all. Moreover, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing overseas sales and marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to conduct such campaigns. Our business will be harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and their continued performance. We depend on various third parties, such as implementation partners, systems integrators, managed services providers and sales partners in order to grow our business. Our sales efforts have focused on large enterprise customers and there are a limited number of partners with the capacity to provide these customers a significant level of services. In order to continue our growth, we need to recruit these partners and these partners need to devote substantial resources to our solutions. Accordingly, we need to build services, implement partner programs, and provide training and other resources to recruit, retain and enable these partners. Our agreements with partners are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing solutions. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our partners to favor their solutions or otherwise disrupt the relationships we have with our partners. In addition, global economic conditions could harm the businesses of our partners, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the additional resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we may need to establish relationships with additional sales and implementation partners. Further, reliance on third parties exposes us to risk of poor performance and failed customer expectations. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by a third party, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customers dissatisfaction could damage our reputation or ability to obtain additional revenues from that customer or prospective customers. 12 Our business depends substantially on our existing customers purchasing additional subscriptions from us, and renewing their subscriptions upon expiration of the subscription term. Any decline in customer additional purchases or renewals would harm our operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our existing customers expand their use of our service by adding new users and new applications of our service across the enterprise, and renew their subscriptions upon expiration of the subscription contract term. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may not renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of users. Although our renewal rates have historically been high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our subscription service, professional services, customer support, or prices, the prices of competing solutions, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers spending levels. Our growth also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional professional services to our current customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to add more authorized users or fail to purchase additional professional services, our revenues may decline, and our operating results would be harmed. Because our sales efforts are targeted at large enterprise customers, we face longer sales cycles, substantial upfront pre-sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. If our sales cycle lengthens, or if our sales investments do not result in sufficient sales, our operating results could be harmed. We target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers. Because these customers are often making an enterprise-wide decision to deploy our services, sometimes on a global basis, we face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront pre-sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our sales cycle is generally six to nine months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be much longer. Large enterprises often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our services, including whether they need professional services performed by us or a third party for their service management needs, and a comparison of our services to products offered by our competitors. Some of our large enterprise customers initially deploy our services on a limited basis, with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our services widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial pre-sales investment. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront pre-sales investments do not result in sufficient subscription revenues to justify our investments, our operating results could be harmed. We may be unable to develop or obtain intellectual property that provides us with a competitive advantage or prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We have recently begun to seek patent protection for our technology. We may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have, and in the future may, initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses in defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be harmed. We have been, and may in the future be, sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends in part on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or services. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. 13 For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. We filed an answer to the complaint on March 28, 2014 denying the allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses. The court held case management conferences on June 26, 2014, September 4, 2014 and February 5, 2015. The parties are currently conducting discovery. Hewlett-Packard served infringement contentions on July 3, 2014 and November 18, 2014. We served invalidity contentions on January 9, 2015. A claim construction hearing is scheduled for June 12, 2015. Trial is currently scheduled to begin on May 16, 2016. We have filed petitions for inter partes review of all eight asserted patents with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas that alleges that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of seven of BMCs patents. BMC is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. Motions to dismiss and transfer venue are currently pending. BMC served infringement contentions on January 6, 2015. Our invalidity contentions are due March 3, 2015. A claim construction hearing is scheduled for July 10, 2015. Trial is currently scheduled to begin on March 14, 2016. We intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits. These litigation matters are still in their early stages and the final outcome, including our liability, if any, with respect to the claims in the lawsuits, is uncertain. If an unfavorable outcome were to occur in either litigation, the impact could be material to our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations, depending on the specific circumstances of the outcome. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our services or refund fees. Such disputes could also cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates and could cause us to lose potential sales. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our operating results. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A significant portion of the technologies licensed or developed by us incorporate open source software and we may incorporate open source software into other services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our services and technologies. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our services or technologies, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our services. We need to continue to invest in the growth of our worldwide operations by opening new geographic markets. If our required investments in these markets are greater than anticipated, or if our customer growth in these markets does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. We are continuing to expand worldwide and have recently significantly expanded our presence in Brazil and Asia. We have made and will continue to make substantial investments as we enter these and other new geographic markets. These include investments in data centers and cloud-based infrastructure, sales, marketing and administrative personnel and facilities. Often we must make these investments when it is still unclear whether future sales in the new market will justify the investments. In addition, these investments may be more expensive than we initially anticipate. If our required investments are greater than anticipated, or if our customer growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. 14 Sales to customers outside North America expose us to risks inherent in international sales. Because we sell our services throughout the world, we are subject to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in North America. Sales outside of North America represented 32% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014, and we intend to continue to expand our international sales efforts. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. The risks and challenges associated with sales to customers outside North America are different in some ways from those associated with sales in North America and we have a limited history addressing those risks and meeting those challenges. Furthermore, the business conduct and ethical standards of many other countries, including the emerging market countries that we are expanding into, are substantially different and much less rigorous than the United States. The risks and challenges inherent with international sales include: foreign currency fluctuations which may cause exchange and translation losses; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us; compliance with regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers data across international borders, many of which are stricter than the equivalent U.S. laws; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; different or lesser protection of our intellectual property; longer and potentially more complex sales cycles; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; and regional economic and political conditions. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business and results of operations. A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to increased liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our services to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our services to them and to grow or maintain our customer base. 15 Because we recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, downturns or upturns in new sales and renewals will not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have only a small, and perhaps no apparent, impact on our revenue results for that quarter. Such a decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct significant transactions, including revenue transactions and intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our consolidated revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. For example, the U.S. dollar has recently begun to strengthen relative to the Euro and other currencies. If this trend continues, it would have a negative impact on our consolidated revenues. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is a risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could harm our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of earnings and losses in differing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud-based companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure