ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with the (1) unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K dated as of, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), on February 20, 2020 (File No. 001-35580). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, estimate, or continue, and similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, impacts on our business, future financial performance and general economic conditions due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations.html), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. Our free cash flow and billings measures included in the sections entitled Key Business MetricsFree Cash Flow, and Key Business MetricsBillings are not in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our supplemental non-GAAP results, to more fully understand our business. 23 Table of Contents Overview ServiceNows purpose is to make the world of work, work better for people. We believe that people should work the way they want to, so we build applications that help automate existing processes and create efficient, digitized workflows. Our products and services enable the steps of a job to flow naturally across disparate departments, systems and processes of a business. When work flows naturally, great experiences follow. We primarily deliver our software via the Internet as a service through a simple and easy-to-use interface so that we can rapidly deploy our packaged offerings, and customers can easily build their custom applications. In a minority of cases, customers choose to host our software by themselves or through a third-party service provider. We generally offer our services on an annual subscription fee basis, which includes access to the ordered subscription service and related support, including updates to the subscription service during the subscription term. Pricing for our subscription services is based on a number of factors, including duration of subscription term, volume, mix of products purchased, and discounts. We generate sales through our direct sales team and, to a lesser extent, indirectly through resale partners and third-party referrals. We also generate revenues from professional services and for training of customer and partner personnel. We are shifting the focus of our professional services organization from implementation services to strategic advisory and consulting services to accelerate platform adoption and drive customer outcomes. We generally bill our customers annually in advance for subscription services and monthly in arrears for our professional services as the work is performed. A majority of our revenues come from large global enterprise customers. We continue to invest in the development of our services, infrastructure and sales and marketing to drive long-term growth. We increased our overall employee headcount to 12,643 as of September 30, 2020 from 9,929 as of September 30, 2019. In December 2019, a novel strain of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was reported and in January 2020, the World Health Organization (the WHO) declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. In February 2020, the WHO raised the COVID-19 threat level from high to very high at a global level and in March 2020, the WHO characterized the COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant global economic uncertainty, adversely impacted the business of our customers, partners and vendors, and impacted our business and results of operations. As of the filing date, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our business and future financial condition or results of operations remains uncertain. We are continuing to monitor the actual and potential effects of the COVID-19 pandemic across our business. While our revenues, billings and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, along with the seasonality we historically experience, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods, if at all, and could cause our future results of operations to vary significantly from period to period. If we experience an increase in curtailed customer demand, reduced customer spend or contract duration, delayed collections, lengthened payment terms, lengthened sales cycles or competition due to changes in terms and conditions and pricing of our competitors products and services, our business, results of operations and overall financial performance in future periods could be materially adversely affected. The extent and continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including: the duration and spread of the outbreak; government responses, including the effectiveness, extent and duration of mitigation efforts such as shelter in place and similar directives; impact on our customers, sales cycles and ability to generate new business; impact on our customer, industry or employee events; extent of delays in hiring and onboarding new employees mainly in our general and administrative functions; and effect on our partners, vendors and supply chains; all of which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on maintaining business continuity, helping our employees, customers and communities, and preparing for the future and the long-term success of our business. In the first quarter of 2020, we released four Emergency Response Apps to help customers navigate the COVID-19 pandemic management. In the second quarter of 2020, we released Safe Workplace Apps, a four-app suite and dashboard, designed to help companies manage the essential steps for returning employees to the workplace and to support their health and safety. Additionally, we canceled our in-person, annual Knowledge user conference (Knowledge) and replaced it with a digital event experience and cancelled our Financial Analyst Day. In the first quarter of 2020, we also temporarily closed most of our offices and encouraged our employees to work remotely. These changes remain in effect in the fourth quarter of 2020 and could extend into the next year. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure