Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNow was founded on a simple premise: a better technology platform will help work flow better. The companys purpose is to make the world work better for everyone. We help global enterprises across industries, universities and governments to digitize their workflowsthe individual tasks that need to be executed to get a job done. Our technology platform, which we refer to as the Now Platform, enables us to connect systems, silos, departments and processes with digital workflows that are simple and easy to use. We categorize the workflows we provide into four primary areas: Information Technology (IT), Employee, Customer and Creator, as discussed in more detail below. Our IT workflows give IT departments the ability to plan, build, operate and service across the entire IT lifecycle. Our Employee workflows help customers simplify how their employees get the services they need, creating a familiar, consumer-like way to get work done from wherever an employee may beat home, in the workplace or in the field. Our Customer workflows help organizations reimagine the customer experience and increase customer loyalty. Our Creator workflows enable our customers to quickly create, test, and deploy their own applications on the Now Platform. Traditionally, business processes have been automated and embedded across enterprise technology systems from finance to human resources (HR) to sales, customer support and beyond. Over time, these systems have become disconnected, siloed and complex, often limiting flexibility and adaptability and lacking the intuition and empowerment of technologies created for the individual consumer. ServiceNow is changing these limitations. We offer the capability to quickly change how work is done to keep pace with a rapidly changing environment. The Now Platform delivers a simple, user-friendly experience, making work easier, faster and more fulfilling. We believe a better service experience is the ultimate desired outcome of digital transformation. The Now Platform is uniquely positioned to enable our customers digital transformation from non-integrated enterprise technology solutions with manual and disconnected processes and activities, to integrated enterprise technology solutions with automation and connected processes and activities. The transformation to digital operations, enabled by the Now Platform, increases our customers resiliency and security and delivers great experiences and additional value to their employees and consumers. The companys success began with Information Technology Service Management (ITSM), a category in which ServiceNow has become a market leader. Over time, we expanded beyond our ITSM capabilities to meet the needs of our customers expanding digital requirements to modernize technology operations, employee experiences, customer experiences, industry-specific challenges and application development and integration. We are now recognized as a leader for multiple products across our IT, Employee, Customer and Creator Workflows. The Now Platforms task-based orientation allows work to be done with a single, aligned view of every service experience. For example, a new employee uses ServiceNow to complete onboarding tasks with their new employer. The new employee is interfacing through an integrated ServiceNow experience whether tasks originate from ServiceNow or other systems. Similarly, customer service can be executed in a way that solves problems without creating frustration. 1 Table of Contents Over the years, we have expanded our customer base and our customers have expanded their use of the Now Platform. For example, many companies now have multi-year, digital transformation plans, many of which heavily involve introducing uses of additional ServiceNow products and services. From a single, out-of-the-box solution, companies recognize the value of using additional products to strengthen the richness and quality of their data running through the Now Platform. As we help organizations realize more value from the Now Platform and better serve their stakeholders, we do so in a manner that also helps organizations accelerate their environmental, social and governance (ESG) ambitions. To serve the growing focus on ESG, ServiceNow also offers an integrated ESG solution on the Now Platform as part of our IT workflows. ServiceNow strives to help our customers solve their unique challenges, operate on their unique technologies and systems and change at their unique pace. The foundation of our approach to customers and our ambition to be the defining enterprise software company of the 21 st century are grounded in our values. Wow our customers: Customers are the center of our world. We strive to deliver the best customer experiences and innovations. Win as a team: We share the same goals and have clear roles in achieving them. We deliver results as a team and enjoy the journey. Create belonging: Diversity, equity and inclusion are fundamental. Belonging is the breakthrough. We lead with empathy, which means listening and acting to make everyone feel they belong with ServiceNow. Stay hungry and humble : We do not take success for granted. We are always ready to learn and evolve. We grow together, bringing fresh ideas and new perspectives. For all these reasons, our customers trust us with their mission critical operations, and we feel immensely proud that The World Works with ServiceNow. Our Products ServiceNows product portfolio spans four workflowsIT, Employee, Customer and Creatorand are delivered on ServiceNows Platformthe Now Platform. The products under each of our workflows are helping customers connect work across systems and silos to enable great experiences for people. Each year, two platform upgrades are released, each with new standard functionality and new standalone products to further simplify the way our customers work and enhance productivity. 2 Table of Contents The Now Platform The Now Platform is a single-cloud platform with one data model and one architecture, enabling speed, flexibility and innovation that offers a one-stop shop for automation and simplification of manual processes. It is highly flexible, scalable, and extensible. The Now Platform delivers workflows across siloed organizations and systems by connecting them together in a seamless way to unlock productivity and improve experiences for both employees and customers. As the foundation for how we deliver our enterprise-wide digital workflows, the Now Platform integrates with our customers cloud platforms and systems of choice, allowing our customers to deliver workflows across their current and future preferred systems of record and collaboration platforms. The automation of workflows on our platform is enhanced by additional services we offer, such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, robotic process automation, performance analytics, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, encryption and collaboration and low-code/no-code development tools. While every company has a different suite of user interfaces from web-based to mobile to conversation applications, the Now Platform creates a common user experience for customers to manage workflows across all interfaces. The Now Platform also powers three native mobile experiences for everyday work across the enterprise: Virtual Agent, Now Mobile and Mobile Onboarding. Enterprises can take advantage of consumer-like, mobile experiences, such as getting help from human resources or ordering a computer, from our platform. Our goal is to make our customers work lives as simple, easy and mobile-friendly as their personal lives. IT Workflows Our IT Workflows help companies unite IT, risk management, and security operations on a single platform to deliver modern, resilient services aligned to our customers priorities. Our IT products assist IT departments to serve their customers, manage their networks, identify and remediate security vulnerabilities and threats, gain visibility across their IT resources and asset lifecycles, optimize IT costs and reduce time spent on administrative tasks. We enable IT workflows through ITSM, IT Business Management, IT Operations Management, IT Asset Management, Security Operations, and Governance, Risk and Compliance, among other products. Many of these products also enable our Employee and Customer workflows. IT Service Management As our flagship product suite, ITSM defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the IT services that an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. Among ITSMs capabilities are AI, machine learning, predictive intelligence, Virtual Agent, recording incidents, remediating problems, automating routine tasks and requests, performance analytics and continual improvement management capabilities. IT Business Management Our IT Business Management product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customers IT project portfolio. IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management product suite connects a customers physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customers IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. IT Asset Management Our IT Asset Management product automates customers IT software, hardware and cloud asset lifecycles with workflows to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of these IT assets throughout their lifecycles. Security Operations Our security operations product connects with internal and third-party security alerts from a customers infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customers business. 3 Table of Contents Governance, Risk and Compliance Our Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) products help customers manage risk and resilience in real time. Among the GRCs product suites capabilities are policy and compliance management, risk management, including detection and assessment, business continuity management, vendor risk management and operational risk management. Employee Workflows Our Employee workflow products can transform the employee experience and make work better for our customers employees by letting their employees work and collaborate where and how they want, improving productivity and agility. Employee workflow products also help customers be more efficient with their employee resources, staffing and delivery services, streamline employee lifecycle events and increase visibility as workforces continue to be remote. We enable Employee workflows through HR Service Delivery, Safe Workplace Suite, Workplace Service Delivery, and Legal Service Delivery, among other products. HR Service Delivery Our HR Service Delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR Service Delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. Safe Workplace Suite We created a Safe Workplace suite of applications and a dashboard to help companies manage the steps for returning employees to the workplace, assessing both workforce and workplace readiness, contact tracing and documenting employee health and vaccination status. These applications were developed to help companies reopen the workplace and support the health and safety of their employees after emergencies or pandemics, increase engagement, improve productivity and maintain business continuity, all while creating a great user experience for employees. Workplace Service Delivery Our Workplace Service Delivery product keeps our customers workplaces running smoothly with a multi-channel, mobile-enabled solution. With Workplace Service Delivery, employees of our customers automate requests, reservations and repairs to help use space wisely, provide easy access to services, manage requests efficiently and get real-time visibility. Legal Service Delivery Our Legal Service Delivery product consolidates manual tools and modernizes internal legal operations processes to manage legal requests across the enterprise. With Legal Service Delivery, legal teams can gain efficiency, deliver support efficiently with automated responses and get insight into demand with real-time reporting and dashboards. Customer Workflows Customer workflows help drive customer loyalty with connected digital workflows that deliver modern customer experiences. Customer workflows help customers elevate their customer service with enhanced resolution efficiency and improved service quality made possible with workflows, automation, and location-based work tasks management. Customer service departments no longer have to rely on reactive agents searching multiple systems to find a single answer to customer issues. Integrating front-end customer service capabilities with operations and field service resources, our Customer workflow products help create a seamless customer experience from issue to resolution through connected digital workflows that deliver fast support on a customers channel of choice. We enable Customer workflows through Customer Service Management and Field Service Management, among other products. Customer Service Management Our Customer Service Management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates common customer service cases and requests, such as password resets, to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. 4 Table of Contents Field Service Management Our Field Service Management product allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. Creator Workflows Creator workflows help customers build cross-enterprise digital workflow applications fast with a low-code platform that safely delivers agile services at scale. As organizations digitally transform, they need to pivot faster with new processes and business models. This requires faster, more agile execution with more automation delivered through software applications. With Creator Workflows, citizen developers have access to pre-built templates, low-code tools and modular building blocks created by professional developers and the user experience is further enhanced when such apps are used on the same platform they were built. We enable Creator workflows through App Engine and IntegrationHub, among other products. App Engine Our App Engine product empowers enterprise-class low code application delivery with intuitive and intelligent experiences, at speed and scale. With App Engine, customers and third-party developers can extend workflow automation by creating, testing and deploying their own consumer-grade applications that can be scaled from a single department to the entire enterprise. Examples of applications our customers have developed include: an application developed by a company with a large network of seasonal retail stores and offices to track progress and identify issues in opening and closing their seasonal locations, which enabled significant cost savings; an application developed by the IT office of a university that allocated and billed costs associated with IT maintenance, allowing the university to retire multiple legacy software systems; and an application developed by a mortgage company to ensure that loan files were complete and accurate prior to packaging and selling the loans to investors. IntegrationHub Our IntegrationHub product enables anyone who creates an application on the Now Platform to extend workflows into third-party products, eliminating the need for other integration tools to connect a ServiceNow workflow with other software platforms. Integration hub provides a framework that allows developers to create and publish integrations for use by anyone. The Now Platform provides connectors to hundreds of products and integrations in the ServiceNow Store. Industry Solutions We offer industry solutions to better address the unique needs of specific industries. We offer industry solutions for financial services; telecommunications, media and technology (TMT); healthcare and life sciences; and manufacturing. We intend to offer other industry specific solutions in addition to our other workflow products. With Financial Services Operations, financial services customers can unite their front, middle and back offices to improve customer and employee experiences. With Telecommunications Service Management and Order Management, TMT customers can scale their order management process, launch services quickly, enhance customer care, automate service assurance and gain real-time data visibility. With Healthcare and Life Sciences Service Management, healthcare and life sciences customers can offer consumer-grade experiences, unlock productivity and streamline operations. With Manufacturing Connected Workforce and Operational Technology Management, manufacturing customers can empower their workforce with digital tools and knowledge to improve efficiency and create a single system of action for their operational environment, improve uptime and drive outcomes across their operations. Professional Services Our Professional Services are offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners to help customers maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Our professional services include process design, implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. With our Now Value methodology as the foundation for customer success, our services bring together our experts and leading practices enabling our customers to create value and drive customer outcomes as they embark on enterprise digital transformations through the use of our platform. Our training services include programs for all of our products. Customer Support Customers receive standard and enhanced support around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We will start offering customer support on a subscription-based model and we offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online case creation. 5 Table of Contents Our Technology and Operations We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. We host our full software-as-a-service experience on our own private cloud and use public cloud service providers for customers that are primarily in highly regulated markets. Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States, and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies. We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. We offer customers the option to have their EU-hosted data handled exclusively within the EU. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements. While there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected the third-party alternative. The standard and enhanced customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our product offerings and services through subscription services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed services providers and resale partners. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including regional forums which we call Now at Work, where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to educate them on industry best practices and help accelerate their success. We continue to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources, post-sales customer support resources, strategic alliances and partnerships, implementation partners and advisory councils. We also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Partner Ecosystem In addition to our global direct sales organization, we also have a strong and growing ecosystem of partners that helps accelerate our customers digital transformation initiatives and deliver customer value at scale. Our partners play a critical role in helping companies digitally transform their business. Our industry and workflow capabilities paired with our partners industry and functional domain experience help customers of all sizes. Together with our partners, we offer industry and domain-focused solutions at scale and are accelerating digital transformation as we help companies drive new approaches in engaging their end users and employees. Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers, and we host and support large, enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 7,400 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, telco, education and consumer products. The portion of our revenues generated by sales to government customers has also increased over time. See Risk FactorsDoing business with the public sector, including U.S. governments and agencies, heavily-regulated organizations and governments globally, subjects us to risks related to the government procurement process, regulations, and contracting requirements for additional information about our sales to government customers. 6 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and validation of our solutions. We focus on innovating and developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. Using emerging technologies, we can anticipate customer demands and then bring new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to broaden our platform capabilities, strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies. Acquisitions and Investments In addition to our own research and development investments, we have made strategic acquisitions and investments and will continue to assess opportunities to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. Our focus is on building out our platform and products through both organic investments to support customer needs and acquisitions of talent and enhanced capabilities. For example, our larger acquisitions in 2021 focused on bringing development and operations observability and additional AI capabilities to the Now Platform and across our suite of products. Competition As customers accelerate their digital transformation plans and digital operation initiatives, they are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their information technology environments. The Now Platform is designed to meet customers demands by seamlessly connecting workflows across siloed organizations and systems in a way that unlocks productivity, improving experiences for both employees and customers and delivering real business outcomes. Our technology platform offers solutions that are complementary to the offerings of many enterprise software vendors; we believe that we do not need those vendors to lose for us to win. We work directly with product and service offerings from a broad range of companies including some of the largest in the world, and continuously increase our strategic alliances with many of these companies as we expand our integrations for customers. However, as we and those vendors grow, we may find ourselves in competition with solutions and alternative approaches to solving customer needs, including: Enterprise application software vendors . We designed the Now Platform to quickly integrate with, and complement the performance of well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle, SAP, Salesforce, and Workday. Customers may choose to work directly with their application software vendors to improve integrations and create connected workflows. New technologies and entrants . Markets are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. New technologies and competitors are entering the markets to solve similar problems in different ways, intensifying competition. Customers may choose alternative technologies to improve integrations and create connected workflows. In-house solutions . Many customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses. Customers may choose to work with their internal IT departments or other personnel to build custom workflow solutions and integrations. Cloud-based vendors . As businesses increasingly utilize public cloud and software-as-a-service (SaaS)-based offerings, they are adopting a hybrid (on-premise and off-premise) approach for their existing and new compute workloads. As a result, our services will need to increasingly compete for customers hybrid IT workloads with off-premises public cloud and SaaS-based offerings. Additionally, our offerings may compete with offerings from various public cloud providers. Many of these cloud providers are partnering with on-premise hardware vendors to deliver their cloud platform as an on-premise solution. 7 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of U.S. and international copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. In certain of our partnership arrangements, our partners may develop technology on the Now Platform that may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property rights that we agree to with the partner. We continue to grow our global patent portfolio and IP rights that relate to our platform, applications, services, research and development and other activities. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 2,150 U.S. and foreign patents, including patents acquired from third parties, and over 850 pen ding patent applications. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or other IP right or group of related patents or IP rights. We file patent applications to protect our IP and have and may continue to acquire additional patents, patent portfolios, or patent applications. See Risk FactorsLawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results and Risk FactorsOur intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results for additional information. Environmental, Social and Governance We operate our business and global impact strategy consistent with our purpose to make the world work better for everyone. Through our global impact strategy, we formalized existing programs and started new initiatives intended to make our business, our communities and the world more equitable and sustainable. Our strategy focuses on areas where our business can drive positive change across ESG by addressing various ESG risks and opportunities. Our Nominating and Governance Committee oversees our ESG activities, programs and disclosures, our Audit Committee oversees our processes, procedures and validation related to our ESG disclosures and our Compensation Committee oversees human capital management. In April 2021, we issued our inaugural Global Impact Report to provide insights into the ESG areas where we are focusing our efforts. For environmental, we are working towards sustaining our planet by championing a net-zero environment. For governance, we are acting with integrity by building trust through ethical, transparent and secure business practices. For social, we are creating equitable opportunity to make work more equitable, accessible and rewarding for all people. Additional information about our social initiatives is discussed below in Human Capital Management. In September 2021, we announced our goal to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. In October 2021, we announced our integrated ESG solution to help customers activate their ESG strategy. In November 2021, we became a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for North America. Human Capital Management Our People Strategy Our People Strategy is pivotal to our goal of becoming the defining enterprise software company of the 21 st century. Our People Strategy is designed to help us execute against our business strategy, while living our best lives, doing our best work, and fulfilling our purpose together. We aim to attract, recruit, develop and retain the best, most diverse talent, celebrating the diversity and differences that drive our innovation and creativity. We are committed to a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work environment that enables our people to grow themselves, grow their teams, and grow the business with the mission to make the world work better for everyone. Our People Strategy is based on two foundational principles and three key pillars. Foundational principles We must always honor ServiceNows authentic culture and purpose as we continue to grow. We must ensure that our People Strategy is informed by data and insights as we strive to scale efficiently and make informed and unbiased decisions. 8 Table of Contents Key pillars Scale and Innovation: We need to build and innovate around a talent engine that attracts, grows, and retains the best people who will drive our business and mission forward. Our talent engine puts our people at the center, and is rooted in processes, data and systems that allow us to be efficient and cost effective. Inclusive Employee Experience: We need to foster an inclusive culture in which all of our people feel a deep sense of belonging and can be their authentic self. The experience our employees have at ServiceNow is a critical factor in retaining and attracting top talent. Growth and Development: We know from our employee surveys that our people have a deep desire for learning opportunities that will help them grow as individuals and as teams, and ultimately, help them grow our business. As a result, growth and developmentfrom early-in-career talent to senior leadersare critical aspects of our People Strategy. Our Culture ServiceNows culture is grounded in our values, first discussed above. We live our culture by regularly listening to our people and gathering feedback directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally. We listen through our Employee Voice Surveys (EVS), which measures and analyzes employee engagement, including on such topics as inclusion and belonging, learning and development, recognition, pay, and well-being. EVS insights are used to action plan at all levels of the organization and inform the assessment of our human capital management approach and its alignment with our company purpose and business strategy. We also listen by gaining insights across the employee lifecycle through onboarding, exit, and other check-in surveys. Among other things, our listening in 2021 gave us invaluable insights into ways we could best support employees through the COVID-19 pandemic and has fueled our Future of Work strategy and policies. As a result, we earned several external recognitions in 2021 that speak to our strong culture including from the Fortune Future 50, the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For and the Great Place to Works 100 Best Workplaces for Parents. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) Creating Belonging is one of our four company values. We expect each of our people to live our values both inside and outside of the work environment. We have several initiatives focused on recruiting, learning and development, and culture to weave DE&I throughout our talent processes to drive sustainable progress as we strive to create a more diverse, equitable and inclusive culture. Within ServiceNow, we support multiple Belonging Groups for women, racial and ethnic minorities, military veterans, people with disabilities, people of different faiths, and people who identify as LGBTQI+. These groups are intended to give employees a safe space and help support our culture and community-building efforts across the company. We also publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics in the various reports we issue that include information on gender, race, and ethnic minority representation in our U.S. employee population. We also create belonging in our communities. Our NextGen Professional Program, a digital skills program building the next generation of ServiceNow certified professionals (NextGen), is creating generational, diverse talent engines for our customers and partners. This program builds critical skillsets for participants, many of whom are traditionally marginalized by the technology industry. In addition, our partnership with Benedict College in South Carolina is deepening our relationships with the historically black colleges and universities (HBCU) community. Further, ServiceNows $100 million Racial Equity Fund was launched in January 2021, designed to drive more sustainable wealth creation by funding homeownership, entrepreneurship, and neighborhood revitalization within black communities in 10 regions across the United States. It was fully deployed in December 2021. Additionally, in 2021, the employees of ServiceNow volunteered a total of approximately 19,900 hours and donated a total of approximately $2 million. Our corporate giving, including grants, matching donations and rewards, totaled approximately $10 million. Total Rewards Our total rewards philosophy has at its core the goal of attracting, rewarding, and retaining top talent to help us execute our strategy and mission. We believe in competitive pay practices and a pay-for-performance culture. In addition to base salary, all our employees are eligible to participate in our annual cash bonus plan or in our sales commission plan. In order to attract and retain the best talent, we have a broad-based discretionary equity program and an employee stock purchase plan, which enables employees to participate in the success of our company. Our employees enjoy a competitive benefits offering that focuses on physical, mental, and financial well-being. 9 Table of Contents Pay Equity Everyone deserves to be treated fairly and respectfully. We believe there should be equity across the entire talent ecosystem from hiring through career advancement. To achieve that, we continue to build and scale equitable people practices that foster inclusive and fair outcomes for all employees. This includes pay equity. Because pay equity is so dynamic at a high-growth company like ours, we manage it on an ongoing basis and do regular analyses and adjustments, as warranted. We are proud that our process led us to achieve systematic pay equity as of October 20, 2021, our latest company-wide analysis, and helps ensure that we maintain pay equity on an ongoing basis. Well-being and Safety ServiceNow is committed to supporting employee well-being and safety while they are at work and in their personal lives. At the outset of the pandemic, we quickly adopted a company policy encouraging all employees to work remotely and closed all of our offices (including our headquarters), except for certain critical positions. Throughout 2020 and 2021, we took a wide variety of measures to protect the health and well-being of our global employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, including implementing a pandemic medical leave policy, providing a one-time, wellness stipend and offering employees the choice to work remote. We also hosted a series of speakers to help employees navigate through the challenging time. In 2021, as COVID-19 peaked in countries across the world, ServiceNow responded. For example, during the largest wave of the pandemic in India in the spring of 2021, ServiceNow provided our employees based in India on-campus vaccination drives, virtual information sessions with doctors, and other COVID-19 related medical benefits. In addition to programs relating to COVID-19, our standard, comprehensive benefits package covers many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs. From June to September 2021, we offered additional time-off with recharge half-day Fridays to further support the well-being of our global employees. Learning and Development Our people have a deep desire to learn and grow. Our learning and development programs are designed to grow self, grow team, grow business. In addition to the extensive functional learning program run by individual business units that focus on technical skills and capabilities, our global Learning and Development program is focused on enabling all our people from our early-in-career talent who have access to programs that help them plan for professional growth and financial success to our more tenured leaders who have access to programs like Future Readiness, led by Harvard Business Professor Frances Frei, focusing on the importance of inclusive leadership, strategy and trust in the new world of workto grow and be the best individual contributors, managers and leaders they can be. New Ways of Working In October 2021, we announced our new Future of Work policy to support our people as they adapt to new ways of working that shift paradigms, embrace flexibility, promote inclusion, and drive innovation. Under this policy, beginning in 2022, the majority of our employees are in a workplace three days or fewer a week, which provides them flexibility to organize their schedules. Our flexible working environment will enable us to attract, recruit and retain the best talent and we believe will only serve to strengthen our company. Our fully-remote workforce is also expected to continue to increase, allowing us to tap into different, more diverse talent, who are not geographically close to a ServiceNow workplace. Workforce Metrics As of December 31, 2021, we employed 16,881 people on a full-time basis, 9,341 in the United States and 7,540 internationally. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers councils and have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations/sec-filings.html as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Table of Contents Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations.html), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, including our website and social media, to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we make available on our website and the social media channels listed on our website. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties under Risk Factors Summary and the more detailed descriptions immediately following the summary, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many risks affect more than one category, and the risks are not in order of significance or probability of occurrence because they have been grouped by categories. Our stock price could decline due to any of these risks. Risk Factors Summary This summary of risks below is intended to provide an overview of the risks we face. Important information is included in the body of each risk factor that cannot be substituted for by reviewing only the summary Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to data and the Internet may adversely affect our business. Doing business with the public sector, including U.S. governments and agencies, heavily-regulated organizations and governments globally, subjects us to risks related to government procurement processes, regulations, and contracting requirements. If we fail to comply with applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, export control or global trade laws, we could be subject to penalties and civil and/or criminal sanctions and our business could be materially adversely affected. We participate in intensely competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. If we fail to innovate in response to rapidly evolving technological and market developments and customer needs, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on our network of partners for an increasing portion of our revenues, and if these partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products may be limited, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, our products may slow the adoption of our latest technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide services, decrease customer satisfaction, and adversely impact future product sales. As more of our sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, our sales cycle may become longer and more expensive and we may encounter pricing pressure and implementation and configuration challenges. As we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our managements attention and result in additional shareholder dilution. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business If we or our third-party service providers experience an actual or perceived cyber-security event, our platform may be perceived as not being secure and we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. If we lose key members of our management team or employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our compensation costs will increase and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. Lawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to possible litigation. Various factors, including our customers business, integration, migration, compliance and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. Risks Related to the Financial Performance or Financial Position of Our Business 12 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Because we generally recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, a decrease in new subscriptions or renewals during a reporting period may not be immediately reflected in our operating results for that period. As our business grows, we expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline. Changes in our effective tax rate or disallowance of our tax positions may adversely affect our financial position and results. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Risks Related to General Economic Conditions The extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic will continue to impact our business and future results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. Natural disasters, including climate change, and other events beyond our control could harm our business. Global economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could harm our financial results. Risks Related to Our 2030 Notes and 2022 Notes Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows from operations. The conditional conversion feature of the 2022 Notes may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the 2022 Notes and our common stock. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the 2022 Note Hedge. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and could subject us to litigation. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns will be limited to changes in our stock price. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law, 2030 Notes or 2022 Notes might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management and, therefore, depress our stock price. Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to data and the Internet may adversely affect our business. National and local governments or agencies have adopted, and may continue to adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium and data sovereignty or residency requirements concerning the location of data centers and support services. As a cloud-based service provider, we optimize performance of our products and services by utilizing data centers located in, and support provided from, different jurisdictions. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the collection, use, sharing, transfer or other processing of data, including personal data, could affect our ability to develop our products and services to maximize their utility, as well as our customers ability to use data or share data with service providers. Such changes may restrict our ability to use, store or otherwise process data of our customers in connection with providing and supporting our services. In some cases, this could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers ability to deploy our services globally. Compliance with, and other obligations imposed by, existing and upcoming laws globally, including Europe and state specific privacy laws in the United States (US), global trends to regulate the use of AI, the ruling of the European Court of Justice in Schrems v. Facebook Ireland and interpretations of that ruling by regulators and customers, recommendations issued by the European Data Protection Board, new Standard Contractual Clauses issued by the European Commission, and other privacy, data residency, sovereignty and transfer laws, regulations and standards (including self-regulatory standards) may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices and/or policies, may limit the development, use and adoption of our services, and could reduce overall demand for our services. Laws or regulations related to the use of AI technology may impact our ability to use certain data for developing our products and may also become an impediment to the adoption of our products for customers regulated by such laws and regulations. Recently we began offering a European Union (EU) centric services delivery model, by which customers may elect to receive support from EUbased ServiceNow teams, with an EU, cloudhosted digital workflow solution. This offering required a significant investment in financial and human resources, and we may see similar requests for local solutions in other territories. In addition, actual or perceived non-compliance could result in proceedings or investigations against us by regulatory authorities or others, lead to significant fines, damages, orders or reputational harm and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition 13 Table of Contents and operating results. Changes in our developed or acquired products and how such products utilize data could also alter or increase our compliance requirements. As a result, our innovation and business drivers in developing or acquiring new and emerging technologies and the demand for our products could be impacted. Doing business with the public sector, including U.S. governments and agencies, heavily-regulated organizations and governments globally, subjects us to risks related to government procurement processes, regulations, and contracting requirements. We provide products and services to the U.S. federal, state and local governments and heavily-regulated organizations directly and through our partners. We have made, and may continue to make, significant investments to support future sales opportunities in various government sectors. This includes obtaining and maintaining additional cloud security authorizations in the US for the ServiceNow Government Community Cloud, such as the U.S. Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) High Provisional Authority to Operate (P-ATO) from the Joint Authorization Board, and the U.S. Department of Defense Security Requirements Guide Impact Level 4 P-ATO for cloud computing by the Defense Information Systems Agency. We have also made significant investments to obtain security authorizations and certifications outside the US. However, government certification requirements may change, or we may be unable to achieve or sustain one or more government certification or authorization, including those mentioned above. As a result, if such requirements change, our ability to sell into the government sector could be restricted until we meet any revised requirements. A substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities in the US have been made indirectly through our distributors, resellers or service provider partners. Doing business with government entities presents a variety of risks. The procurement process for governments and their agencies is highly competitive, time-consuming and may be subject to political influence and may involve different rules and conditions on the offering or pricing of products and services. We incur significant up-front time and expense, which subjects us to additional compliance risks and costs, without any assurance that we (or a third-party distributor, reseller or service provider) will win a contract. Beyond this, demand for our products and services may be adversely impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability that in any given fiscal cycle may be reduced or delayed, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown or changes to government policy. Further, if we or our partners are successful in receiving a contract award, that award could be challenged during a bid protest process. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. Even if a bid protest were unsuccessful, the delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our customers also include non-U.S. governments, to which government procurement risks similar to those present in U.S. government contracting and regulatory compliance also apply, particularly in certain emerging markets where our customer base is less established. We have seen challenges to successful awards through bid protest procedures in jurisdictions outside the US. As our non-US government business grows, we may see an increase in bid protests as part of the standard government procurement legal procedures that exist in many jurisdictions. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, public sector customers may have contractual, statutory or regulatory rights to terminate current contracts with us or our third-party distributors or resellers for convenience or due to a default, though such risk may be assumed by such third-party distributor or reseller. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to a default, we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services or be precluded from doing further business with government entities. Further, we are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, or performance of government contracts that give public sector customers substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. These may include rights with respect to price protection, refund and setoff, the accuracy of information provided to the government, contractor compliance with supplier diversity policies, and other obligations that are particular to government contracts. These obligations may apply to us and/or our third-party resellers or distributors whose practices we may not control. Such parties non-compliance could impose repercussions with respect to contractual and customer satisfaction issues. In addition, governments routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with these requirements. If, from an audit, it is determined that we have failed to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price 14 Table of Contents reduction clauses, fines, and suspensions or debarment from future government business, all of which may cause us to suffer reputational harm. Further, we are increasingly doing business in heavily regulated industries, such as the financial services, telecommunication media and television and health care industries. Current and prospective customers in such industries may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements toward third-party vendors that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. In addition, customers in these heavily-regulated industries often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products and practices. If one or more customer determines that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business. If we fail to comply with applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, export control or global trade laws, we could be subject to penalties and civil and/or criminal sanctions and our business could be materially adversely affected. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we will inevitably do more business with large enterprises and the public sector in countries that are perceived to have heightened levels of public sector corruption. Increased business in countries perceived to have heightened levels of corruption could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability from our business operations. We have implemented and continue to update our compliance program but there is a risk that our employees, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, could take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. In addition, we are subject to global trade laws that apply to our worldwide operations, including restrictions on conducting business in certain restricted countries or with certain entities or individuals. Any violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the UK Bribery Act, other applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, export control or global trade laws by our employees or third-party intermediaries could result in regulatory investigations and whistleblower complaints, which could subject us to significant risks such as adverse media coverage and/or severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results, and prospects. We participate in intensely competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for digital workflow products and offerings matures and new technologies, in-house solutions and competitors enter the market, we find ourselves increasingly competing with solutions and alternative approaches to solving customer needs or experiencing reluctance or unwillingness from customers to migrate away from their current solutions. Further, as our offerings have become more widely adopted and successful in the market, more competitors are developing competing offerings. For example, while the Now Platform was designed to quickly integrate with and offers solutions that are complementary to the offerings of many well-established systems that traditionally operate as systems of record, competition in this space has been increasing. Some of the companies operating these systems of record offer, or plan to offer, workflow solutions similar to ours. Additionally, sources of alternative solutions and approaches include those provided by: enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle, SAP, Salesforce and Workday; new technology vendors and entrants; in-house solutions of current and prospective customers; and cloud-based vendors. Some of our existing competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition and scale, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater financial, technical and resources than we do. Competitors and new entrants may be able to respond more quickly and effectively to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. They may introduce new technology, solve similar problems in different ways or more effectively utilize existing technology that reduces demand for our services. They may utilize acquisitions, integrations or consolidations to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality or other advantages. Systems of record operators may attempt to create technology solutions that would prevent our systems from integrating with theirs. Enterprise software application vendors may reduce the price of or offer free-of-charge competing products, services or subscriptions creating pricing pressures, or bundle them with their other offerings causing our offerings to appear relatively more expensive. Smaller competitors, new technology vendors and new entrants may also accelerate pricing pressures in the various markets in which we compete. Additionally, companies may expand their services to compete with our services, or we may shift our products and services to compete with current and future competitors in adjacent markets. They may invest in industry-specific solutions that claim to provide a unique solution for that industry. We have expanded and expect to continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets and industries, the use of our platform by developers and generally in low-code/no-code capabilities. As a result, we expect increasing competition from companies focused on these other areas. Also, as 15 Table of Contents customers increasingly adopt a hybrid (on-premise and off-premise) approach for their IT workloads, our cloud services may fail to address evolving customer requirements, which could cause a decline in demand for our services and for us to experience lower growth. Competition from cloud-based vendors may increase as they partner with on-premise hardware providers to deliver their cloud platform as an on-premise solution. Further, the flexibility of future of work models may reduce entry barriers in the markets we operate or usher a new wave of innovation, increasing competition from new entrants and technologies and existing competitors. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully. Competition could result in reduced sales and margins, losses or failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. If we fail to innovate in response to rapidly evolving technological and market developments and customer needs, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. We compete in markets that continue to evolve rapidly. The pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their purchases on digital technologies and shift to modern cloud-based infrastructure and agile ways of working. As digital transformation accelerates across the enterprise, capabilities such as AI, machine learning, hyper automation, low-code/no-code application development, system observability, database scalability, consumer-grade user experiences, collaboration, Internet-connected devices, security, cryptography, internal software development operations, and application and service awareness become increasingly relevant to customers evolving needs. Our customers and prospective customers are either facing competing imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or are built on fully digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies. Accordingly, to compete effectively, we must: identify and innovate in the right emerging technologies, accurately predict our customers changing digital transformation needs, priorities and adoption practices, including their technology infrastructures and buying and budgetary practices, invest in and continually optimize our own technology platform so that it continues to meet the very high performance expectations of our customers, successfully deliver new, scalable platform and database technologies and products to meet these needs and priorities, efficiently integrate with other technologies within our customers digital environments, expand our offerings into industries and to buyers who are not familiar with our offerings, profitably market and sell products to companies in markets where our sales and marketing teams have less experience, successfully shift to a subscription-based, services model and sell such services; effectively secure our platform, data and customers data, and effectively deliver, directly or through our partner ecosystem, the digital transformation process planning, IT systems architecture planning, and product implementation services that our customers require to be successful. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position, strategic relevance and business prospects may be harmed. Further, we may make significant investments in changing the way we offer our products or services, such as starting the shift to a subscription-based model for support services, in response to evolving customer needs. Customers may be dissatisfied with the change in the manner and scope of how the services are delivered and the resulting change in the pricing model and may resist or be slow to adopt changes to our offerings, all of which may adversely impact our ability to compete. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Sales outside of North America represented 36% and 35% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues outside the US. The failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and subjects us to different regulatory, political and economic risks from those in the US. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers, geographic specific service delivery models, advisory councils, cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, partnership arrangements, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments. We may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new large enterprise customers, a factor affecting our growth, has been generally lower in territories where we are less established and where there may be increased or changing regulations and operational and IP risks, as compared to our more established locations. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including hiring qualified sales management personnel, penetrating the target market, anticipating and ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and developments, and managing foreign operations in such locales. Risks inherent with making our products and services available in international markets include without limitation: compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, requirements to have local partner(s), local entity ownership limitations, technology transfer or sharing requirements, data residency and transfer laws and regulations, privacy and data protection laws and regulations, which may increase operational costs and restrictions; 16 Table of Contents compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and anti-corruption laws, including, but not limited to, the UK Bribery Act and the FCPA; the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our local employees or business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us or damage to our reputation; the risk that we will fail to meet the requirements of the rules and regulations relating to government or other public sector contracting; longer and potentially more complex sales and accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; tax treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause transactional and translational remeasurement losses; potential changes in international trade policies, tariffs, agreements and practices, including the adoption and expansion of formal or informal trade restrictions or regulatory frameworks favoring local competitors; potential threatening state-sponsored actions, including cybersecurity threats directed at local data centers, customers or end-users; local governmental direction, business practices and/or cultural norms that may favor local competitors; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; and natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or pandemics. If we are unable to manage these risks, if our required investments in these international markets are greater than anticipated, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing sales in emerging markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on our network of partners for an increasing portion of our revenues, and if these partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products may be limited, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. An increasing portion of our revenues is generated by sales through our network of partners, including managed service providers and resellers. Increasingly, we and our customers rely on our partners to provide professional services, including customer implementations, and there may not be enough qualified implementation partners available to meet customer demand. While we provide our partners with training and programs, including accreditations and certifications, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently. In addition, new partners may require extensive training and may require significant time and resources to achieve productivity. Our partners may subject us to lawsuits, potential liability, and reputational harm if, for example, any of our partners misrepresent the functionality of our platform or products to customers, fail to perform services to our customers expectations, or violate laws or our corporate policies. In addition, our partners may utilize our platform to develop products and services that could potentially compete with products and services that we offer currently or in the future. Concerns over competitive matters or IP ownership could constrain these partnerships. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of partners, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their service delivery, our ability to sell our products and efficiently provide our services may be impacted, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, our products may slow the adoption of our latest technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide services, decrease customer satisfaction, and adversely impact future product sales. We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with actual or perceived quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introducing our products. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed. As more of our sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, our sales cycle may become longer and more expensive and we may encounter pricing pressure and implementation and configuration challenges. As we target more of our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, we may face heightened costs, longer sales cycles, greater competition and less predictability in completing some of our sales. With such customers, their decision to use our services may be an enterprise-wide decision. Such sales require considerable time for the customer to evaluate and test our platform prior to making a purchasing decision, require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our services, as well as addressing concerns regarding data security, compliance with privacy and data protection laws and regulations of prospective customers with international operations or whose own customers operate internationally. In addition, larger enterprise customers may demand more configuration, integration services and features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, 17 Table of Contents driving up costs and time required to complete sales and diverting our own sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions. Large enterprise customers may be switching from legacy on-premises solutions when purchasing our products, and may rely on third parties with whom we do not have relationships when making purchasing decisions. If we fail to effectively manage these risks associated with sales cycles and sales to larger enterprise customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be affected. As we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our managements attention and result in additional shareholder dilution. We have acquired or invested in companies and technologies as part of our business strategy and will continue to evaluate and execute potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of or investments in businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. We have and will continue to enter relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings, go-to-market and sales efforts, functionality or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Although we conduct reasonably extensive due diligence with each of the entities we engage for a strategic transaction, our efforts may not reveal every material concern with respect to the target entity or our assumptions surrounding the resulting combination. These strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including: assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies; failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; potential adverse tax consequences; disruption to our business and diversion of management attention and other resources; potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers; dependence on acquired technologies or licenses for which alternatives may not be available to us without significant cost or complexity; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; introducing increased complexity and burden to maintain the technology platform or introducing vulnerabilities or threats by integrating acquired technologies; increased data security or privacy compliance requirements from integrating the acquired technology or company; impairment to our investments if our investees are unable to obtain future funding on favorable terms or at all; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. In addition, we have and may continue to pay cash and may have to incur debt or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or our stock price. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing shareholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect our stock price. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business If we or our third-party service providers experience an actual or perceived cyber-security event, our platform may be perceived as not being secure and we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, which may include personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and, in some cases, government information. While we have security measures and a data governance framework in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may contain legacy code vulnerabilities, have limited implementation or be breached because of employee error or intentional action or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals or foreign state actors, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our instances and ultimately our customers data or our data, IP and other confidential business information. For example, third parties have attempted to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information or to gain access to our data or our customers data, and we have been the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Further, we have experienced increased cyberattacks and security challenges as the growing number of employees, vendors and other third parties that remotely access our systems increases our attack surface. We have also seen an increase in cyberattack volume, frequency, and sophistication driven by the global enablement of remote workforces. Computer malware, ransomware, viruses, hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become 18 Table of Contents more prevalent in our industry, and they, or attempts, have occurred on our and our third-party service providers systems in the past and may occur again on these systems in the future. The frequency and sophistication of these malicious attacks have increased, and it appears that cyber crimes and cyber criminal networks, some of which may be state-supported, have been provided substantial resources and may target U.S. enterprises or our customers and their use of our products. In addition, we have established extensive development and testing environments for our engineers developing new products and features. Security protocols in those environments have necessarily been less rigorous than in environments housing customer data, but a vulnerability or security defect developed in that environment could become incorporated in code imported to our environments housing customer data. Similarly, in the unique circumstances where customer data may be utilized in developer environments for testing or learning, that data may be at greater risk. Because techniques used to sabotage, obtain unauthorized access to systems or prohibit authorized access to systems change frequently and generally may not be detected until successfully launched against a target, we have been and may continue to be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. This has included and may continue to include underlying infiltration of pre-existing systems, including those of our third-party service providers or customers, perpetrated by more sophisticated or state-supported attackers, including foreign cybersecurity attacks on U.S. technology companies identified in late 2020. It may also include exploitation of vulnerabilities in third party or open source software code that may be incorporated into our own or our customers systems, such as the vulnerability in the Java logging library known as log4j identified in late 2021 that affected many in our industry. The occurrence of these and other more sophisticated or state-supported attack campaigns may increase as geopolitical tensions and intermittent warfare escalate outside of the US. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures while meeting customer expectations as to the performance of our systems; however, as cyber-security threats develop and grow more complex over time, we will continue to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure, but a residual risk may remain despite our preventative efforts. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, service level agreement claims, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs and operational consequences of paying to access data, investigating, remediating, complying with notice obligations and implementing additional measures designed to prevent actual or perceived security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Further, in most instances, our customers administer access to the data held in their particular instance for their employees and service providers. While we offer tools and support, customers are not required to utilize them and may suffer a cyber-security event on their own systems, unrelated to our own, and allow a malicious actor to obtain access to the customers information held on our platform. Even if such a breach is unrelated to our security programs or practices, such breach could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, and could result in reputational harm to us. Digital supply chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity. We cannot guarantee that third parties and our supply chain infrastructure have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our platform, systems and network or the systems and networks of third parties that support us and our business. Third parties may also exploit vulnerabilities in, or obtain unauthorized access to, platforms, systems, networks, or physical facilities utilized by us or our third-party vendors or service providers. If we lose key members of our management team or employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our compensation costs will increase and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Competition for talent in the technology industry has become increasingly intense, particularly in the last several months. In 2021, there has been a dramatic increase in workers leaving their positions throughout our industry that is being referred to as the great resignation, and the market to build, retain and replace talent has become even more highly competitive. Our success depends substantially upon the continued services of our management team, particularly our chief executive officer, our chief product and engineering officer, and the other members of our executive staff. In response to this highly competitive environment, we recently made significant performance-based equity awards to our executive staff outside of our regular compensation program, but we cannot guarantee that this will be sufficient to retain all of these individuals. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. While we seek to manage these transitions carefully, including by establishing strong processes and procedures and succession planning, such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge, cause disruptions to our business and negatively affect our business. The technology industry is subject to substantial and continuous competition for diverse, talented product and engineering, sales and operations employees. Many key individual contributors, particularly in research and development, engineering and sales, are critical to our success and can command very significant compensation in the market. We have faced and may continue to face difficulties attracting, hiring and retaining highly-skilled personnel and with appropriate qualifications and may not be able to fill positions in desired geographic areas or at all. In particular, competition for experienced software 19 Table of Contents and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in our primary operating locations (San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, Hyderabad, Dublin, London, and Amsterdam) is intense. Such difficulties may be exacerbated by employees reactions to our policies related to COVID-19 vaccination or flexibility to remote working. As a result, we have also experienced and may continue to experience increased compensation and training costs that may not be offset by either improved productivity or higher sales, potentially resulting in a reduction in our profitability. Many of our employees, including all of our executive officers, are employed at-will and may terminate their employment with us at any time. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, we believe our corporate culture of fostering innovation, teamwork and employee satisfaction has been a key contributor to our success to date. However, in this period of the "great resignation," we have and may continue to face higher employee turnover rates. As we continue to grow and expand globally and navigate shifting workforce priorities, including a new hybrid work model in which many of our employees continue to work remote for part of the week and fully remote workers continue to increase, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success and could ultimately have a negative impact on our ability to innovate our technology and our business. Further, as of December 31, 2021, approximately 31% of our employees have been employed by us for a year or less and we must be able to effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the effectiveness of our business execution and the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. Such challenges may be exacerbated by the new hybrid work model. Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. Our business depends on our platform to be available without disruption. From time to time, we experience defects, disruptions, outages and other performance and quality problems with our platform, and new defects may be detected in the future and may arise from our increasing use of the public cloud. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which can contain undetected defects when first released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open-source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in developing, delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service or ransomware attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data centers operated by several different providers located around the world, and serve certain of our customers that are primarily in highly regulated markets, using data center facilities operated by public cloud service providers. These data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error or negligence. Despite precautions taken at these centers, problems at these centers have occurred, resulting in interruptions in our services. Such problems could occur again and result in similar or lengthier service interruptions and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. In addition to data center providers, we also have a large ecosystem of service providers that we use in our delivery of our products. If there is a compromise to data or other incident with our critical service providers, it may impact our ability to provide our services. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Similarly, customers may have unique requirements for system resiliency and performance depending on their business models and customers in highly regulated markets may have more demanding requirements that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. The occurrence of payment delays, service credit, warranty or termination for material breach or other claims against us could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles, an increase to our service level credit accruals, other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We may not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions to our services. Lawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. There is considerable patent and other IP development activity and claims and related litigation regarding patent and IP rights in our industry. Our competitors, other third parties and non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of IP rights against us. Moreover, the patent portfolios of many of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. We have recorded material charges for legal settlements of such claims in the past. In any IP litigation, regardless of the scope or merit, we may incur substantial costs and attorneys fees and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us and we are found to be infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating the IP rights of others, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and/or make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease 20 Table of Contents offering or modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners, obtain costly licenses on their behalf, and/or refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Further, upon expiration of the term of any agreements that allow us to use third-party IP, we may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms, if at all, in which case we may face IP litigation. The mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the press, analysts and litigants could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers. This could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates, cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors and cause a substantial decline in our stock price. Any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other IP protections in the US and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents acquired in the future may not provide competitive advantages or other value. In addition, any patents that have been or may be issued or acquired may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon them. Further, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of IP rights vary. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality similar to ours. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our IP rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from utilizing their developments to compete with us. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Our IP rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer services. The laws of some foreign countries may not offer effective protection for or be as protective of IP rights as those in the US, and mechanisms for enforcement of IP rights or available remedies may be inadequate, ineffective or scarce. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our IP rights. We have initiated and, in the future, may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement or misappropriation of IP rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our IP rights or are required to incur substantial expenses defending our IP rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to possible litigation. Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software into our products and services in the future. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products and services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and services. For example, depending on which open source license governs certain open source software included within our products and services, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our products and services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using such open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from distributing our products and services. Various factors, including our customers business, integration, migration, compliance and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. 21 Table of Contents Our business depends upon the successful implementation of our products by our customers either through us or our partners. Further, our customers business, integration, migration, compliance and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, or other factors may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. For example, changes in the functional requirements of our customers, delays in timeline, or deviations from recommended best practices may occur during the course of implementation. As a result of these and other risks, we or our customers may incur significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase, implementation and enablement of our products. Some customer implementations may take longer than planned or fail to meet our customers expectations, which may delay our ability to sell additional products or result in customers canceling or failing to renew their subscriptions before our products have been fully implemented. Some customers may lack the internal resources to manage a digital transformation such as our offering and, as a consequence, may be unable to see the benefits of our products. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly implementations and integrations could result in claims from customers, reputational harm, and opportunities for competitors to displace our products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Risks Related to the Financial Performance or Financial Position of Our Business Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price or our investors. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason, either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our financial performance to vary widely, or cause our forward-looking financial guidance to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors, include: our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy customers requirements; changes in our mix of products and services, including cloud and self-hosted offerings or customers use of our products; our ability to increase sales and market penetration of our products or services; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposure; the rate of expansion, retention and productivity of our sales and engineering organizations; the number of new employees added; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new products and services; general economic conditions that may adversely affect our customers or prospective customers purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to business operation and expansion; seasonality of when we enter into customer agreements; the length and complexity of the sales cycle and certification process for our services, especially for larger deals and sales to larger enterprises, government and regulated organizations; changes in the size and complexity of our customer relationships; changes to our management, sales and account management teams as we scale and evolve business priorities; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies or models; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions or products introduced by our competitors; changes in effective tax rates; changes in the average contract term of our customer agreements, timing of renewals, renewal rates, expansion within our existing customers and billings duration; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration, including the tax effects of acquisitions; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; our ability to comply with privacy laws and regulations; significant litigation or regulatory actions relating to claims of IP infringement, violation of privacy laws, employment matters or any other significant matter; the amount and timing of equity awards and the related financial statement expenses; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and 22 Table of Contents our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services. Because we generally recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, a decrease in new subscriptions or renewals during a reporting period may not be immediately reflected in our operating results for that period. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. Net new annual contract value from new subscriptions and expansion contracts entered into during a period can generally be expected to generate revenues for the duration of the subscription term. As a result, a significant portion of the revenues we report in each period are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in any single reporting period will have a limited impact on our revenues for that period. Also, our ability to adjust our cost structure in the event of a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions may be limited. Further, a decline in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a given period may not be fully reflected in our revenues for that period, but they will negatively affect our revenues in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers are generally recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, due to the complexity of certain customer contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment required under Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) depends on contract-specific terms and may result in greater variability in revenues from period to period. A decrease in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a reporting period may not immediately impact billings for that period because the decrease may be offset by an increase in billings duration, the dollar value of contracts with future start dates, or the dollar value of collections in the current period related to contracts with future start dates. As our business grows, we expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline. We have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods; however, our longer-term revenue growth rate is declining, and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future due to a number of reasons, which may include maturation of our business, increasing competition, or decrease in the growth of our overall market. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our strategic priorities, which may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. You should not rely on our revenue from any prior period as an indication of our future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile. Changes in our effective tax rate or disallowance of our tax positions may adversely affect our financial position and results. We are subject to income taxes in the US and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. Additionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles or changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. The Biden Administration has proposed increases to the U.S. corporate income tax rate, minimum tax on book income, and increased taxation of international business operations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law, which could affect our results of operations in the period issued. Many countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. Recent global tax developments applicable to multinational businesses and increased scrutiny under tax examinations could have a material impact on our business and negatively affect our financial results. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or 23 Table of Contents more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period. Further, many of our most important intangible assets are held outside the US and are subject to inter-company agreements regarding the development and distribution of those assets to other jurisdictions with potential challenge under permanent establishment or transfer pricing principles. While we believe that our position is appropriate and well founded, if our position was to be successfully challenged by taxing authorities in other jurisdictions, we may become subject to significant tax liabilities, which could harm our financial position and financial results. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and at a reasonable assurance level of our disclosure