ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with the (1) unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 included in the form 10-K dated as of, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, on March 8, 2013 (File No. 001-35580). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. These statements are often identified by the use of words such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate, intend, could, estimate, or continue, and similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview ServiceNow is a leading provider of cloud-based services to automate enterprise IT operations. We focus on transforming enterprise IT by automating and standardizing business processes and consolidating IT across the global enterprise. Organizations deploy our service to create a single system of record for enterprise IT, lower operational costs and enhance efficiency. Additionally, our customers use our extensible platform to build custom applications for automating activities unique to their business requirements. We offer our service under a SaaS business model. Our subscription fee includes access to our suite of applications, access to our platform to build custom applications, and our technical support and management of our cloud-based infrastructure. We provide a scaled pricing model based on the duration of the subscription term and we frequently extend discounts to our customers based on the number of users. We generally bill our customers annually in advance. We generate sales through our direct sales team and indirectly through channel partners and third-party referrals. We also generate revenues from professional services for implementation and training of customer personnel. Many customers initially subscribe to our service to solve a specific and immediate problem. Once their problem is solved, many of our customers deploy additional applications as they become more familiar with our service and apply it to new IT processes. In addition, some customers adopt our platform to build applications that automate various processes for business uses outside of IT such as human resources, facilities and quality control management. A majority of our revenues come from large global enterprise customers. To date, we have funded our business primarily with cash flows from operations. We continue to invest in the development of our service, infrastructure and sales and marketing to drive long-term growth. We increased our overall employee headcount to 1,269 as of March 31, 2013 from 728 as of March 31, 2012 . Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Total customers . We believe our total customer count is a key indicator of our market penetration, growth and future revenues. We have aggressively invested in, and intend to continue to invest in, our direct sales force and additional partnerships within our indirect sales channel. We generally define a customer as an entity with an active service contract as of the measurement date. In situations where there is a single contract that applies to entities with multiple subsidiaries or divisions, universities, or governmental organizations, each entity that has contracted for a separate production instance of our service is counted as a separate customer. As of March 31, 2013 and 2012 , our total customer count was 1,640 and 1,074 , respectively. Investment in growth . We have aggressively invested, and intend to continue to invest in, expanding our operations, increasing our headcount and developing technology to support our growth. We expect our total operating expenses to increase in the foreseeable future, particularly as we continue to expand our sales and marketing organizations, further invest in research and development and grow our cloud-based infrastructure to support our growth. We continue to invest in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenues and support the growth of our customer base. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization and our capacity to deliver our services will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, so it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating our resources in these areas. 17 Table of Contents Renewal rate . We calculate our renewal rate by subtracting our attrition rate from 100%. Our attrition rate for a period is equal to the annual contract value from lost customers, divided by the total annual contract value from all customers that renewed during the period and from all lost customers. A lost customer is a customer that did not renew a contract expiring in the period and that, in our judgment, will not renew. Annual contract value is equal to the first twelve months of expected subscription revenues under a contract. Typically a customer that reduces its subscription upon renewal is not considered a lost customer. Rather, these decreases in annual contract value are netted against upsells. However, in instances where the subscription decrease represents the majority of the customer's annual contract value, we may deem the renewal as a lost customer. We believe our renewal rate is an important metric to measure the long-term value of customer agreements and our ability to retain our customers. Our renewal rate was 96% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 . Upsells . To grow our business it is important for us to generate additional sales from existing customers, which we refer to as our upsell rate. We calculate our upsell rate as the annual contract value of upsells signed during the period, net of any decreases in annual contract value of renewals during the period, divided by our total annual contract value signed during the period. The upsell rate was 33% and 32% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Our upsells are primarily derived by an increase in the number of seat licenses purchased by our customers. Investment in infrastructure . We have made and will continue to make investments in new equipment to support growth and enhancements at our data centers and expand our office facilities around the world. We will continue to invest in enhancements to our cloud architecture, which are designed to provide our customers with enhanced scalability, data reliability and availability, including the purchase of additional cloud-based infrastructure hardware. We are also evaluating the expansion of our data center locations to address additional geographic markets, which will result in additional investments to our infrastructure if pursued. In addition, we will continue to enter into new office facility leases in the future to accommodate our projected headcount growth at various locations around the world. These new leases may require investments in leasehold improvements, as well as furniture and equipment to support our employees. If we add to our headcount at a faster rate than anticipated, we may incur substantial costs in terminating existing leases to enter into new leases for larger space. Professional services model . We believe our professional services engagements by us or our partners facilitate the adoption of our subscription service. Beginning in December 2011, we began shifting our pricing model from a fixed-fee basis to a time-and-materials basis and improving the process by which we scope projects and manage resource utilization. As a result of these changes, our gross profit percentage from professional services improved to 3% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to (30)% for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Platform adoption . Our service includes access to our suite of applications, as well as access to our platform to create customer-built extensions to our suite of applications. Customers may also purchase the use of the platform to develop custom applications. Though in the near term we expect our revenue growth to be primarily driven by the pace of adoption and penetration of our suite of applications, we are investing resources to enhance the development capabilities of our platform. We believe the extensibility and simplicity of our platform is resulting in an increased use of our platform by our customers to create extensions of our applications or custom applications, and will enhance our ability to acquire new customers, increase upsells and sustain high renewal rates. Components of Results of Operations Revenues Subscription revenues . Subscription revenues are primarily comprised of fees which give customers access to our suite of applications, as well as access to our platform to build custom applications. Pricing includes multiple instances, hosting and support services, data backup and disaster recovery services, as well as future upgrades offered during the subscription period. In addition, we offer two separately priced enabling technologies, Discovery and Orchestration. We typically invoice our customers for subscription fees in annual increments upon initiation of the initial contract or subsequent renewal. Our average initial contract term was approximately 32 months and 30 months for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Our contracts are generally non-cancelable, though customers can terminate for breach if we materially fail to perform. We generate sales directly through our sales team and, to a lesser extent, through our channel partners. Sales to our channel partners are made at a discount and revenues are recorded at the discounted price when all revenue recognition criteria are met. From time to time, our channel partners also provide us referrals for which we pay a referral fee. We pay referral fees to channel partners and other third parties typically ranging from 8% to 25% of the first years annual contract value. These fees are included in sales and marketing expense. Professional services and other revenues . Professional services revenues consist of fees associated with the implementation and configuration of our subscription service. Other revenues include customer training and attendance and sponsorship fees for 18 Table of Contents our annual user conference, Knowledge. Prior to 2012, our pricing for professional services was predominantly on a fixed-fee basis. Beginning in December 2011, we began shifting our pricing model to a time-and-materials basis. Going forward, we anticipate the majority of our new business will be priced on a time-and-materials basis. In the three months ended March 31, 2012, the average professional services engagement was seven months. The average professional services engagement completed during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was four months. We bill for our fixed price professional services in installments based on milestones related to the completion of specified projects or specified dates. Our time-and-materials professional services are generally billed monthly in arrears based on actual hours and expenses incurred. Typical payment terms provide our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice. Professional services revenues are recognized as the services are delivered, which is substantially the same period as the associated costs are incurred. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates below for further discussion of our revenue recognition accounting policy. Overhead Allocation Overhead associated with benefits, facilities, IT costs and depreciation related to our noncloud-based infrastructure is allocated to cost of revenues and operating expenses based on headcount. Depreciation related to our cloud-based infrastructure hardware is included in cost of subscription revenues. Cost of Revenues Subscription cost of revenues . Cost of subscription revenues consists primarily of expenses related to hosting our service and providing support to our customers. These expenses are comprised of data center capacity costs; personnel and related costs directly associated with our cloud-based infrastructure and customer support, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation; and allocated overhead. Professional services and other cost of revenues . Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of personnel and related costs directly associated with our professional services and training departments, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation; the costs of contracted third-party vendors; and allocated overhead. Professional services associated with the implementation and configuration of our subscription services are performed directly by our services team, as well as by contracted third-party vendors. Fees paid up-front to our third-party vendors are deferred and amortized to cost of revenues as the professional services are delivered. Fees owed to our third-party vendors are accrued over the same requisite service period. Internal payroll costs are similarly recognized as professional services are delivered. Cost of revenues associated with our professional services engagements contracted with third-party vendors as a percentage of professional services and other revenues was 18% and 52% in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses directly associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, commissions and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also includes third-party referral fees, marketing and promotional events, including our Knowledge conference, online marketing, product marketing and allocated overhead. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel and related expenses directly associated with our research and development staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, and allocated overhead. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consists primarily of personnel and related expenses for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation; legal, accounting and other professional services fees; other corporate expenses; and allocated overhead. Provision for Income Taxes 19 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes. Due to cumulative losses, we maintain a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2013 . We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, in assessing the extent to which a valuation allowance should be applied against our deferred tax assets. 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations To enhance comparability, the following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription $ 71,558 $ 39,541 Professional services and other 14,381 7,890 Total revenues 85,939 47,431 Cost of revenues (1) : Subscription 18,312 11,012 Professional services and other 13,996 10,224 Total cost of revenues 32,308 21,236 Gross profit 53,631 26,195 Operating expenses (1) : Sales and marketing 38,226 19,307 Research and development 16,039 6,043 General and administrative 12,279 6,427 Total operating expenses 66,544 31,777 Loss from operations (12,913 ) (5,582 ) Interest and other income, net 119 492 Loss before provision for income taxes (12,794 ) (5,090 ) Provision for income taxes 564 550 Net loss $ (13,358 ) $ (5,640 ) (1) Stock-based compensation included in the statements of operations above was as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Cost of revenues: Subscription $ 1,794 $ 532 Professional services and other 821 192 Sales and marketing 3,985 1,471 Research and development 3,114 661 General and administrative 2,332 1,062 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Revenues: Subscription 83 % 83 % Professional services and other 17 17 Total revenues 100 100 Cost of revenues: Subscription 21 23 Professional services and other 16 22 Total cost of revenues 37 45 Gross profit 63 55 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 44 41 Research and development 19 13 General and administrative 15 13 Total operating expenses 78 67 Loss from operations (15 ) (12 ) Interest and other income, net 1 Loss before provision for income taxes (15 ) (11 ) Provision for income taxes 1 1 Net loss (16 )% (12 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Revenues by geography North America $ 60,145 $ 33,930 Europe 20,304 11,878 Asia Pacific and other 5,490 1,623 Total revenues $ 85,939 $ 47,431 Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Revenues by geography North America 70 % 72 % Europe 24 25 Asia Pacific and other 6 3 Total revenues 100 % 100 % 22 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Subscription $ 71,558 $ 39,541 81 % Professional services and other 14,381 7,890 82 % Total revenues $ 85,939 $ 47,431 81 % Percentage of revenues: Subscription 83 % 83 % Professional services and other 17 17 Total 100 % 100 % Revenues increased $38.5 million , primarily due to an increase in subscription revenues of $32.0 million driven by an increase in our customer count, additional sales from existing customers, or upsells, and renewals. Total customer count at March 31, 2013 was 1,640 compared to 1,074 at March 31, 2012 , an increase of 566 customers, or 53% . Our upsell rate and renewal rate for the trailing twelve months ending March 31, 2013 were 31% and 96% , respectively. The $6.5 million increase in professional services and other revenues was primarily due to an increase in the services provided to our growing customer base, and improvements in pricing of our fixed-fee and time-and-materials engagements. Our average total revenues per customer, defined as trailing four quarters' revenues divided by the average number of customers during the trailing four quarters, increased to approximately $198,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to approximately $164,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Percentage Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues: Subscription $ 18,312 $ 11,012 66 % Professional services and other 13,996 10,224 37 % Total cost of revenues $ 32,308 $ 21,236 52 % Gross profit percentage: Subscription 74 % 72 % Professional services and other 3 % (30 )% Total gross profit percentage 63 % 55 % Gross profit $ 53,631 $ 26,195 105 % Headcount (at period end) Subscription 234 142 65 % Professional services and other 204 122 67 % Total headcount 438 264 66 % Cost of subscription revenues increased $7.3 million , primarily due to increased personnel-related expenses within our cloud-based infrastructure and support organizations and additional investments in our data centers. Personnel-related expenses increased $5.1 million , consisting primarily of increased employee compensation, benefits, travel and hiring expenses of $3.8 million and additional stock-based compensation of $1.3 million . Overhead expenses increased $1.0 million . 23 Table of Contents Hosting expenses related to our co-location data centers increased by approximately $1.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012. This increase was offset by a decrease of approximately $1.5 million in expenses related to our managed data centers, which we exited and stopped incurring related expenses as of December 31, 2012. Depreciation expense related to our cloud-based infrastructure hardware increased by $1.4 million primarily due to purchases of equipment in our co-location data centers partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense associated with our managed service data centers. All assets in our managed service data centers had a useful life ending December 31, 2012. Our subscription gross profit percentage was 74% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to 72% for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . We expect our subscription gross profit percentage to be 72% to 73% in the three months ended June 30, 2013, as we continue to invest in our cloud-based infrastructure and support personnel, grow our data center footprint and purchase new equipment to support our growing customer base. Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $3.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year. The overall increase was primarily attributable to increased personnel-related expenses of $4.4 million , consisting primarily of increased employee compensation, benefits, travel and hiring expenses of $3.8 million and additional stock-based compensation of $0.6 million , driven by headcount growth and an increase in our stock price. Overhead expenses increased $0.5 million also due to headcount growth. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $1.6 million in outside services expenses due to a decrease in the work sub-contracted to our partners. Our professional services and other gross profit (loss) percentage improved to 3% during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to (30)% during the three months ended March 31, 2012 . We expect our gross profit percentage from professional services and other to be 17% to 19% in the three months ended June 30, 2013. In the three months ended June 30, 2013, we expect to recognize approximately $4.0 million in revenues from Knowledge, our annual user conference, with all expenses recorded in sales and marketing. Excluding revenues from Knowledge, we expect our professional services and other gross profit to decrease slightly relative to the three months ended March 31, 2013. Excluding the revenues from Knowledge makes it easier to compare our professional services and other gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2013 with our professional services and other gross profit in other quarters. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 38,226 $ 19,307 98 % Percentage of revenues 44 % 41 % Headcount (at period end) 452 270 67 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $18.9 million primarily driven by the expansion of our direct sales team, our annual sales kickoff event, and increases in marketing program expenses to address additional opportunities in new and existing markets. Excluding commissions, personnel related expenses increased $11.3 million , consisting primarily of increased employee compensation, benefits, travel and hiring expenses of $8.7 million and additional stock-based compensation of $2.5 million . Overhead expenses also increased $1.1 million due to increased headcount. Commissions increased $3.4 million primarily due to growth in bookings in prior periods and changes made to our commission plans. Commissions and referral fees amounted to 9% and 7% of subscription revenues in three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. These fees are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable terms of the related customer contracts. In the three months ended March 31, 2013 , we incurred expenses of $1.3 million associated with our annual sales kickoff event, which was previously held in July. Marketing program expenses, which include events, advertising and market data, increased $1.3 million . In the second quarter of 2013, we expect to incur sales and marketing expenses of approximately $8.0 to $9.0 million related to Knowledge, our annual user conference. Excluding the charges related to Knowledge, we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in terms of dollars but remain relatively flat as a percent of total revenues as we continue to expand our direct sales force, increase our marketing activities, grow our international operations, build brand awareness and sponsor additional marketing events. Excluding the charges from Knowledge makes it easier to compare our sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 with our sales and marketing expenses in other quarters. Research and Development 24 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 16,039 $ 6,043 165 % Percentage of revenues 19 % 13 % Headcount (at period end) 231 116 99 % Research and development expenses increased $10.0 million driven by our continued investments in upgrading and extending our service offerings and the development of new technologies. Personnel-related expenses increased $8.3 million , consisting primarily of increased employee compensation, benefits, travel and hiring expenses of $5.8 million and additional stock-based compensation of $2.5 million . Overhead expenses also increased $1.4 million due to headcount growth. We expect research and development expenses to increase in terms of dollars but remain relatively flat as a percent of total revenues as we continue to improve the existing functionality of our service, develop new applications to fill market needs and continue to enhance our core platform. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 12,279 $ 6,427 91 % Percentage of revenues 15 % 13 % Headcount (at period end) 148 78 90 % General and administrative expenses increased $5.9 million primarily due to increased headcount, expenses associated with being a public company and our international expansion. Personnel-related expenses increased $4.0 million , consisting primarily of increased employee compensation, benefits, travel and hiring expenses of $2.7 million and additional stock-based compensation of $1.3 million , as we added employees to support the growth of our business. Corporate expenses increased by $1.2 million . We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in terms of dollars but decrease as a percent of revenue as we continue to grow and incur expenses related to being a public company. These expenses include higher legal, corporate insurance and accounting expenses, and the additional expenses of achieving and maintaining compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. Interest and Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income, net $ 119 $ 492 (76 )% Percentage of revenues % 1 % Interest and other income, net, primarily consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. The decrease is due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar compared to the prior year, offset by an increase in interest income of $0.1 million from the increased balance of our marketable securities. While we have not engaged in the hedging of our foreign currency transactions to date, we are presently evaluating the costs and benefits of initiating such a program and may hedge selected significant transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in the future. Provision for Income Taxes 25 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Income before income taxes $ (12,794 ) $ (5,090 ) 151 % Provision for income taxes 564 550 3 % Effective tax rate (4 )% (11 )% Our effective tax rate increased to (4)% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 from (11)% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, due to a higher proportion of earnings in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates and a loss from U.S. operations in the three months ended March, 31, 2013 compared to the same period in the prior year. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets, and the significant components of the tax expense recorded are current cash taxes in various jurisdictions. The cash tax expenses are impacted by each jurisdictions individual tax rates, laws on timing of recognition of income and deductions and availability of net operating losses and tax credits. Given the full valuation allowance, sensitivity of current cash taxes to local rules and our foreign restructuring, we expect our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are considered to be permanently reinvested outside of the United States. Liquidity and Capital Resources Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 15,023 $ 16,079 Net cash used in investing activities (11,011 ) (23,894 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 22,621 19,927 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents, net of impact of exchange rates on cash 25,793 12,052 At March 31, 2013 , we had $144.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $22.1 million represented cash located outside the United States. We also had $194.1 million in short-term investments consisting of commercial paper and corporate debt securities. Based on our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and cash flows from operating activities will be sufficient to fund our operating needs for at least the next 12 months, barring unforeseen circumstances. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $15.0 million , reflecting our net loss of $13.4 million , adjusted by non-cash charges including $12.0 million for stock-based compensation, $5.4 million for the amortization of deferred commissions, $4.4 million for depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million for lease abandonment costs, and non-cash benefits including $1.9 million tax benefit from exercise of stock options and changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Our overall net change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily comprised of an increase of $25.7 million in deferred revenue and a decrease of $3.9 million in prepaid expenses and other assets, offset by a $2.9 million increase in accounts receivable, a $9.3 million increase in deferred commissions, a decrease of $1.5 million in accounts payable and a $9.0 million decrease in accrued liabilities. The increases in deferred revenue, deferred commissions and accounts receivable were primarily due to increased sales in the three months ended March 31, 2013 . The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets is primarily due to the income tax withholdings received from employees associated with stock options exercised in December 2012, partially offset by vendor deposits made for our annual user conference, Knowledge, which will be held in May 2013. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities is primarily due to payment of certain indirect taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and decrease in payroll withholdings from the employee stock purchase plan due to purchases of common stock in February 2013. Net cash provided by operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2012 reflected our net loss of $5.6 million, adjusted by non-cash charges including $3.9 million for stock-based compensation, $2.3 million for the amortization of deferred 26 Table of Contents commissions and $2.0 million for depreciation, and changes in our working capital. The fluctuations in our operating assets and liabilities were primarily attributed to an increase of $11.0 million in deferred revenue and a decrease of $4.2 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $5.3 million increase in deferred commissions. The increases in deferred revenue and deferred commissions were primarily due to increased sales in the three months ended March 31, 2012. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets was due to the settlement of our Chief Product Officer's outstanding receivable for withholding taxes associated with the sale of Series C and Series D preferred stock. Investing Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2013 , cash used in investing activities was primarily attributed to cash paid for capital expenditures of $10.4 million primarily related to the purchase of cloud-based infrastructure hardware to support the expansion of our data centers as well as investments in leasehold improvements and furniture and equipment to support our headcount growth. The purchase of $55.9 million in short-term investments was offset by maturities of $55.4 million . In the three months ended March 31, 2012 , cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to the purchase of $15.3 million in short-term investments and cash paid for capital expenditures of $8.6 million primarily related to the purchase of cloud-based infrastructure hardware to support the expansion of our data centers. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of equity issuances, including excess tax benefits from stock award activities. In the three months ended March 31, 2013 , cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $21.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock from employee stock plans and $1.9 million of excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. In the three months ended March 31, 2012 , cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $17.9 million in gross proceeds from the issuance of 1,750,980 shares of common stock at a price of $10.20 per share through a private placement with a new stockholder and $1.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock through the exercise of employee stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude orders for goods and services entered into in the normal course of business that are not enforceable or legally binding. The following table represents our known contractual obligations as of March 31, 2013 , aggregated by type: Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating leases: Data centers (1) $ 17,196 $ 5,863 $ 10,834 $ 499 $ Facilities space (2) 96,619 4,842 21,049 22,425 48,303 Total operating leases $ 113,815 $ 10,705 $ 31,883 $ 22,924 $ 48,303 (1) Operating leases for data centers represent our principal commitment for data center facilities and bandwidth. (2) Operating leases for facilities space represents our principal commitments, which consists of obligations under leases for office space. Lease commitments of $9.6 million related to the lease for our former San Diego office are also included in the table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During all periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in those types of relationships. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. These items are monitored and analyzed by us for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Changes in estimates are reflected in reported results for the period in which they become known. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we believe that the following accounting policies are critical to the process of making significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our audited consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We commence revenue recognition when all of the following conditions are met: There is persuasive evidence of an arrangement; The service has been provided to the customer; The collection of related fees is reasonably assured; and The amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable. Signed agreements are used as evidence of an arrangement. If a signed contract by the customer does not exist, we have historically used either a purchase order or a signed order form as evidence of an arrangement. In cases where both a signed contract and either a purchase order or signed order form exist, we consider the signed contract to be the final persuasive evidence of an arrangement. Subscription revenues are recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each contract, which is the date we make our service available to our customers. Once our service is available to customers, amounts due are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue. Our professional services are primarily priced on a time-and-materials basis. Professional services and other revenues are recognized as the services are delivered using a proportional performance model. Such services are delivered over a short period of time. In instances where final acceptance of the services are required before revenues are recognized, professional services revenues and the associated costs are deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. We assess collectibility based on a number of factors such as past collection history with the customer and creditworthiness of the customer. If we determine collectibility is not reasonably assured, we defer revenue recognition until collectibility becomes reasonably assured. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Our arrangements do not include general rights of return. We have multiple element arrangements comprised of subscription fees and professional services. We account for subscription and professional services revenues as separate units of accounting. To qualify as a separate unit of accounting, the delivered item must have value to the customer on a standalone basis. Our subscription service has standalone value as it is routinely sold separately by us. In determining whether professional services have standalone value, we considered the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customer's satisfaction with the professional services work. Our professional services, including implementation and configuration services, are not so unique and complex that other vendors cannot provide them. In some instances, customers independently contract with third-party vendors to do the implementation and we regularly outsource implementation services to contracted third-party vendors. As a result, we concluded professional services, including implementation and configuration services, have standalone value. Our application is fully functional without any additional development, modification or customization. We provide customers access to our subscription service at the beginning of the contract term. 28 Table of Contents We determine the selling price of each deliverable in the arrangement using the relative-selling price method based on the selling price hierarchy. Under the selling price hierarchy, the selling price for each deliverable is determined using vendor-specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of selling price or third-party evidence, or TPE, of selling price if VSOE does not exist. If neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price exists for a deliverable, the selling price is determined using the best estimate of selling price, or BESP. The selling price for each unit of account is based on the BESP since VSOE and TPE are not available for our subscription service or professional services and other. The BESP for each deliverable is determined primarily by considering the historical selling price of these deliverables in similar transactions as well as other factors, including, but not limited to, market competition, review of stand-alone sales and pricing practices. The total arrangement fee for these multiple element arrangements is then allocated to the separate units of account based on the relative selling price. The method used to determine the BESP for our subscription service is consistent with the method used to determine prices for our services that are sold regularly on a standalone basis. In determining the appropriate pricing structure, we consider the extent of competitive pricing of similar products and marketing analyses. We price our subscription service using a scaled model based on the duration of the subscription term and we frequently extend discounts to our customers based on the number of users. The BESP for our subscription service is based upon the historical selling price of these deliverables. In limited circumstances, we grant certain customers the right to deploy our subscription service on the customers own servers without significant penalty. We have analyzed all of the elements in these particular multiple element arrangements and determined we do not have sufficient VSOE of fair value to allocate revenue to our subscription service and professional services. We defer all revenue under the arrangement until the commencement of the subscription service and any associated professional services. Once the subscription service and the associated professional services have commenced, the entire fee from the arrangement is recognized ratably over the remaining period of the arrangement. Deferred Commissions We defer expenses associated with commission payments made to our direct sales force and referral fees paid to independent third-parties. The commissions are deferred and amortized to sales expense over the non-cancelable terms of the related contracts with our customers. The commission payments are a direct and incremental cost of the revenue arrangements. The deferred commission amounts are recoverable through the future revenue streams under the non-cancelable customer contracts. We believe this is preferable to expensing sales commissions as incurred because the commission charges are so closely related to revenues they should be recorded as an asset and charged to expense over the same period the revenues are recognized. Additionally, we believe this policy election enhances the comparability of our consolidated financial statements to those of other companies in our industry. Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation expense for all stock-based payments made to employees and directors based on the fair value of the award as of the date of grant. The expense is recognized, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. We estimate forfeitures based upon our historical experience. At each period end, we review the estimated forfeiture rate and make changes as factors affecting the forfeiture rate calculations and assumptions change. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value of our stock options and employee stock purchase plan, or ESPP, awards. For restricted stock units, the fair value of the award is determined based on the fair value of our common stock on the grant date. Determining the fair value under the Black-Scholes model requires the use of inputs that are subjective and generally require significant analysis and judgment to develop. These inputs include the fair value of our common stock, expected volatility, expected term, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividend yield, which are estimated as follows: Fair value of our common stock : Because our stock was not publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, we estimated the fair value of our common stock in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . Following our initial public offering in June 2012, our common stock was valued by reference to its publicly traded price. Expected volatility : We use the historic volatility of publicly traded peer companies as an estimate for our expected volatility. In considering peer companies, we assess characteristics such as industry, stage of development, size, and financial leverage. We intend to continue to consistently apply this process using the same or similar public companies until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own common stock share price becomes available. 29 Table of Contents Expected term : We estimate the expected term using the simplified method due to the lack of historical exercise activity for our company. The simplified method calculates the expected term as the mid-point between the vesting date and the contractual expiration date of the award. Risk-free interest rate : The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the stock-based award. Dividend yield : Our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not and do not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. If any assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model change significantly, stock-based compensation for future awards may differ materially compared with the awards granted previously. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid. Significant judgments and estimates based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations in the United States and the numerous foreign jurisdictions where we are subject to income tax are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and estimates of our future taxable income could impact the deferred tax assets and liabilities provided for in the consolidated financial statements and would require an adjustment to the provision for income taxes. Deferred tax assets are regularly assessed to determine the likelihood they will be recovered from future taxable income. A valuation allowance is established when we believe it is more likely than not the future realization of all or some of a deferred tax asset will not be achieved. In evaluating our ability to recover deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction in which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence. Factors reviewed include the cumulative pre-tax book income for the past three years, scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, our history of earnings and reliable forecasting, projections of pre-tax book income over the foreseeable future, and the impact of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. We recognize the impact of a tax position in our consolidated financial statements only if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax authorities regularly examine our returns in the jurisdictions in which we do business and we regularly assess the tax risk of our return filing positions. Due to the complexity of some of the uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in payments that are materially different from our current estimate of the tax liability. These differences, as well as any interest and penalties, will be reflected in the provision for income taxes in the period in which they are determined.