Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNow is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services for global enterprises. Our mission is to help our customers improve service levels and reduce costs while scaling and automating their businesses. We offer a comprehensive set of cloud-based services that automate workflow within and between departments in an enterprise. Historically, our focus was on solving challenges found in enterprise information technology (IT) departments, and we pioneered the use of the cloud to deliver IT service management applications. We now provide workflow solutions that go beyond the scope of the IT department and have extended our focus to service management for customer support, human resources, security operations and other enterprise departments where a patchwork of semi-automated and manual processes had been used in the past. Using our cloud services, users can easily request business services from these departments, service levels from these departments improve and overall the business runs more efficiently. All of our cloud services are built on our proprietary platform which features one code base and one data model. The platform also enables customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented business applications across the enterprise. We deliver our software via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer product-like interface, which means it can be easily configured and rapidly deployed. We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care, government, education and technology. We sell our subscription services primarily through direct sales and, to a lesser extent, through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. As of December 31, 2016 , we had approximately 3,600 enterprise customers, including more than 30% of the worlds 2,000 largest companies, as defined by an annual ranking by Forbes magazine. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. Key Customer Benefits Key customer benefits of our services include: Security, Scalability and Performance. Our cloud-based architecture, customer-dedicated software and network resources, and high-availability infrastructure deliver security, scalability and performance to our customers' operations. Automation. Our platform enables the implementation of standardized, automated workflows that reduce inefficiencies and the costs incurred by our customers in deploying enterprise-wide service management solutions. Cloud delivery. The ease of implementing, configuring and upgrading our cloud-based applications enable the rapid delivery of solutions to service management requirements across the enterprise. 1 Single system of record. Consolidating service management applications across the enterprise onto one platform improves the manageability of IT systems, enhances compliance and reporting and reduces costs. User satisfaction. We deliver a consumer product-like experience that improves user satisfaction and increases adoption. Expertise. We offer customers an extensive network of experts, in addition to community-based and self-help support, so that customers have the resources to design, implement and manage enterprise-wide solutions. Our Strategy Our goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud-based services that automate service management requirements across the enterprise. We believe the market for our solutions is significant and growing, and we intend to continue to make significant investments to expand our operational capacity and global market adoption. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Drive service management transformation. We will continue to inspire and lead global enterprises to transform service management by standardizing, consolidating and automating services across their businesses on our applications and platform. Invest in technology leadership. We will continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance our existing applications and deliver new applications, as well as develop new automation and machine intelligence technologies. We typically deliver ongoing innovation to our customers in two upgrades per year. We will also look to acquire technology and talent through acquisitions and partnerships. Expand our customer base. We will continue to expand our customer base through additional investments in our direct sales force, strategic reseller and influencer partnerships, and our cloud infrastructure and data centers. We will make these investments in new and existing geographies in which we compete. Extend our relationships with existing customers . We will continue to expand adoption of our services within our existing customer base by marketing, selling and further enhancing our applications and platform capabilities that deliver business benefits to our customers. Develop our partner ecosystem . Our partners provide us and our customers with an important extension of product, solution and geographic reach. We intend to further strengthen and expand our relationships with strategic resellers, system integrators, managed service providers, global service providers and independent software vendors. Strengthen our customer community . Customer success is our most critical objective, and we will continue to invest in resources that our customers value. Our annual user conference Knowledge, vertical market and other user groups, online community sharing and educational programs are among the ways we collaborate with and deliver ongoing value to our customers. Our Cloud Services ServiceNow Platform The ServiceNow platform is the foundation of our cloud-based services and all of our applications are built on this one cloud platform. It provides a single data model, common services and delivers a single system of record with the ability to orchestrate actions to get work done across the enterprise. Common services provided by the platform include workflow, configuration management database, service catalog, service portal, knowledge management, reporting and analytics, data benchmarking, visual task boards, built-in and optional encryption capabilities and collaboration and developer tools. The platform also enables developers in IT and other departments across the enterprise to create, test and deploy their own applications within an integrated development environment while leveraging the single data model and common services of the platform. 2 Information Technology (IT) We have three product suites focused on meeting the challenges of enterprise IT management and operations. Our IT Service Management (ITSM) product suite defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates IT services that are offered to an enterprises employees, customers and partners. Among its capabilities, our ITSM product suite records incidents, remediates problems and oversees the management of IT resources. Our second product suite, IT Operations Management (ITOM), connects a customer's physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customer's IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premise or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. Finally, our IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customer's IT project portfolio. Customer Service Our customer service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates customer service cases and requests. It allows common customer requests such as password resets to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance, or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. Our field service management application allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. Human Resources (HR) Our HR service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates human resources services related to employee requests. HR service management capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. Security Operations Our security operations management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates security operations management requirements of third-party and other sources of security alerts from a customer's infrastructure. Security operations management capabilities include security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. Our governance, risk and compliance management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates cross-functional governance, risk and compliance workflows such as compliance controls and risk mitigation. Comprehensive Professional Services We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. Professional Services . Through ServiceNow professional services and partner professional services, we provide implementation and configuration services to drive value realization of the ServiceNow solutions. Education Services. We offer training services and certification programs for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules. Customer Support. As part of their subscription, customers receive support 24 hours a day, seven days a week around the globe, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing. 3 Our Technology and Operations We designed our cloud computing service to support global enterprises. We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. Our data centers process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base. We have a standardized Java-based development environment, with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively. Our data centers operate in a paired configuration to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. We employ technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. Our services have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2, ISO 27001 and ISO 27018 third-party attestations. Our U.S. federal services have also received a FedRAMP Provisional Authority to Operate that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base in addition to a Department of Defense Provisional Authority to Operate at Impact Level 2. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO 27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent. We offer customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements, and a minority of our customers have elected to do so. We generally provide remote installation services and customer support to customers who have installed our services on-premises at their data center similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third-party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, webinars and other customer forums where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers. We host and support large enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2016 , we had approximately 3,600 enterprise customers, including more than 30% of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2,000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care, technology and government. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the periods presented. Backlog Backlog represents future unearned revenue amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in the deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , we had backlog of approximately $1.9 billion and $1.3 billion , respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals. 4 Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single organizational entity, and therefore we manage, monitor and report our financials as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation and machine intelligence technologies. Total research and development expense was $285.2 million , $217.4 million and $148.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Competition The markets for our solutions and enterprise cloud services generally are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We compete primarily with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud solution. Accordingly, we compete with both enterprise application software vendors that provide on-premise software and with vendors providing cloud based services. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Various factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security and adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources and may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. 5 We continue to grow our patent portfolio and IP rights around the world that relate to our products, services, research and development and other activities, and our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We file patent applications to protect our IP and believe that the duration of our issued patents is sufficient when considering the expected lives of our products. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that may be issued may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our solutions. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. See Risk Factors-Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other rights could harm our business and Legal Proceedings below for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2016 , we had 4,801 full-time employees worldwide, including 1,225 in cloud operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,875 in sales and marketing, 1,054 in research and development and 647 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers' councils and also have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good and have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 6 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes report, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline, and we expect to continue to incur losses in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). We have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods; however, our revenue growth rate is declining and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we expect to continue to incur a loss in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unforeseen or unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and our ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. We have recently introduced products in new markets that are important to our growth prospects and for which we do not have a substantial operating history. If we are unsuccessful in competing in these new markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have recently introduced products in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security operations, HR service management and the use of our platform for other service management applications outside of enterprise IT. Our successful entry into these and other new markets is important to our revenue growth prospects. We do not have a substantial operating history with these products, which limits our ability to forecast operating results, and the success of our efforts to address these markets depends on many factors, including: the degree of differentiation of our products and services from those offered by more established competitors in these markets; whether our product and services offer compelling benefits and value to customers; the time-frame and quality of our research and development efforts; the rigor and effectiveness of our quality testing and controls; and our ability to successfully market and sell into new markets with which our marketing and sales personnel are less experienced. We may not have the necessary resources, including employees with the required product management, engineering, marketing and sales expertise, to compete effectively in these new markets. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, may not offer compelling customer benefits compared to competing products and services, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. In addition, the partner ecosystem for some of our new products is less developed than for our more mature products, and some of our new products require a commitment of resources and expertise by our customers, which they may lack, to ensure a successful implementation. If we are not able to successfully develop, market, sell and implement these and other newly introduced products and services to our existing customers and prospective new customers our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. 7 If we suffer a cyber-security event we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive information, including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information and credit card and other sensitive financial information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. Moreover, computer malware, viruses and hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur on our systems in the future. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As cyber-security threats develop and grow, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, the triggering of indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches. Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their own businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. 8 Our stock price can be volatile, including if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts and the price of our common stock could decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any quarterly or annual period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows, or our forward-looking financial guidance, to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors, or otherwise cause our stock price to be volatile, include: our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers requirements; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the number of new employees added; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new products and services; general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customers purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or adversely affect renewal rates; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services; the length of the sales cycle for our services; changes to our management team; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors; changes in effective tax rates; changes in the average contract term of our customer agreements and changes in billings duration; changes in our renewal and upsell rates; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration, including the tax effects of acquisitions; the impact of new accounting pronouncements, including the new revenue recognition standards that are effective for us beginning January 1, 2018; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses; and our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could impact our financial results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such determination is made. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. 9 Additionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles, changes in U.S. federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. For example, the current U.S. administration and key members of Congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the United States until those earnings are repatriated to the United States, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. Many countries are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws, such as legislation recently enacted in the United Kingdom and in Australia. In October 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development released guidance, and is expected to continue to issue guidance and proposals, that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business and which could ultimately impact our tax liabilities. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP which are subject to interpretation or changes by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future which may have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. This new standard is effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2018, and we expect the new standard to have a material impact on the timing of revenue and expense recognition for our contracts related to on-premises offerings and on our deferred commissions asset and the related amortization expense. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and our preliminary assessments are subject to change. Refer to Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on the new guidance and its potential impact on us. Adoption of this standard and any difficulties in implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could harm our financial results. We conduct significant transactions, including revenue transactions and intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may impact our consolidated revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. In addition, the June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union adversely impacted global markets, including currencies, and resulted in a decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. Volatility in exchange rates may continue as the United Kingdom negotiates its exit from the European Union. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. 10 The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively our business and operating results will be adversely affected. The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We compete primarily with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud vendors. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc. Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP and Salesforce.com. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud solution. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security operations, HR service management and use of our platform for other service management applications outside of enterprise IT, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions. We expect that smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressure, including in the IT service management market, which is our more mature offering and from which we derive the substantial majority of our revenues. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Lawsuits against us by third-parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Many companies in our industry, including our competitors and other third parties, as well as non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of patent infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. Moreover, the patent portfolios of most of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merits of the claims at issue, we may incur substantial attorneys fees and other litigation expenses and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us and we are found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease offering our products and services; modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners and obtain costly licenses on their behalf and refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Moreover, the mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the course of its conduct and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the courts, press, analysts and litigants, could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers and could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates and cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors in our common stock and could cause a substantial decline in the price of our common stock. Accordingly, any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. 11 Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have, and in the future may, initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses in defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Sales outside of North America represented approximately 32% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and will subject us to regulatory and economic risks that are different from those in the United States. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers and cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments, and we may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new Global 2000 customers, a key factor effecting our growth, has generally been lower in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established, as compared to North America, Australia and areas within Western Europe. Over time an increasing proportion of the Global 2000 companies that are not yet our customers are located in emerging markets where we are less established. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including in hiring qualified sales management personnel and managing foreign operations. Risks inherent with international sales include without limitation: compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us; longer and potentially more complex sales cycles; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; tax treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; foreign currency fluctuations which may cause transactional and translational remeasurement losses; potential changes in international trade policies and agreements; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; and localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses. If we are unable to manage these risks, if our required investments in these international markets are greater than anticipated, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing sales in emerging markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. 12 If we are unable to continuously enhance our products and services to deliver consumer product-like experiences, mobility, messaging and ease of use, they could become less competitive or obsolete and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that enterprises are increasingly focused on delivering a consumer product-like technology experience to users within the enterprise, such as employees, and to individuals interacting with the enterprise, such as customers, partners and suppliers. Accordingly, our ability to attract new customers and to renew and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to continuously enhance our products and services and provide them in ways that are broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and improve our products and services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, including for intuitive and attractive consumer product-like interfaces, use and mobility features, messaging, social networking, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. If we are unable to consistently and timely meet these requirements, our products and services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. For example, our founder and Chief Product Officer, Frederic Luddy, retired in October 2016, although he continues to serve as a member of our board of directors, and Daniel R. McGee resigned as our Chief Operating Officer in December 2016. Effective as of April 3, 2017, Frank Slootman will resign and John J. Donahoe will be appointed as our President and Chief Executive Officer, although Mr. Slootman will continue to serve as the Chairman of our board of directors. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to personal data and the Internet may adversely affect our business. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, and data sovereignty requirements concerning the location of data centers that store and process data. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the solicitation, collection, transfer, processing, storage or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers ability to use and share data, potentially restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers in connection with providing our services, and in some cases could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers ability to deploy our services globally. For example, the European Court of Justice in October 2015 issued a ruling immediately invalidating the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which our customers relied upon to facilitate the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States in compliance with applicable European data protection laws. Notwithstanding the recent adoption of the Privacy Shield Framework by the European Union and the United States, there is uncertainty surrounding how data transfers from the European Economic Area to the United States will be authorized in the future. In addition, the June 23, 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the European Union may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. Moreover, complying with the recently adopted E.U. General Data Protection Regulation or other new data protection laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices, may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries have established or may establish various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce demand for our applications and adversely affect our business. Because we recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, downturns or upturns in new sales and renewals will not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have only a small, and perhaps no apparent, impact on our revenue results for that quarter. Further, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in a quarter may not have an immediately apparent impact on billings for that quarter due to factors that may offset the decline, such as an increase in billings duration, a decline in the amount of contracts with future start dates and an increase in collections in the current quarter related to contracts with future start dates. Billings consists of amounts invoiced for contracts with new customers, upsells, renewals, backlog, professional services, training, and our Knowledge and other customer forum events. While we typically bill customers annually for our subscription services, customers sometimes request, and we accommodate, billings durations that differ from the typical twelve month term. In addition, we frequently enter into contracts with a contract start date in the future, and we exclude these amounts from billings as these amounts are not included in our consolidated balance sheets, unless such amounts have been paid as of the balance sheet date. Factors such as the weighted average billings duration and the timing of contract start dates and the timing of collections create variability in billings. Further, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any given quarter will negatively affect our revenues and billings in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. As we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We have acquired or invested in companies in the past as part of our business strategy and may continue to evaluate potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies; failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into our existing technology; potential adverse tax consequences; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; disruption to our business and diversion of management attention and other resources; potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect the market price of our common stock. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to increased liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our services to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our services to them and to grow or maintain our customer base. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we may continue to incorporate open source software into other services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our services and technologies. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our services or technologies, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our services. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure