Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS ServiceNows purpose is to make the world of work, work better for people. We believe that people should work the way they want to, so we build applications that help automate existing processes and create efficient, digitized workflows. Our products and services enable the steps of a job to flow naturally across disparate departments, systems and processes of a business. When work flows naturally, great experiences follow. We deliver digital workflows on a single enterprise cloud platform called the Now Platform. Our product portfolio is currently focused on providing Information Technology (IT), Employee and Customer workflows in pre-packaged product offerings. We also enable our customers to use the Now Platform App Engine to design and build workflow applications that are purpose built for their own business. Getting a job done in an enterprise (what we call a workflow) usually requires different people in various functions of an organization to work together. Often they rely on different technology systems and inefficient, manual processes. One example, to illustrate, is the new hire process. When a new employee is hired, he or she needs to be set up in the employers HR system of record and payroll, have a desk assigned, get a computer, get access to necessary internal systems, and perform other tasks. Successfully onboarding the new employee requires different departments of the business, utilizing different systems and databases, to coordinate and complete their specific tasks. Our digital workflow platform transforms the old, manual ways of completing these tasks. A new employees manager approves the new hires specifics in the HR systems; that approval triggers a notification to the facilities team so they can assign a desk to the new employee; that assignment triggers a notification to the IT group for computer and systems access configuration, etc. Each person acting in this workflow only needs to use the Now Platform. The digital management of this workflow is possible because our technology platform hides the complexity of working across multiple, siloed departments and systems of record to make work flow more seamlessly. This enables our customers to deliver their employees the experiences they want and their customers the service they expect. Our digital workflow management tools are applied across an enterprise and in complex and sophisticated workflows. The Now Platform is the foundation of our IT, Employee and Customer workflow offerings. The Now Platform has one code base and one data model, which allows our applications and those developed by our customers to work seamlessly with each other. Any workflow used in an enterprise is a candidate for a Now Platform-based application. Our native mobile applications greatly assist in the roll-out of automated workflows to our customers employees. Third-party developers can also build applications on the Now Platform App Engine and can make them available for download at our ServiceNow Store. We primarily deliver our software via the Internet as a service through a simple and easy-to-use interface so that we can rapidly deploy our packaged offerings, and customers can easily build their custom applications. In a minority of cases, customers choose to host our software by themselves or through a third-party service provider. 1 Table of Contents We market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our products through subscription services and primarily through direct sales. We also offer professional services, both directly and through partners, to help our customers deploy and utilize our products and platform. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated in Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. Our Products Our portfolio includes the Now Platform, and pre-packaged applications specifically designed for automating IT, Employee and Customer workflows. The Now Platform supports custom workflow creation and application development (the Now Platform App Engine) and a third-party application marketplace (the ServiceNow Store). Each of our products and services helps in critical aspects of our customers digital transformation process, and some of these products and services, as captured in the graphic and described below, are used in multiple workflows. 2 Table of Contents The Now Platform and Now Platform App Engine The Now Platform allows our customers to manage workflows across all of their systems using a common user interface. This allows us to deliver specific enterprise applications and services (e.g., employee on-boarding as described above), which spans multiple departments, back-end systems and processes across an organization. Among the many services that our platform supports are workflow automation, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, performance analytics, encryption and collaboration and development tools. All of our products are built on the Now Platform, which allows our customers to create a common user experience to manage workflows across all of their systems. The Now Platform also powers three native mobile experiences for everyday work across the enterprise: Virtual Agent, Now Mobile and Mobile Onboarding. Enterprises can take advantage of consumer-like, mobile experiences, such as getting help from human resources or ordering a computer, from our platform. Our goal is to make our customers work lives as simple, easy and mobile-friendly as their personal lives. 3 Table of Contents Our platform also features the Now Platform App Engine, which enables customers and third-party developers to create, test and deploy their own applications. They can do so within an integrated development environment while leveraging the single data model and common services of the Now Platform. Examples of applications our customers have developed include: an application developed by a company with a large network of seasonal retail stores and offices to track progress and identify issues in opening and closing their seasonal retail stores and offices, which enabled significant cost savings; an application developed by the IT office of a university that allocated and billed costs associated with IT maintenance, allowing the university to retire multiple legacy software systems; and an application developed by a mortgage company to ensure that loan files were complete and accurate prior to packaging and selling the loans to investors. These types of applications which extend the automation of our customers workflows have been developed and deployed by our customers and third-party developers using the Now Platform App Engine, and many are available through our marketplace (ServiceNow Store). The ServiceNow Store has hundreds of certified, ready to use applications from a growing independent software vendor ecosystem. The ServiceNow Store enables departments across an enterprise to do more with the Now Platform with certified applications that complement and extend the Now Platform into new use cases. IT Workflows Our companys roots are in IT workflows. Our founder initially saw a need for an integrated system in IT that identified issues, assigned those issues to the right people for resolution and remediated any systemic problems that created the issues. Our IT products have become increasingly sophisticated in assisting IT departments to serve their customers, manage their networks, identify and remediate threats and develop and build their products. With our IT workflows, we help customers bridge the gap between traditional IT practices and the needs of modern businesses. The following is an overview of the IT workflow products we offer; many of these products are also used in our Employee and Customer workflows. Now IT Service Management As our flagship product suite, IT Service Management (ITSM) defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the IT services an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. Among the ITSM product suites capabilities are recording incidents, remediating problems and automating routine tasks and requests. With ITSM, our customers can elevate their IT service experience by improving IT productivity, achieving new insights and consolidating IT services. For example, we enable our customers to provide service portals where their employees can request IT services, order software and hardware and submit IT incidents all in one place. Now IT Business Management Our IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customers IT project portfolio. With ITBM, we help our customers gain visibility, track progress, and continuously plan and optimize resources as priorities shift. Now DevOps Our enterprise DevOps product provides visibility across a product development toolchain. It integrates with the leading DevOps toolchains to provide automated change management, information gathering and collecting and a single dashboard across planning, development, testing, deployment and operations. With DevOps, our customers can streamline their software development and deployment processes. Now IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management (ITOM) product suite connects a customers physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customers IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. With ITOM, our customers can enhance visibility of IT resources, manage service health and optimize cloud delivery and spend. 4 Table of Contents Now IT Asset Management Our IT Asset Management (ITAM) product automates customers IT asset lifecycles with workflows to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of IT and non-IT assets throughout their lifecycles. With ITAM, our customers gain visibility into the full IT asset lifecycle to help optimize costs and automate workflows. Now Security Operations Our security operations product connects with internal and third-party security alerts from a customers infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customers business. Our security operations product includes security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. With our security operations product, we help simplify our customers incident response by allowing them to replace manual tasks with automated security orchestration and to prioritize and remediate vulnerabilities and security incidents. Now Integrated Risk Management Our integrated risk management product creates a common set of policies and controls to help our customers meet the requirements of an ever-expanding regulatory environment. It also allows our customers to be more resilient and monitor risk and compliance events in real time to take action to remediate and mitigate risks. With our integrated risk management product, customers can assess risk and make strategic decisions with confidence by being able to continuously monitor and prioritize risks. Employee Workflows Our Employee workflow products provide service at every stage of an employees engagement with an employer. With our Employee Workflows, our customers can simplify how their employees get the services they need, to help improve employee satisfaction and boost productivity. We enable Employee workflows through our Now HR Service Delivery and Now Finance Operations Management products, in addition to ITSM. Now HR Service Delivery Our HR service delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR service delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. For example, tasks that start in HR but require action from other departments, such as new hire equipment selection and fulfillment, can be easily automated and orchestrated. With HR service delivery, we make it easy for our customers employees to get the services they need, allowing our customers to use fewer resources to serve more employees, streamline employee lifecycle events, and increase visibility, staffing efficiency and delivery of services. Now Finance Operations Management Our finance operations management product and its first application, Finance Close Automation (FCA), are built for the office of the CFO. FCA is designed to complement enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and digitize workflows to accelerate the financial statement close process and reduce financial close risks. With FCA, our customers can connect their finance teams, tasks and systems in a centralized workspace and manage their financial systems more effectively. 5 Table of Contents Customer Workflows Our Customer workflow products help enterprises create a seamless experience for their customers - from identifying a customer issue to resolving that issue and its underlying cause. With our Customer workflows, we help our customers increase customer loyalty and, in some cases, fix issues before they are known to their customers. We enable Customer workflows through Now Customer Service Management and Now Field Service Management products, in addition to ITOM. Now Customer Service Management Our customer service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates customer service cases and requests. It allows common customer requests, such as password resets, to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. With customer service management, we help our customers elevate their customer service by boosting resolution efficiency and improving service quality through service automation and management. Now Field Service Management Our field service management product allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. With field service management, we help our customers efficiently manage location-based work tasks, including dynamic scheduling and visual dispatch. Professional Services Our professional services include expert services and customer success programs, offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners, to help customers become proficient in the use of our platform and to maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Expert services include process design (including identifying inefficiencies in existing workflows), implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. Our focus is on supporting customers as they embark on enterprise digital transformations to reimagine their service management strategy and roadmap. Customer success programs include training and certification programs for all of our products, expertise from support professionals and our Customer Success Center, an online resource. Customer Support As part of their subscription, customers receive support 24 hours a day, seven days a week around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online incident filing. Our Technology and Operations We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. We have a standardized, Java-based development environment, with the majority of our software written in industry-standard software programming languages. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. Our operating system is Linux and databases are MySQL and MariaDB. We host our full software-as-a-service experience on our own private cloud and intend to host it using public cloud service providers for certain highly regulated customers. Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies. We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements, and, while there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected this alternative. The customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers. 6 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We sell our product offerings and services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed services providers and resale partners. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including regional forums which we call Now@Work, where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to educate them on industry best practices and help accelerate their success with our services. We continue to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources, post-sales customer support resources and strategic alliance and implementation partners. We also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers, and we host and support large, enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 6,200 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, telco, education and consumer products. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the periods presented. Remaining Performance Obligations Our remaining performance obligations (RPO) were $6.6 billion and $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. RPO represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenue and non-cancelable amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We believe RPO, which excludes customer deposits and time and materials contracts, is an indicator of customer backlog orders believed to be firm that is aligned with the current revenue recognition standard. Refer to Note 9 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on remaining performance obligations. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and validation of our solutions. We focus on innovating and developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. Using emerging technologies, we can anticipate customer demands and then bring new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies. Acquisitions and Investments In addition to continuing to invest in our own research and development efforts, we have made acquisitions and investments in the past and will continue to assess opportunities for strategic acquisitions and investments to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. Our focus is on building out our platform and products through both acquisitions and investments to support customer needs. Competition We compete in markets that are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As these markets continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter such markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include: 7 Table of Contents large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors; new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways; solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools; vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service providers and development operations; and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. Accordingly, we compete with both cloud-based and traditional, enterprise-application, software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets, we expect increasing competition from platform and application development vendors focused on these markets. Various factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security, adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. An existing competitor or potential competitor could introduce new technology, or more effectively utilize existing technology, that reduces demand for our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors may also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other offerings, which may enable them to offer their products and services at a lower price. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of U.S. and international copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. In certain of our partnership arrangements, our partners may develop technology on the Now Platform that may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property rights that we may agree to with the partner. We continue to grow our global patent portfolio and IP rights that relate to our platform, applications, services, research and development and other activities. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We have over 700 U.S. and foreign patents, including patents acquired from third parties, and over 780 pending patent applications. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or other IP right or group of related patents or IP rights. We file patent applications to protect our IP and have and may continue to acquire additional patents, patent portfolios, or patent applications. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that have been or may be issued or acquired may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon them. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality similar to ours. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we operate may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our IP rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from utilizing their developments to compete with us. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. 8 Table of Contents Our industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other IP rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other IP rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility, expanding solutions footprint, and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of IP infringement claims. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. See Risk FactorsLawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had 10,371 full-time employees worldwide. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers councils and have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements. Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations/sec-filings.html as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. Our stock price could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business We participate in intensely competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for digital workflow products matures and new technologies and competitors enter the market, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include: large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors; new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways; solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools; vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service and development operations; and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships (including at the executive level of large enterprises where decision-making authority is held), larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. While we believe that our platform and products can largely be complementary to large and established systems that traditionally operate as systems of record, competitors may try to enter our space. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. They may utilize acquisitions, integrations or consolidations to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality or other advantages. They may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions, causing our products to appear relatively more expensive. They may also invest in industry-specific solutions that purport to provide a unique solution for that industry. Other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services, or we may shift our products and services to compete with current and future competitors in adjacent markets. We have in the past expanded, and we expect to continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets and the use of our platform by developers of custom applications. As a result, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and application development vendors focused on these other markets. Smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressures, including in the ITSM market, which is our more mature offering and from which we derive a large portion of our revenues. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to data and the Internet may adversely affect our business. National and local governments or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, the use of data in contexts referred to as artificial intelligence and machine learning, and data sovereignty requirements concerning the location of data centers that store and process data. As a cloud based service provider, we optimize performance of our products and services by utilizing data centers that may be located in different political jurisdictions. In addition, we utilize data concerning the use of our products and services to continually improve our offering. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the collection, transfer, processing, storage or use of data, including personal data, could affect our ability to develop our products and services to maximize their utility, as well as our customers ability to use and share data, potentially restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers in connection with providing our services. In some cases, this could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers ability to deploy our services globally. Examples of recent changes include: 10 Table of Contents In 2016, the European Union (the EU) adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which took effect in May 2018 and established new requirements applicable to the handling of personal data. The particular obligations imposed by GDPR are subject to interpretation, and different regulators may interpret requirements inconsistently. Further, laws such as the EUs proposed e-Privacy Regulation are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information , the tracking of individuals online activities and the right to be forgotten, requiring a company to delete certain information about individuals upon their request in certain circumstances. In January 2020, Britain exited the EU (Brexit). Although we do not believe Brexit will require us to alter our operations in any material way to comply with privacy regulations in the EU and the United Kingdom (the UK), Brexit has and may continue to cause uncertainty for our customers. In early 2020, the European Court of Justice is expected to give its ruling on a case regarding the validity of the Privacy Shield framework and the Standard Contractual Clauses (the SCCs), which are lawful transfer mechanisms for transferring personal data from the EU to the US (under the Privacy Shield framework) and other third countries deemed to have inadequate protection by the European Commission (under the SCCs). While we do not believe there will be any material impact to our business if the Privacy Shield is invalidated, there may be an impact to our ability to process personal data in certain jurisdictions where we operate if the SCCs are invalidated by the European Court of Justice. In January 2020,the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA) in the US took effect and broadly defines personal information and provides California consumers increased privacy rights and protections. The CCPA, among other things, affords California consumers new abilities to opt out of certain sales of personal information. Legislators have amended the CCPA since it passed in 2018 and implementing regulations are yet to be finalized by the California Attorney General. In addition, other nations and U.S. states and the federal government have discussed, are passing or may pass, future legislation similar to the GDPR and/or the CCPA, or with other data localization or sovereignty requirements. Both US and non-US governments are considering the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in both consumer and business contexts and whether there is any need for regulation in these areas. The costs of compliance with, and other obligations imposed by, the GDPR, the e-Privacy Regulation, the CCPA and other privacy, data residency and data transfer laws, regulations and standards may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices and/or policies, may limit the development, use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings or investigations against us by regulatory authorities or others, lead to significant fines or reputational harm and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, the GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. If we fail to comply with the GDPR or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the GDPR, we may be subject to fines of up to 4% of our worldwide annual revenue. Changes in our developed or acquired products and how such products utilize data could alter or increase our compliance requirements. As a result, the cost of compliance with and other obligations imposed by privacy regulations could increase and our innovation and business drivers in developing or acquiring new and emerging technologies and the demand for our products could be impacted. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and other technology and industry groups have established or may establish various new or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional obligations on us. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents If we do not accurately predict, prepare for, and respond promptly to rapidly evolving technological, market and customer developments, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. We compete in markets that continue to evolve rapidly. The pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their purchases on digital technologies and capabilities, including public and private cloud solutions and infrastructure, massively scalable databases, mobile, consumer product-like user experiences, social, collaboration, machine learning, artificial intelligence, Internet-connected devices, high-velocity robotic automation, security, cryptography, internal software development operations, and application and service awareness. Our customers and prospective customers must choose among competing imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or have been built on fully-digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies. Accordingly, to compete effectively, we must: identify and innovate in the right emerging technologies, knowing that we cannot make substantial investments in all of them; accurately predict our customers changing business needs, priorities and adoption practices, including their technology infrastructures and buying and budgetary practices; invest in and continually optimize our own technology platform so that it continues to meet the very high performance expectations of our customers; successfully deliver new, scalable platform and database technologies and products to meet these needs and priorities; efficiently integrate with other technologies within our customers digital environments; expand our offerings into industries and to buyers who are not familiar with our offerings; profitably market and sell products to companies and buyers in markets where our sales and marketing teams have less experience, including to companies built on fully-digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies that have not been strong buyers of ITSM and ITOM products; and effectively deliver, either directly or through our partner ecosystem, the business process planning, IT systems architecture planning, and product implementation services that our customers require to be successful. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position, strategic relevance and business prospects may be harmed. Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, new or updated products may slow the adoption of our most recent technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide our services, decrease customer satisfaction, and adversely impact sales of additional products to our customers. We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introduction. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed. We do business with federal, state and local governments and agencies, and heavily-regulated U.S. and foreign organizations; as a result, we face risks related to the procurement process, budget decisions driven by statutory and regulatory determinations, termination of contracts, and compliance with government contracting requirements. We provide products and services to the U.S. government, state and local governments and heavily-regulated organizations directly and through our partners. We have made, and may continue to make, significant investments to support future sales opportunities in the federal, state and local government sectors. This includes obtaining additional cloud security certification requirements for the ServiceNow GovCommunityCloud, such as the U.S. Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) High Impact Provisional Authority to Operate (P-ATO) from the Joint Authorization Board, and the U.S. Department of Defense Impact Level 4 P-ATO in the Security Requirements Guide for cloud computing by the Defense Information Systems Agency. However, government certification requirements may change, or we may be unable to achieve or sustain one or more government certifications, including those mentioned above. As a result, our ability to sell into the government sector could be restricted until we obtain such certifications. A substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution and reseller partners. Doing business with government entities presents a variety of risks. The procurement process for governments and their agencies is highly competitive, time-consuming and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to political influence. We incur significant up-front time and expense, such as through engaging lobbyists, which subjects us to additional compliance risks and costs, without any assurance that we (or a third-party distributor or reseller) will win a contract. Beyond this, demand for our products and services may be adversely impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability that in any given fiscal cycle may be reduced or delayed, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown. Further, if we are or our partner is successful in receiving a bid award, that award could be challenged by one or more competitive bidders. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. In the event a bid protest is unsuccessful, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 12 Table of Contents In addition, public sector customers may have contractual, statutory or regulatory rights to terminate current contracts with us or our third-party distributors or resellers for convenience or due to a default, though such risk may be assumed by such third-party distributor or reseller. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to a default, we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services or be precluded from doing further business with government entities. Further, entities providing services to governments are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, or performance of government contracts that give public sector customers substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. These may include rights with respect to price protection, the accuracy of information provided to the government, contractor compliance with supplier diversity policies, and other terms that are particular to government contracts, such as termination rights. These rules may apply to us and/or third-party resellers or distributors whose practices we may not control. Such parties non-compliance could impose repercussions with respect to contractual and customer satisfaction issues. In addition, federal, state, and local governments routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with these requirements. If, as a result of an audit, it is determined that we have failed to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines, and suspensions or debarment from future government business, and we may suffer reputational harm. Further, we are increasingly doing business in heavily regulated industries, such as the financial services and health care industries. Current and prospective customers, such as those in these industries, may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements toward third-party vendors generally, or our company in particular, that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. In addition, customers in these heavily-regulated areas often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products and practices. In the event that one or more customers determines that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business. Our customers also include a number of non-U.S. governments, to which similar procurement, budgetary, contract, and audit risks of U.S. government contracting also apply, particularly in certain emerging markets where our customer base is less established. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on our network of partners for an increasing portion of our revenues, and if these partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products may be limited, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. An increasing portion of our revenues is generated by sales through our network of partners, including managed service providers and resellers. In addition, we increasingly rely on our partners to provide professional services, including customer implementations. While we provide our partners with training and programs, including accreditations and certifications, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently. In addition, new partners may require extensive training and may require significant time and resources to achieve productivity. Our partners may subject us to lawsuits, potential liability, and reputational harm if, for example, any of our partners misrepresent the functionality of our platform or products to customers, fail to perform services to our customers expectations, or violate laws or our corporate policies. In addition, our partners may utilize our platform to develop products and services that could potentially compete with products and services that we offer currently or in the future. Concerns over competitive matters or intellectual property ownership could constrain these partnerships. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of partners, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their service delivery, our ability to sell our products and efficiently provide our services may be impacted, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. 13 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Sales outside of North America represented approximately 34% of our total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 . Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues. The failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and subjects us to different regulatory, political and economic risks from those in the United States (the US). We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers, cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments. We may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new large enterprise customers, a factor affecting our growth, has generally been lower in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established and where there may be increased or changing regulations and operational and intellectual property risks, as compared to North America, Australia and Western Europe. An increasing proportion of the large enterprises that are not yet our customers are located in emerging markets where we are less established. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including hiring qualified sales management personnel, penetrating the target market, anticipating and ensuring compliance with regulatory developments, and managing foreign operations in such locales. Risks inherent with making our products and services available in international markets include without limitation: compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, requirements to have local partner(s), local entity ownership limitations, technology transfer or sharing requirements, data residency and transfer laws and regulations, privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including the GDPR; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA); the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our local employees or business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us or damage to our reputation; longer and potentially more complex sales and accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; tax treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; different pricing and distribution environments; foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause transactional and translational remeasurement losses; potential changes in international trade policies, tariffs, agreements and practices, including the adoption and expansion of formal or informal trade restrictions or regulatory frameworks favoring local competitors; potential threatening state-sponsored actions, including cybersecurity threats directed at local data centers, customers or end-users; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; and localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses. If we are unable to manage these risks, if our required investments in these international markets are greater than anticipated, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing sales in emerging markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents As we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We have acquired or invested in companies and technologies in the past as part of our business strategy and may continue to evaluate and execute potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of or investments in businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings, functionality or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Although we conduct reasonably extensive due diligence with each of the entities we engage for a strategic transaction, our due diligence efforts may not reveal every material concern that may exist either with respect to the target entity or our assumptions surrounding the resulting combination. These strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including: assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies; failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment; potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; potential adverse tax consequences; disruption to our business and diversion of management attention and other resources; potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers; dependence on acquired technologies or licenses for which alternatives may not be available to us without significant cost or complexity; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; increased data privacy or security compliance requirements resulting from integrating the acquired technology or company with ours; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or our stock price. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect our stock price. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business If we or our third-party service providers suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and, in some cases, government information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may be breached because of employee error or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties have attempted and may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers data, and we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Additionally, because we do not control our third-party service providers or their processing of data, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of measures they take to protect customer information and prevent data loss. Computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and they have occurred on our and our third-party service providers systems in the past and may occur again on these systems in the future. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not detected until successfully launched against a target, we have been and may continue to be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures; however, as cyber-security threats develop and grow more complex over time, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, the triggering of service availability, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs and operational consequences of investigating, remediating, eliminating, complying with notice obligations and implementing additional measures designed to prevent actual or perceived security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Further, in most instances, our customers administer access to the data held in their particular instance for their employees and service providers. We offer tools and support for what we believe are best practices to maintain security utilizing our services, but customers are not required to utilize those tools or follow our suggested practices. As a result, or for other reasons, a customer may suffer a cyber-security event on its own systems, unrelated to our own, and allow a malicious actor to obtain access to the customers information held on our platform. Even if such a breach is unrelated to our security programs or practices, such breach could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, eliminating and implementing additional measures to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, and could result in reputational harm to us. If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and many key individual contributors. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. For example, our current President and Chief Executive Officer was appointed in November 2019 and our current Chief Financial Officer was appointed in January 2020. While we seek to manage these transitions carefully, including by establishing strong processes and procedures and succession planning, such changes may result in a loss of institutional knowledge and cause disruptions to our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, and we may experience increased compensation and training costs that may not be offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly-skilled employees with appropriate qualifications, and may not be able to fill positions in desired geographic areas or at all. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London, Amsterdam and Hyderabad, our primary operating locations, is intense. Many of our employees, including all of our executive officers, are employed at-will and may terminate their employment with us at any time. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents In addition, we believe our corporate culture of fostering innovation, teamwork and employee satisfaction has been a key contributor to our success to date. As we continue to grow and expand globally, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could harm our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, flooding, fire, power shortages, pandemics such as the recent spread of the coronavirus, terrorism, political unrest, telecommunications failure, vandalism, cyber-attacks, geopolitical instability, war, the effects of climate change (such as drought, wildfires, increased storm severity and sea level rise) and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, could decrease demand for our services, and could cause us to incur substantial expense. Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses or additional expense that we may sustain. The majority of our research and development activities, corporate offices, information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults in California and Washington. Customer data could be lost, significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected in the event of a major natural disaster or catastrophic event. Various factors, including our customers business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. Our business depends upon the successful implementation of our products by our customers. Increasingly, we and our customers rely on our network of partners to deliver implementation services, and there may not be enough qualified implementation partners available to meet customer demand. Further, our customers business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, or other factors may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. For example, changes in the functional requirements of our customers, delays in timeline, or deviations from recommended best practices may occur during the course of an implementation project. As a result of these and other risks, we or our customers may incur significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase, implementation and enablement of our products. Some customer implementations may take longer than planned or fail to meet our customers expectations, which may delay our ability to sell additional products or result in customers canceling or failing to renew their subscriptions before our products have been fully implemented. Some customers may lack the employee talent or organizational capacity to manage a digital transformation such as our offering and, as a consequence, may be unable to see the benefits of our products. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, reputational harm, and opportunities for competitors to displace our products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Disruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in developing, delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data centers operated by several different providers located around the world, and we plan to serve certain of our customers using data center facilities operated by public cloud service providers. These data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error or negligence. Despite precautions taken at these centers, problems at these centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. Similarly, customers may have unique requirements for system resiliency that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. The occurrence of payment delays, service credit, warranty or termination for material breach or other claims against us could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our service level credit accruals, other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We may not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. Risks Related to the Financial Performance or Financial Position of Our Business Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any quarterly or annual period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason, either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our financial performance to vary widely, or cause our forward-looking financial guidance to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors, include: our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers requirements; changes in our mix of products and services, including changes in our mix of cloud and self-hosted offerings, market penetration of our products, or use of our products by our customers; our ability to increase sales of certain emerging products; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposure; the rate of expansion, retention and productivity of our sales force; the number of new employees added; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new products and services; general economic conditions that may adversely affect our customers or a prospective customers purchasing decisions; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements; the length and complexity of the sales cycle and certification process for our services, especially for sales to larger enterprises, government and regulated organizations; changes in the size and complexity of our customer relationships; changes to our management, sales and account management teams as we scale and as a result of evolving business priorities; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; 18 Table of Contents significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions or products introduced by our competitors; changes in effective tax rates; changes in the average contract term of our customer agreements, timing of renewals, renewal rates, expansion within our existing customers and billings duration; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration, including the tax effects of acquisitions; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; our ability to comply with privacy laws and regulations, including the GDPR and the CCPA; significant litigation or regulatory actions relating to claims of intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy laws, employment matters or any other significant matter; the amount and timing of equity awards and the related financial statement expenses; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services. Lawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Many companies in our industry, including our competitors, other third parties and non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of patent infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. Moreover, the patent portfolios of many of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, we recorded charges for aggregate legal settlements of $270.0 million in our consolidated statement of comprehensive loss during the year ended December 31, 2016. The charges covered the fulfillment by us of all financial obligations under settlement agreements with BMC and HPE, with no remaining financial obligations to BMC or HPE under either settlement. In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merits of the claims at issue, we may incur substantial attorneys fees and other litigation expenses and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us and we are found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and/or make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease offering our products and services; modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners and obtain costly licenses on their behalf and refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Further, upon expiration of the term of any third-party agreements that allow us to use their intellectual property, we may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms, if at all, in which case we may face intellectual property litigation. The mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the course of its conduct and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the courts, press, analysts and litigants could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers. This could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates, cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors and cause a substantial decline in our stock price. Any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and similar laws of other countries, and general trade regulations, including but not limited to economic sanctions and embargoes, we could be subject to penalties and civil and/or criminal sanctions and our business could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the UK Bribery Act, and possibly other anti-bribery laws in countries in which we conduct activities. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws that prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from promising, authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties, and private-sector recipients for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, directing business to any person, or securing any advantage. In addition, we use various third parties to sell our products and services and conduct our business both in the US and abroad. We or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We have implemented and continue to update an anti-corruption compliance program but there is a risk that our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, could take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we will inevitably do more business with large enterprises and the public sector in countries that are perceived to have heightened levels of public sector corruption. Increased business in countries perceived to have heightened levels of corruption could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability from our business operations. In addition, we are subject to compliance with general trade regulations relating to doing business outside the US, including certain restrictions on conducting trade in certain restricted countries or with certain entities or individuals. Any violation of the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or general trade regulations by our employees or our third-party intermediaries could result in regulatory investigations, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage and/or severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, and prospects. In addition, responding to any enforcement action may result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under patent and other intellectual property protections of the US and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents acquired in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer services. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the US, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights or available remedies may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have initiated and, in the future, may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to possible litigation. Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software into other products and services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products and services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and services. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our products and services, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our products and services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from distributing our products and services. Because we generally recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, a decrease in new subscriptions or renewals during a reporting period may not be immediately reflected in our operating results for that period. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. Net new annual contract value from new subscriptions and expansion contracts entered into during a period can generally be expected to generate revenues for the duration of the subscription term. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each period are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions in any single reporting period will have a limited impact on our revenues for that period. In addition, our ability to adjust our cost structure in the event of a decrease in new or renewed subscriptions may be limited. Further, a decline in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a given period may not be fully reflected in our revenues for that period, but they will negatively affect our revenues in future periods. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers are generally recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, due to the complexity of certain of our customer contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment required under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) depends on contract-specific terms and may result in greater variability in revenues from period to period. In addition, a decrease in new subscriptions, expansion contracts or renewals in a reporting period may not have an immediate impact on billings for that period due to factors that may offset the decrease, such as an increase in billings duration, the dollar value of contracts with future start dates, or the dollar value of collections in the current period related to contracts with future start dates. As our business grows, we expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline. We have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods; however, our longer-term revenue growth rate is declining, and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our strategic priorities, which may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior periods as any indication of our future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile. Changes in our effective tax rate or rejection of our tax position in jurisdictions outside the US could have a material impact on our financial position and results. We are subject to income taxes in the US and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles or changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law, which could affect our results of operations in the period issued. Many countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. Recent global tax developments applicable to multinational businesses and increased scrutiny under tax examinations could have a material impact on our business and negatively affect our financial results. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period. Further, many of our most important intangible assets are held outside the US and are subject to inter-company agreements regarding the development and distribution of those assets to other jurisdictions. While we believe that our position is appropriate and well founded, in the event that our position was to be successfully challenged by taxing authorities in other jurisdictions, we may become subject to significant tax liabilities, which could harm our financial position and financial results. We may incur losses in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) during future periods. Although we have reported results that were profitable on a GAAP basis for full-year 2019 and certain prior quarters, we have incurred net losses in all prior fiscal years since our inception. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we may incur losses in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. We may also encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. As a result of these and other factors, we may not maintain profitability in the future, and our gross margins and ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to increase our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the reasonable assurance level of our disclosure