Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, would, could, should, intend and expect, variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I and elsewhere herein, and in other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). While forward-looking statements are based on the reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview ServiceNow is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services across the global enterprise. Our mission is to help the modern enterprise operate faster and be more scalable by applying a service-oriented lens to the activities, tasks and processes that comprise day-to-day work life. Our solutions, and the custom solutions built by our customers and partners, all of which are delivered through our highly flexible and scalable platform, are empowering enterprises to change the way people work. In 2004, ServiceNow pioneered the cloud-based delivery of information technology (IT) service management applications that helped enterprises define and structure services and workflows, provide an intuitive user experience and knowledge base, implement service delivery, establish service level agreements and provide analytics. Today, we provide cloud-based service management and business management solutions that address the needs of many departments within an enterprise, including IT, human resources (HR), facilities, field service, marketing, customer service, security, legal and finance. Our service management solutions are built on our proprietary platform that also allows customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented applications for use in departments across the enterprise. We also provide a suite of IT operations management (ITOM) solutions that enhance visibility of business services and infrastructure with a single system of record, increase service availability and maximize operational agility. By capturing and correlating service and infrastructure events across multiple IT systems and monitoring tools, our ITOM solutions help enterprises easily detect and diagnose service issues and restore services more quickly. Through the use of predictive analytics, our ITOM solutions can also predict infrastructure and business service issues, resulting in a less reactive and more proactive IT organization. We deliver our software applications via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer-like interface, which means they can be rapidly deployed and easily configured. We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. We sell our solutions primarily through direct sales and to a lesser extent through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. Key Business Benefits Key customer benefits of our services include: Availability, security and scalability . Our service is designed to provide our customers with the highest level of performance and security. Our single-instance application architecture, customer-dedicated databases and advanced high 1 availability infrastructure reduces maintenance windows, isolates customer impact and allows for high scalability. We further provide a level of transparency by providing our customers with the real availability of their ServiceNow instance. Automation. Our platform facilitates the implementation of work through standardized and automated workflows that improve the speed and accuracy of service delivery within the enterprise and decrease inefficiencies. Extensibility. Our common data model and ease of customization and development enable customers to leverage their existing ServiceNow implementations to expand into additional service management applications and functionality across the enterprise. Speed and ease of implementation. We offer a comprehensive set of feature-rich service management applications delivered via the cloud that enable rapid and cost-effective implementation of solutions. Governance and compliance. Our solutions facilitate the consolidation of previously disparate applications thereby enabling integrated auditing, governance, transparency and reporting. Our powerful reporting features deliver visibility into key costs and service performance, including access to key performance indicators (KPIs), benchmarking and executive dashboards. User satisfaction. Through a mobile-enabled, consumerized storefront with personalized dashboards and reporting and embedded user self-help and collaboration features, we can increase user satisfaction and use of service management applications. Expertise. We provide access to highly skilled professional services, training, technical support, and dedicated peer support engagement programs, including annual user conferences, local user groups, special interest groups, online forums and blogs, collaboration and knowledge sharing for end users, partners and application developers. Our Strategy ServiceNow is changing the way people work by removing dependencies on inefficient manual processes to manage the flow of work within the corporate environment. Our goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud computing solutions to automate service management across the enterprise. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Enhancing our solutions. We intend to continue to enhance our solutions with new features and functions through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. We typically offer multiple upgrades each year that allow our customers to benefit from ongoing innovation. Expanding into new categories. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering our service management solutions in new categories, including most recently security and customer service. Expanding our customer base. We believe the global market for next-generation service management is underserved, and we will continue to make investments to capture market share. To expand our customer base, we will invest in our direct sales force and strategic resellers as well as our infrastructure and capacity, including our data center footprint. Extending our relationships with existing customers . We intend to increase the number of subscription licenses purchased by our current customers as they expand their use of the ServiceNow solution and deploy additional purchased and custom-built applications to manage more services across their enterprise. Expanding internationally . We have eight paired data centers on five continents. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, data centers, professional services, customer support and implementation partners. We also plan to increase investment in our existing international locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Strengthening our customer community . Our customer community contributes to our success through their willingness to share their ServiceNow experiences with other potential customers. We host our annual user conference, Knowledge, to support our customer community and encourage collaboration. Also, our ServiceNow Community and Share websites provide an online forum for customers, partners and ServiceNow employees to interact and collaborate, as well as share custom applications and other ServiceNow platform content. We will continue to leverage our customer community to expose our existing customers to new use cases and increase awareness of our service management solutions. 2 Developing our partner ecosystem . We intend to further develop our existing partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with strategic resellers, system integrators, global service providers and independent software vendors to provide broader customer coverage, access to senior executives and solution delivery capabilities, as well as extending the breadth of application coverage through complementary partner offerings. Encouraging development on our extensible platform . Our platform is currently being used by customers to address the needs of various departments within an organization, including IT, HR, customer service, security, facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance organizations. We plan to continue to enhance our platform to enable the creation of business applications by customers and partners. In addition, we have provided independent software vendors and other partners with the ServiceNow Store to market and sell any applications they develop for current and future customers. Enterprise Service Management Solutions Service Management Our service management solutions help enterprises define and deliver services through an intuitive service experience while ensuring service availability and providing critical service metrics. Although we provide applications specific to IT, HR, customer service, security, facilities and field services, our service management solutions are also adopted by marketing, legal and finance departments looking to manage services in the contemporary workplace. Each of these solutions includes the foundational capabilities of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Request Management, Service Catalog and Knowledge Base, allowing organizations to offer their employees a familiar user experience consistent with that of consumer applications typically encountered outside of the enterprise. Our core service management solutions are as follows: IT Service Management solutions give IT managers and administrators end-to-end visibility into processes and infrastructure through a single system of record for IT, provided by our configuration management database (CMDB) that forms the core of all of our solutions. This enables IT to consolidate and automate service management processes, increase efficiency, lower costs and devote more time to creating and delivering the consumer-like experiences that users expect. HR Service Management solutions help transform HR service delivery through a modernized employee experience, greater productivity for HR and improvement in overall quality of service. Our solution enables organizations to provide a unified view of all HR services through easy to use portals, helps HR teams effectively address questions and manage requests from employees through HR case management and knowledge management, and automates employee lifecycle events such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. Customer Service Management solutions apply service management discipline to customer service and support for external customers and partners. Our solutions provide a single system to manage the customer service and support relationship from initial engagement through final resolution, thereby helping to improve customer satisfaction and to build loyalty through complete service transparency and consistent service delivery. This accelerates resolution through a single view of the entire service lifecycle. Security Operations solutions use the advanced workflow and systems management inherent in the ServiceNow platform and seamlessly integrate with other ServiceNow solutions such as ServiceWatch Mapping and ServiceNow Performance Analytics. The result is a single-source-of-truth response platform that connects disparate sources of security alerts from applications and services provided by leading vendors and helps security organizations prioritize vulnerabilities, systematically manage security incidents, adapt to changing conditions in threat behavior and automate remediation. Facilities Service Management solutions help facilities teams prioritize, standardize and manage their tasks, thereby reducing the burden of reactive, day-to-day operations and increasing productivity, optimizing resource utilization and reducing costs. Field Service Management solutions ensure that work orders are dispatched to the right person, with the right inventory and tools, at the right time. Business Management Our Business Management solutions help enterprises manage costs, projects, compliance and vendors. Our solutions consolidate business data into a single system of record, enabling enterprises to more effectively align investments, utilize resources, automate management of projects, ensure regulatory compliance and manage business relationships. 3 Our core business management solutions are as follows: Financial Management provides a way for IT to gain insight into spending by mapping actual costs to consumption or usage across business services, applications, projects and infrastructure. It allows chief information officers (CIOs) to ensure IT costs are correctly aligned to business goals. Project Portfolio Suite provides the capabilities to plan, organize and manage projects, including associated tasks and resources. Demand Management centralizes strategic requests from the business and streamlines the investment decision process for new products and services. Software Development Lifecycle provides the capabilities to manage the software development and maintenance process, from product inception to deployment. Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) provides clarity into compliance and audit initiatives, helps companies mitigate compliance exposure, and automates the work of organizations rising to the challenge of complex regulatory environments. Performance Analytics drives continual service improvement across the enterprise by helping organizations analyze process performance and discover trends in service management. By leveraging trusted, in-platform data, our solution gives companies the real-time, actionable insights needed to make business decisions resulting in higher service quality and reduced service delivery cost. ServiceNow Platform The ServiceNow platform is the foundation of all of our solutions, integrating all business applications leveraging one user interface, one code base and one data model to create a single system of record. It provides core capabilities to both ServiceNow developed applications and to third-party applications developed on the platform. These capabilities include the critical differentiators of our offerings such as workflow, configuration management database (CMDB), service catalog, knowledge management, reporting, visual task boards, collaboration tools, security, and developer tools. The Platform Runtime developer tools reduce the complexities and inefficiencies of developing applications for our customers business. Utilizing a comprehensive set of platform services, developers in IT and departments across the enterprise, such as legal, marketing, HR and finance, can quickly build, test and deploy customer-specific applications for every department in the enterprise. ServiceNow Store is an enterprise application marketplace for ServiceNow certified third party business applications built on the ServiceNow platform to help customers optimize business and IT operations. ServiceNow Studio is the Integrated Development Environment for the ServiceNow platform that brings all required tooling into a single familiar environment, enabling rapid business application development, scoping and deployment, all from within the browser and without the need for a client application. Features such as a script editor with intelligent code assist, quick file search, application file explorer, and code search speed application development and increase developer productivity on the platform. ServiceNow Edge Encryption provides customers peace-of-mind making their sensitive data unreadable by encrypting and decrypting data sent to and from the ServiceNow data center through an on-premises proxy. Customers retain control of their encryption keys used to encrypt data sent to, and stored in, the ServiceNow data center. IT Operations Management Solutions Our ITOM solutions allow our customers to connect their physical infrastructure as well as their public and private clouds more directly with the ServiceNow platform. By applying these solutions, our customers gain greater visibility into their infrastructure and are able to more effectively manage the services they are delivering to the business. The result is increased service availability and reduced operational costs. The ITOM products are sold individually as well as in the following logical bundles: ServiceWatch Mapping includes our Service Mapping and Discovery solutions which accurately discover and map the relationships between IT infrastructure components (e.g. servers) and business services. This allows our customers to create a "service-aware" CMDB so that their IT organizations have greater visibility into their infrastructure and its relationship with the services used by the business. ServiceWatch Insight adds Event Management to the ServiceWatch Mapping bundle and is designed to provide rapid insight into the issues affecting service availability and performance. The solution accomplishes this by providing a single interface for collecting, filtering, and correlating event data captured by existing third-party monitoring tools. In addition to rapidly identifying root causes of service issues, ServiceWatch Insight allows customers to automate remedial actions by leveraging relevant IT service management processes, such as incident and change management. 4 ServiceWatch Suite adds Orchestration and Cloud Management to the ServiceNow ITOM products described above , offering the highest level of IT operational effectiveness. Through Orchestration, IT can automate key processes and tasks associated with common use cases, such as password reset, employee onboarding, client software distribution, provisioning and management of cloud resources, server configuration and provisioning, system resets and more. Cloud Management provides enterprises with the ability to create virtualized infrastructure offerings that can be published to the Service Catalog, requested by business end-users through self-service, and automatically provisioned using ServiceNow Orchestration. Requesters receive infrastructure on-demand while IT is able to standardize cloud resources and minimize the time spent managing cloud infrastructure, resulting in controlled costs and increased compliance. Comprehensive Services We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. These offerings include Professional Services, Education Services and Customer Support. Professional Services . Through an ecosystem of ServiceNow and partner resources, we provide professional services that advise and assist customers with implementation and drive value realization of the ServiceNow platform. Education Services. We offer extensive training services and certification programs for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules. Customer Support. Customers receive free support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing. Our Technology and Operations We designed our cloud computing service to support global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our services are focused on security, availability and scalability. Unlike many cloud vendors where customers run in multi-tenant environments on shared infrastructure servers and databases, we operate a unique single-instance architecture that provides each customer with their own dedicated application and database processes. This reduces the risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location and version upgrading. We are also able to process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base while optimizing transaction-processing time. We will continue to invest in enhancements to our cloud infrastructure, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web2.0 technologies like HTTPS and XML that give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively. The system is also highly portable and has been deployed across multiple environments including Microsoft Windows and Oracle databases. Our data centers operate in a mirrored configuration to provide high availability and are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. We offer services that have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2 and ISO 27001 third-party attestation. Our U.S. federal services have received a FISMA Moderate Authorization (ATO) attestation that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent. For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed on-premises, we define the hardware requirements that the customers must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the service and provide ongoing customer support similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. 5 Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third- party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, webinars and other customer forums where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. Customers We primarily market our services to large enterprise customers. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 3,000 enterprise customers, including more than 30% of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 400 customers that have purchased our Express product offering, which is our entry-level IT service management solution. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. In the first quarter of 2015, we changed our definition of customer count to better align to a global standard for business identification and tracking. Refer to the Total customers paragraph section in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details of the change. Backlog Backlog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in the deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had backlog of approximately $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion , respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. Total research and development expense was $217.4 million , $148.3 million and $78.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 6 Competition The markets in which we compete to manage service across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, security, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our proprietary rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to our proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our solutions. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. Companies in our industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We currently face, and we expect we will face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company (Hewlett-Packard) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. (BMC) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of seven BMC patents. On February 12, 2016, BMC filed a second lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of five BMC patents. BMC is seeking damages and an injunction. For additional information, see the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employees As of December 31, 2015 , we had 3,686 full-time employees worldwide, including 1,065 in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,416 in sales and marketing, 756 in research and development and 449 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe our relations with our employees to be good. 7 Available Information You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes report, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline, and we expect to continue to incur losses in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. From the year ended June 30, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2015 , our revenues grew from $19.3 million to $1.0 billion . Although we experienced revenue growth in prior periods, our revenue growth rate is declining and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we expect to continue to incur a loss in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unforeseen or unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and our ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business operations, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected. We have recently introduced products in new markets that are important to our growth prospects and for which we do not have an operating history. If we are unsuccessful in competing in these new markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have recently introduced products in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security incident management and use of our platform for service management outside of enterprise IT. Our successful entry into these and other new markets is important to our revenue growth prospects. We do not have a substantial operating history with these products, which limits our ability to forecast operating results, and the success of our efforts to address these markets depends on many factors, including: the degree of differentiation of our products and services from those offered by more established competitors in these markets; whether our product and services offer compelling benefits and value to customers; the time-frame and quality of our research and development efforts; the rigor and effectiveness of our quality testing and controls; and our ability to successfully market and sell into new markets with which our marketing and sales personnel are less experienced. We may not have the necessary resources, including employees with the required product management, engineering, marketing and sales expertise, to compete effectively in these markets. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, may not offer compelling customer benefits compared to competing products and services, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are not able to successfully develop, market and sell these and other newly introduced products and services to our existing customers and prospective new customers our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. 9 If we are unsuccessful in increasing our rate of growth in new geographic markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. Sales outside of North America represented approximately 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and will subject us to regulatory and economic risks that are different from those in the United States. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers and cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets, such as Brazil and various countries within Asia. When we make these investments it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments, and we may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. For example, our rate of acquisition of new Global 2000 customers, a key factor effecting our growth, has generally been greater in North America, Australia and in areas within Europe than it has been in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established. Accordingly, if we continue to further penetrate the Global 2000 at a higher rate in our established markets than in our emerging markets, over time an increasing percentage of the overall Global 2000 enterprises that are not yet our customers are in markets in which we have generally had a lower rate of customer acquisition or in which we are not yet competing. Additionally, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions, or the effective prices we realize in our reporting currency. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including in hiring qualified sales management personnel. If we are unsuccessful in making these investments, or if our required investments are greater than anticipated, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. We expect competition to cause the sales prices of our products to decline, which may harm our financial results. The sales prices for our products, subscriptions and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts, a change in our mix of products and subscriptions, anticipation of the introduction of new products or subscriptions, or promotional programs. Competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions. In addition, we expect that smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate the decline of prices in the IT service management market, which is our more mature offering from which we derive the substantial majority of our revenues and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. We may not be successful in developing and introducing new offerings on a timely basis, and any new product and subscription offerings, if introduced, may not enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain positive gross margins. If we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. For any quarterly or annual period there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows, or our forward-looking financial guidance, to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors include: our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers requirements; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; the number of new employees added; the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new services; general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customers purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business; seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services; 10 the length of the sales cycle for our services; changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition; significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services; new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors; changes in effective tax rates; changes in the average duration of our customer agreements and changes in billing cycle; changes in our renewal and upsell rates; the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses; and our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services. Lawsuits against us by third-parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends in part on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or services. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company (Hewlett-Packard) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,331,229 (the 229 patent), 7,027,411 (the 411 patent), 7,392,300 (the 300 patent), 7,610,512 (the 512 patent), 7,890,802 (the 802 patent), 7,925,981 (the 981 patent), 7,945,860 (the 860 patent) and 8,224,683 (the 683 patent). Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. We filed an answer to the complaint on March 28, 2014 denying the allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses. The parties are currently conducting discovery. Hewlett-Packard served infringement contentions on July 3, 2014 and November 18, 2014. We served invalidity contentions on January 9, 2015. On March 10, 2015, the court granted our motion for summary judgment, finding that the asserted claims of four of the eight asserted Hewlett-Packard patents are invalid for failing to claim patentable subject matter. On October 13, 2015, the court granted in part our renewed motion for a stay of litigation, staying all proceedings as to two of the four remaining asserted patents pending final decisions from the United States Patent and Trademark Office on our petitions for inter partes review. A claim construction hearing for the two asserted patents not subject to the courts stay is scheduled for April 29, 2016. The trial is currently scheduled to begin on May 22, 2017. We filed petitions for inter partes review with the United States Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) seeking to invalidate all eight Hewlett Packard patents. The PTAB granted our petitions for inter partes review of the 229, 411, 300 and 683 patents and denied our petitions of the remaining four patents. We also filed petitions for covered business method (CBM) review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the 981 and 860 patents. The PTAB denied our petitions for CBM review of the 981 and 860 patents. On or about November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard separated into two independently publicly traded companies: (i) Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HPE); and (ii) HP, Inc. As part of this separation, Hewlett-Packard assigned to HPE all right, title, and interest in the eight Hewlett-Packard patents in suit. On or about November 4, 2015, Hewlett-Packard filed a stipulated request to substitute HPE for Hewlett-Packard and the Court granted the stipulated request, substituting HPE for Hewlett-Packard as plaintiff in the litigation. 11 On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. (BMC) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,978,594 (the 594 patent), 6,816,898 (the 898 patent), 6,895,586 (the 586 patent), 7,062,683 (the 683 patent), 7,617,073 (the 073 patent), 8,646,093 (the 093 patent) and 8,674,992 (the 992 patent). BMC is seeking damages and an injunction. BMC served infringement contentions on January 6, 2015. We served invalidity contentions on March 3, 2015. We filed an answer to the complaint on June 1, 2015 denying the allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses. A claim construction hearing occurred on July 10, 2015, followed by the court's claim construction order on August 13, 2015. On January 25, 2016, the court issued an order dismissing all of BMCs claims related to the 594 and 093 patents without prejudice. On February 23, 2016, BMC voluntarily withdrew all claims related to the 073 patent. The trial is currently scheduled to begin on March 11, 2016. We filed petitions for inter partes review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the 594, 073, 898, 586, 093 and 992 patents. The PTAB granted our petitions for inter partes review of the 594, 073 and 992 patents and denied our petitions of the 586, 093 and 898 patents. We also filed petitions for CBM review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the 683 and 093 patents. The PTAB granted our petition for CBM review of the 093 patent and denied our petition for CBM review of the 683 patent. On February 12, 2016, BMC filed an additional lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,877,783 (the 783 patent), 7,966,398 (the 398 patent), 8,554,750 (the 750 patent), the 586 patent and the 898 patent. BMC is seeking damages and an injunction. The court has not yet set a schedule for this lawsuit. We intend to vigorously defend against HPEs and BMC's lawsuits. The final outcome with respect to the claims in the lawsuits, including our liability, if any, is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any claims by HPE or BMC would be resolved in our favor. For example, an adverse litigation ruling could result in a significant damages award against us, could result in injunctive relief, could result in a requirement that we make substantial royalty payments, and could require that we modify our products to the extent that we are found to infringe any valid claims asserted against us. Moreover, to the extent we are found to infringe on any valid claims asserted against us, our attempt to modify our products so that they are no longer infringing may be unsuccessful, could cause us to incur substantial expense, could be a distraction to management, and any such modified products may not be well received in the market. To the extent that we reach a negotiated settlement, the settlement could require that we pay substantial royalties and could require that we make modifications to our products that may not be well received in the market. At this stage in these litigation matters, any possible monetary loss or range of monetary loss cannot be estimated. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more of these legal matters were resolved against us in a reporting period, or settled on unfavorable terms, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merits of the claims at issue, we may incur substantial attorneys fees and other litigation expenses and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease offering our products and services; modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners and obtain costly licenses on their behalf and refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Moreover, the mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the course of its conduct and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the courts, press, analysts and litigants, could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers and could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates and cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors in our common stock and could cause a substantial decline in the price of our common stock.. Accordingly, any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. If we suffer a cyber-security event we may lose customers, lose future sales, experience business interruption and injury to our competitive position, and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results. Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers confidential, proprietary and sensitive information, including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information, proprietary information and credit card and other sensitive financial information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. A security breach or unauthorized access could result in the loss or exposure of this data, litigation, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, mitigation expenses and other liabilities. Additionally, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. 12 Computer malware, viruses and hacking and phishing attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur on our systems in the future. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As cyber-security threats develop and grow, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could suffer severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to deliver our services or operate our business may be impaired, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or orders, and we may incur significant liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches. Disruptions in our services could damage our customers businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any disruptions in our services could damage our customers' businesses, subject us to substantial liability, and harm our reputation and financial results. From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. We provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may also result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any such adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services. If we are unable to continuously enhance our products and services to deliver consumer product-like experiences, mobility, messaging and ease of use, they could become less competitive or obsolete and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that enterprises are increasingly focused on delivering a consumer-like technology experience to users within the enterprise, such as employees, and to individuals interacting with the enterprise, such as customers, partners and suppliers. Accordingly, our ability to attract new customers and to renew and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to continuously enhance our products and services and provide them in ways that are broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and improve our products and services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, including intuitive and attractive user interfaces, use and mobility features, messaging, social networking, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. If we are unable to consistently and timely meet these requirements, our products and services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. 13 The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively our business and operating results will be adversely affected. The markets in which we compete to manage services across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Furthermore, third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition may acquire our current or potential competitors. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security incident management and use of our platform for service management outside of enterprise IT, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , our sales and marketing organization increased from 1,011 to 1,416 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. Newly hired employees require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories, and our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we plan, or at all. Further, in our less established markets such as in Brazil and various countries within Asia, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing sales and marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to conduct such campaigns. Our business will be adversely affected if our sales and marketing expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. 14 Our business depends substantially on our existing customers purchasing additional subscriptions from us and renewing their subscriptions upon expiration of their subscription term. Any decline in customer additional purchases or renewals would harm our business and operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our existing customers expand their use of our services by adding new users and applying our products and services in new ways across the enterprise, and renew their subscriptions upon expiration of the subscription contract term. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may not renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of users. Although our renewal rates have historically been high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: our customers' satisfaction with our products and services and customer support; our prices and pricing policies and the prices of competing products and services; mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base; customer personnel changes; global economic conditions; or reductions in our customers spending levels. Our renewal rates may also decline based on our customers satisfaction with the implementation and other professional services of our partners, or the quality of implementations by our customers, all of which are generally outside of our control. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, fail to add more authorized users, fail to purchase additional professional services, decline to act as enthusiastic reference accounts for our customer prospects, or disparage our products and services, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our revenue growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and their continued performance. We depend on our channel partners, including our implementation partners, systems integrators, managed services providers and sales partners in order to grow our business. Our sales efforts have focused on large enterprise customers and there are a limited number of partners with the capacity to provide these customers an effective level of services. In order to continue our revenue growth, we need to recruit these partners and these partners need to devote substantial resources to our solutions. Accordingly, we need to build services, implement partner programs, and provide training and other resources to recruit, retain and enable these partners. Our agreements with partners are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing solutions. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our partners to favor their solutions or otherwise disrupt the relationships we have with our partners. In addition, global economic conditions could harm the businesses of our partners, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the additional resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with our channel partners, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. To compete in the markets for our newly introduced products in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security incident management and use of our platform for service management outside of enterprise IT, we may need to establish relationships with additional sales and implementation partners. Further, reliance on third parties exposes us to risk of poor performance and failed customer expectations. If our channel partners do not effectively provide services or support to the satisfaction of our end-customers, we may incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customers dissatisfaction could damage our reputation or ability to obtain additional revenues from that customer or prospective customers. 15 Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, and the changes in laws, regulations and standards related to the Internet may cause our business to suffer. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, and data sovereignty requirements concerning the location of data centers that store and process data. Industry organizations also regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in these areas. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the solicitation, collection, transfer, processing, storage or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers ability to use and share data, potentially restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers in connection with providing our services, and in some cases could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers ability to deploy our services globally. For example, the European Court of Justice in October 2015 issued a ruling immediately invalidating the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which facilitated the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States in compliance with applicable European data protection laws. While other adequate legal mechanisms for lawfully transferring European personal data to the United States remain, there is regulatory uncertainty surrounding how data transfers from the European Economic Area to the United States will be authorized in the future. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations, and changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our or our customers ability to collect, use or disclose information relating to individuals, which could decrease demand for our applications, require us to restrict our business operations, increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain and grow our customer base and increase our revenue. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet, commerce conducted via the Internet or validation that particular processes follow the latest standards. These changes could limit the viability of cloud computing services such as ours. If we are not able to adjust to changing laws, regulations and standards related to the Internet, our business may be adversely affected. Prospective customers that have not yet embraced cloud computing solutions may continue to be reluctant, slow, or unwilling to do so, any of which could harm our business and operating results. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise cloud computing solutions from which we have benefited in the past will continue in the future at the same overall growth rates. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate enterprise software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud computing solutions. Furthermore, some organizations have been reluctant or unwilling to use cloud computing solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data, the physical location of data centers in which their data is stored and processed, and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. In addition, if either we or other cloud computing providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for cloud computing solutions as a whole, including for our products and services, will be negatively impacted. For these and other reasons, there is a substantial risk that enterprises (including Global 2000 enterprises on which we are dependent for sales growth) that have not yet embraced cloud computing solutions will continue to be reluctant, slow, or be unwilling to do so, or willing to do so only to a limited extent, any of which could harm our business. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could harm our financial results. We conduct significant transactions, including revenue transactions and intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar can affect our consolidated revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. For example, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened relative to the Euro and other currencies in the past year. This has, and if this trend continues it will continue to, negatively impact our consolidated revenues. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. 16 Because we recognize revenues from our subscription service over the subscription term, downturns or upturns in new sales and renewals will not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the terms of their subscriptions. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenues relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter will likely have only a small, and perhaps no apparent, impact on our revenue results for that quarter. Such a decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenues. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could harm our financial results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of earnings and losses in differing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. Our tax provision could be impacted by changes in federal, state, or international tax laws or tax rulings. For example, the current U.S. administration and key members of Congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability to defer U.S. taxation on earnings outside of the United States until those earnings are repatriated to the United States, could affect the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. In addition, many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws. Certain proposals or newly enacted laws include provisions that could significantly increase our tax obligations in some countries. These changes in taxation may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. We may acquire or invest in companies and technologies, which may divert our managements attention, and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies in the past and may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their technology is not easily adapted to work with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may: issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; incur large charges or substantial liabilities; encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse technologies, software or business cultures; and 17 become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Acquisitions or other strategic investments may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale. Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces additional compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or most favored nation terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. If we undertake to meet special standards or requirements and do not meet them, we could be subject to increased liability from our customers or regulators. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our services to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our services to them and to grow or maintain our customer base. Our sales cycles are long, and if they lengthen further, or if our substantial upfront sales investments do not result in sufficient sales, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers. Because these customers are often making an enterprise-wide decision to deploy our services, sometimes on a global basis, we face long and variable sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront pre-sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our sales cycle is generally six to nine months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be much longer. Furthermore, large enterprises often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our services, including whether they need professional services performed by us or a third party for their service management needs, and a comparison of our services to products offered by our competitors. Some of our large enterprise customers initially deploy our services on a limited basis, with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our services widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial pre-sales investment. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront pre-sales investments do not result in sufficient subscription revenues to justify our investments, our operating results could be adversely affected. Sales to customers outside North America expose us to risks inherent in international sales. Because we sell our services throughout the world, we are subject to risks that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in North America. The business conduct and ethical standards of many other countries, including the emerging market countries that we are expanding into, are substantially different and much less rigorous than the United States. Risks inherent with international sales include without limitation: foreign currency fluctuations which may cause exchange and translation losses; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us; compliance with regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers data across international borders, many of which are stricter than the equivalent U.S. laws; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; different or lesser protection of our intellectual property; longer and potentially more complex sales cycles; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties; treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions; 18 different pricing and distribution environments; local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; and regional economic and political conditions. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our intellectual property protections may not provide us with a competitive advantage, and defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand under a combination of patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other jurisdictions. Though we seek patent protection for our technology, we may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our services are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We have, and in the future may, initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and may result in counter-claims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, or are required to incur substantial expenses in defending our intellectual property rights, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our use of open source software could harm our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. Our products incorporate software licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we may continue to incorporate open source software into other services in the future. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our services to adverse licensing conditions. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of the terms of open source licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is uncertain and enforcement of these terms may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our services and technologies. For example, depending on which open source license governs open source software included within our services or technologies, we may be subjected to conditions requiring us to offer our services to users at no cost; make available the source code for modifications and derivative works based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Moreover, if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations, be subject to significant damages or be enjoined from the distribution of our services. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us, among other things, to assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure