Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our interim consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q and with information contained in our other filings, including the audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in other parts of this report. Overview and Recent Developments We operate an industry-leading global marketplace for commercial digital content, including images, video and music. Commercial digital imagery consists of licensed photographs, illustrations and videos that companies use in their visual communications, such as websites, digital and print marketing materials, corporate communications, books, publications and video content while music consists of high-quality music tracks which are often used to complement the digital imagery. Demand for commercial digital imagery and music comes primarily from businesses, marketing agencies and media organizations. Our global online marketplace brings together users of commercial digital imagery and music with content creators from around the world. More than 1.2 million active, paying users contributed to revenue through March 31, 2015. We have historically benefitted from a high degree of revenue retention from both subscription-based and usage-based customers. For example, in 2014, 2013 and 2012, we experienced year-to-year revenue retention of 100%, 99%, and 100%, respectively. This means that customers that contributed to revenue in 2013 contributed, in the aggregate, 100% as much revenue in 2014 as they did in 2013. More than 70,000 approved contributors make their images available in our collection, which has grown to more than 50 million images and more than 2 million video clips as of March 31, 2015. This makes our collection one of the largest of its kind and, during the year ended December 31, 2014, we delivered more than 125 million paid downloads (including both commercial and editorial images) to our customers. We believe that we delivered the highest volume of commercial image downloads in this period of any single brand in our industry. On January 19, 2015, we acquired all of the shares of Rex Features (Holdings) Limited, or Rex Features, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the results of the acquired business has been included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. Rex Features was an independently owned photographic press agency in Europe which offers media companies and advertisers images and videos, including a live feed of edited celebrity, entertainment, sports and news images and videos, along with access to a multi-decade archive of iconic images. With Rex Features editorial expertise and position in the market place, we believe that this acquisition will strengthen our strategic position and bring a comprehensive offering to market across both editorial and commercial content. On January 22, 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of Arbour Interactive Inc., or PremiumBeat, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the results of the acquired business have been included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. PremiumBeat is a leading provider of exclusive, high-quality music and sound effects for use in videos, films, television, applications, games, and other creative projects. PremiumBeat works with composers to offer a high-quality library of exclusive music primarily to businesses, including advertising and media agencies, as well as Fortune 500 companies. We plan to continue operations under the PremiumBeat brand but also intend to combine it with the existing Shutterstock Music business in order to leverage PremiumBeats experience in the music market. In March 2015, we surpassed over 50 million images in our collection. In April 2015, we announced that Paul J. Hennessy, Chief Executive Officer of priceline.com, was appointed to our board of directors. Additionally, we announced that Aditi Javeri Gokhale and Laurie Harrison had joined the Shutterstock team as Chief Marketing Officer and Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, respectively. As an online marketplace, we generate revenue by licensing images, video clips and music tracks to end users and paying royalties to contributors for each download of their content. More than 35% of our revenue and the vast majority of downloads come from subscription-based users. These customers can download and use a large number of images in their creative process without concern for the incremental cost of each image download. 24 Table of Contents For users who need fewer images, or need video clips or music tracks, we offer simple, affordable, On Demand pricing, which is presented as a flat rate across the content types. Since the launch of our On Demand purchase options in 2008, revenue from these purchase options has increased as a percentage of our overall revenue and we expect that this trend will continue. Each time an image, video clip or music track is downloaded, we record a royalty expense for the amount due to the associated contributor. Royalties are calculated using either a fixed dollar amount or a fixed percentage of revenue. Royalties are typically paid to contributors on a monthly basis subject to applicable withholding taxes and certain payout minimums. Royalties represent the largest component of our operating expenses and tend to increase proportionally with revenue. Our cost of revenue is substantially similar as a percentage of revenue for our On Demand and subscription-based purchase options. While contributors earn a fixed amount per download for some of our plans, we have set the per-download amount paid to our contributors for each of our purchase options so that contributors earn more per download from plans where we collect higher revenue per download. In other words, we strive to deliver a similar percentage of revenue to contributors regardless of which purchase option a customer chooses. Cost of revenue for our On Demand purchase options has been slightly lower than that of our subscription-based options; however, this difference has historically represented less than 5% of revenue. As a result, we expect that shifts in the relative popularity of these two purchase options will not materially impact our cost of revenue. We manage customer acquisition costs based on the expected blended customer lifetime value across our purchase options so that we are able to manage our marketing expenses to achieve certain desired growth targets. As a result, we do not believe that shifts in the mix between On Demand or subscription-based purchase options will materially impact our operating margins. In addition, the repeat revenue characteristics of customers whose first purchase was a subscription-based purchase option are substantially similar to those whose first purchase was an On Demand purchase option. An important driver of our growth is customer acquisition, which we achieve primarily through online marketing efforts including paid search, organic search, online display advertising, email marketing, affiliate marketing, social media and strategic partnerships. Over the past several years, we increased our investment in marketing as a percentage of revenue. Since we believe the market for commercial digital imagery and music is at an early stage, we plan to continue to invest aggressively in customer acquisition to achieve revenue and market share growth. We believe that another important driver of growth is the quality of the user experience we provide on our websites, especially the efficiency with which our search interfaces and algorithms help customers find the images, videos and music that they need, the degree to which we make use of the large quantity of data we collect about images, videos and music and search patterns, and the degree to which our websites have been localized for international audiences. To this end, we have also invested aggressively in product development and we plan to continue to invest in this area. Finally, the quality and quantity of content that we make available in our collection is another key driver of our growth. The number of approved and licensable images in the Shutterstock collection exceeded 50 million images as of March 31, 2015, making it one of the largest libraries of its kind. 25 Table of Contents Key Operating Metrics In addition to key financial metrics, we regularly review a number of key operating metrics to evaluate our business, determine the allocation of resources and make decisions regarding business strategies. We believe that these metrics are useful for understanding the underlying trends in our business. The following table summarizes our key operating metrics, which are unaudited, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in millions, except revenue per download) Paid downloads (during the period) 33.4 29.7 Revenue per download (during the period) $ 2.87 $ 2.45 Images in collection (end of period) 51.6 35.4 Paid Downloads Measuring the number of paid downloads that our customers make in any given period is important because most of our revenue and all of our contributor royalties are driven by paid download activity. For customers that choose our On Demand purchase options, each incremental download results in incremental recognition of revenue. For customers that choose our subscription purchase options, we do not recognize revenue from each incremental download, but we believe that download activity is an important measure of the value that a customer is getting from a subscription and the likelihood that the customer will renew. We define paid downloads as the number of downloads that our customers make in a given period of our photographs, vectors, illustrations, video clips and music tracks, excluding re-downloads of images, video clips or music tracks that a customer has downloaded in the past (which do not generate incremental revenue or contributor royalty expense) and downloads of our free image of the week (which we make available as a means of acquiring new customers and attracting existing customers to return to our websites more frequently). As our business grows and if our product mix continues to shift to higher priced offerings, this download metric on its own may become less indicative of the overall revenue growth as compared to prior periods. Revenue per Download We define revenue per download as the amount of revenue recognized in a given period divided by the number of paid downloads in that period excluding the impact of revenue that is not derived or associated with the download of images, video clips or music tracks. This metric captures both changes in our pricing, if any, as well as the mix of purchase options that our customers choose, some of which generate more revenue per download than others. For example, when a customer pays $49.00 for five On Demand images, we earn more revenue per download ($9.80 per download) than when a customer purchases a one-month subscription for $249.00 and downloads 100 images during the month ($2.49 per download). Over the last three years, revenue from each of our purchase options has grown, however our fastest growing purchase options have been those that generate more revenue per download, most notably our On Demand purchase options. Revenue per download has increased steadily over the last three years, almost entirely due to the change in product mix. During this period, pricing has remained relatively constant. Images in Collection We define images in our collection as the total number of photographs, vectors and illustrations available to customers on shutterstock.com at any point in time. We record this metric as of the end of a period. Offering a large selection of images allows us to acquire and retain customers and, therefore, we believe that broadening our selection of high-quality images is an important driver of our revenue growth. 26 Table of Contents Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue The vast majority of our revenue is generated by licensing commercial digital imagery and music. The significant majority of our licensing revenue is generated via either subscription or On Demand purchase options. We generate subscription revenue through the sale of subscriptions varying in length from 30 days to one year. In substantially all cases, we receive the full amount of the subscription payment by credit card at the time of sale; however, subscription revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the subscription period. We generate On Demand revenue through the sale of fixed packages of downloads varying in quantity from one image to 750 images, one video clip to 25 video clips or single music tracks. We also generate On Demand revenue through our Bigstock offering via the sale of credits plans, which enable a customer to purchase a fixed number of credits which can then be utilized to download images anytime within one year. We typically receive the full amount of the purchase at the time of sale; however, revenue is recognized as images are downloaded or when the right to download images expires (typically 365 days after purchase). We provide a number of other purchase options which together represented approximately 20% and 14% of our revenue in 2014 and 2013, respectively. These purchase options include custom accounts for customers that need multi-seat access, invoicing, greater or unlimited indemnification, or a higher volume of images. We typically receive the full amount of the purchase at the time of sale; however, revenue is recognized as images, video clips or music tracks are downloaded or when the right to download expires (typically 365 days after purchase). Some of our larger custom accounts are invoiced at or after the time of sale and pay us on credit terms. Some custom accounts pay in quarterly installments over the course of an annual commitment. WebDAM licenses digital asset management software services through its cloud-based platform to marketing and creative enterprise organizations. The product offerings typically have a license contract of one year. Our deferred revenue consists of paid but unrecognized subscription revenue, On Demand revenue, and other revenue. Deferred revenue is recognized when images, video clips or music tracks are downloaded (On Demand), through the passage of time (subscriptions) or when credits or the right to download images, video clips or music tracks expire, all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists of royalties paid to contributors, credit card processing fees, content review costs, customer service expenses, the infrastructure costs related to maintaining our websites and associated employee compensation, including non-cash equity-based compensation, bonuses and benefits, amortization of content and technology intangible assets, allocated facility and other supporting overhead costs. We expect that our cost of revenue will increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future as our revenue grows. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses include third-party marketing, advertising, branding, public relations and sales expenses. Sales and marketing expenses also include associated employee compensation, including non-cash equity-based compensation, bonuses and benefits, and commissions as well as allocated facility and other supporting overhead costs. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in new customer acquisitions. Product Development. Product development expenses consist of employee compensation, including non-cash equity-based compensation, benefits and bonuses, and expenses related to contractors engaged in product management, design, development and testing of our websites and products. Product development costs also include allocated facility and other supporting overhead costs. We expense product development expenses as incurred, except for costs that are capitalized for internal use software development projects. We expect product development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in developing new products and enhancing the functionality of our existing products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses include employee compensation, including non-cash equity-based compensation, bonuses and benefits for executive, finance, business development, accounting, legal, human resources, internal information technology, business intelligence and other administrative personnel. In addition, general and administrative expenses include outside legal and accounting services, insurance, facilities costs and other supporting overhead costs. We expect to incur incremental general and administrative expenses to support our growth and to support operating as a public company. Other (Expense) Income, Net. Other (expense) income, net consists of non-operating costs such as foreign currency transaction gains and losses, changes in fair value of contingent consideration related to acquisitions and interest income and expense. We expect to incur incremental expense related to changes in fair value of contingent consideration related to our acquisitions as we reach each measurement date. Additionally, as currency rates fluctuate, we expect foreign currency gains and losses to fluctuate in a similar pattern. Income Taxes. Prior to October 5, 2012, we filed our income tax return as a pass through New York limited liability company for federal and state income tax purposes and were subject to taxation on allocable portions of our net income and other taxes based on various methodologies employed by taxing authorities in certain localities. As an LLC we recognized no federal and state income taxes, as the members of the LLC, and not the entity itself, were subject to income tax on their allocated share of our earnings. On October 5, 2012, we reorganized from a limited liability company to a Delaware corporation. Consequently, our corporate income tax rate increased significantly upon our becoming subject to federal, state and additional city income taxes. As we continue to expand our operations outside of the United States, we have been and may continue to become subject to taxation in additional non-U.S. jurisdictions and our effective tax rate could fluctuate accordingly. Our GAAP income taxes are computed using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted statutory income tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires our management to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period. We evaluate our significant estimates on an ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, estimates related to allowance for doubtful accounts, chargeback and sales refund reserve, goodwill, intangibles, contingent consideration, equity-based compensation, income tax provisions and certain non-income tax accruals. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with our revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, chargeback and sales refund reserve, equity-based compensation, accounting for non-income and income taxes, goodwill and intangible assets, contingent consideration, and advertising costs have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. A description of our critical accounting policies that involve significant management judgments appears in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 that we filed with the SEC on February 27, 2015, or the 2014 10-K, under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to our critical accounting policies and estimates included in the 2014 10-K. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated. The period-to-period comparisons of results are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue $ 97,522 $ 72,777 Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 39,526 29,108 Sales and marketing 25,105 19,276 Product development 10,684 7,777 General and administrative 13,972 7,546 Total operating expenses 89,287 63,707 Income from operations 8,235 9,070 Other (expense) income, net (2,562 ) 50 Income before income taxes 5,673 9,120 Provision for income taxes 2,431 4,202 Net income $ 3,242 $ 4,918 The following table presents the components of our results of operations for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenue 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 41 40 Sales and marketing 26 26 Product development 11 11 General and administrative 14 10 Total operating expenses 92 87 Income from operations 8 13 Other (expense) income, net (3 ) 0 Income before income taxes 5 13 Provision for income taxes 2 6 Net income 3 % 7 % 29 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 The following table presents our results of operations for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 97,522 $ 72,777 $ 24,745 34 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue 39,526 29,108 10,418 36 Sales and marketing 25,105 19,276 5,829 30 Product development 10,684 7,777 2,908 37 General and administrative 13,972 7,546 6,426 85 Total operating expenses 89,287 63,707 25,580 40 Income from operations 8,235 9,070 (835 ) (9 ) Other (expense) income, net (2,562 ) 50 (2,612 ) * Income before income taxes 5,673 9,120 (3,447 ) (38 ) Provision for income taxes 2,431 4,202 (1,771 ) (42 ) Net income $ 3,242 $ 4,918 $ (1,676 ) (34 )% * Not meaningful Revenue Revenue increased by $24.7 million, or 34%, to $97.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. This increase in revenue was primarily attributable to growth in the number of paid downloads and an increase in revenue per download. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we delivered 33.4 million and 29.7 million paid downloads, respectively, and our average revenue per download during these periods increased to $2.87 from $2.45. Paid downloads increased primarily due to the acquisition of new customers. Revenue per download increased primarily due to growth in our On Demand offerings and our enterprise business which captures a higher effective price per content download and, to a lesser extent, to revenue from our 2015 acquisitions. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, revenue from North America increased to 38% from 36% while revenue from Europe decreased to 34% from 37% and revenue from the rest of the world increased to 28% from 27%. Cost and Expenses Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue increased by $10.4 million, or 36%, to $39.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Royalties increased $7.3 million, or 36%, driven by an increase in the number of downloads from existing and new customers. We anticipate royalties growing in line with revenues for the remainder of 2015 and beyond, although royalties as a percentage of revenue may vary somewhat from period to period primarily due to customer usage and to a lesser extent due to the contributors achievement level of royalty target thresholds. Credit card charges increased by $0.2 million, or 8%, to $2.8 million as a result of increased credit card volume in the three months ended March 31, 2015. Employee-related expenses increased $1.6 million, or 70%, driven by an increase in headcount in customer service, content and website operations to support increased customer volume and a more robust hosting infrastructure, and to a lesser extent an increase in headcount as a result of the 2015 acquisitions. Other costs associated with website hosting, content consulting and allocated depreciation and amortization expense increased by $1.3 million, or 53%, to $3.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $5.8 million, or 30%, to $25.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Advertising expenses, the largest component of our sales and marketing expenses, increased by $1.8 million, or 17%, compared to the same period in 2014 as a result of increased spending on affiliate and search advertising and new channels. We anticipate that our global advertising spend will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future, as we further our international expansion. Employee-related expenses, including travel and entertainment, increased by $3.4 million, or 52%, driven by an increase in sales and marketing headcount to support our expansion into new markets and increased sales commissions as a result of growing revenue from our direct sales. Product Development. Product development expenses increased by $2.9 million, or 37%, to $10.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Employee-related expenses increased by $3.3 million, or 61%, driven by an increase in headcount in product, engineering and quality assurance to support our increasing number of product development initiatives for our websites, as well as ongoing efforts to improve our search capabilities. The increase in employee-related expenses was partially offset by a decrease in consulting-related expenses of $0.3 million, or 35%, primarily due to reduced costs associated with outsourced quality assurance services. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $6.4 million, or 85%, to $14.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Employee-related expenses, excluding non-cash equity based compensation, increased by $2.4 million, or 111%, driven by an increase in headcount in finance, legal, human resources, internal information technology and business intelligence personnel to support the growth in our business and the infrastructure necessary to operate as a public company. Non-cash equity-based compensation increased by $2.3 million to $3.3 million primarily due to equity awards granted as a result of our 2015 acquisitions and to equity awards to both new and existing employees. Professional fees and allocated depreciation and amortization expense increased by $1.2 million primarily due to increased outside and transactional services. Other (Expense) Income, Net. Other (expense) income, net increased by $2.6 million to $2.6 million from income of $0.1 million primarily due to foreign currency expenses and to a lesser extent, to changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the WebDAM and PremiumBeat acquisitions in the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. We expect foreign currency transaction gains and losses to fluctuate as we continue to expand our international operations. Income Taxes. Income tax expense decreased by $1.8 million, or 42% to $2.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was 42.8% and 46.1%, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we incurred net discrete tax expenses related primarily to a change in our state apportionment percentage. The net effect of all of our discrete tax expenses increased our effective tax rate by 3.3%. Excluding these discrete expenses, the effective rate would have been 39.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, we recognized a discrete tax expense related primarily to a change in state tax rates and our state apportionment percentage during the three months ended March 31, 2014 which increased the effective tax rate by 6.2%. Excluding this discrete item, the effective rate would have been 39.9% during the three months ended March 31, 2014. 31 Table of Contents Quarterly Trends Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the effects of some seasonal trends in customer behavior. For example, we expect usage to decrease during the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to the year-end holiday vacation season, and to increase in the first quarter of each calendar year as many customers return to work. While we believe these seasonal trends have affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results, our trajectory of rapid growth may have overshadowed these effects to date. Additionally, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from repeat customers who have purchased subscription plans, our revenues tend to be smoother and less volatile than if we had no subscription-based customers. In addition, expenditures on digital content by customers tend to be discretionary in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, the economic prospects of specific industries, budgeting constraints and buying patterns and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of $190.5 million, which consisted primarily of money market mutual funds and checking accounts. Additionally, we held short-term investments in the amount of $55.0 million all of which mature in 90 days or less. Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily through cash flow generated from operations. Historically, our principal uses of cash have been funding our operations, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, and, prior to October 5, 2012, distributions to members of Shutterstock Images LLC. We plan to finance our operations and capital expenses largely through cash flows generated from our operations. Since our results of operations are sensitive to many factors, included among them is the level of competition we face. Increased competition could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources by reducing both our revenues and our net income, as a result of reduced sales, reduced prices and increased promotional activities, among other factors, as well as by requiring us to spend more money on advertising and marketing in an effort to maintain or increase market share in the face of such competition. In addition, the advertising and marketing expenses incurred to maintain market share and support future revenues will be funded from current capital resources or from borrowings or equity financings. As a result, our ability to grow our business relying largely on funds from our operations is sensitive to competitive pressures and other risks relating to our liquidity or capital resources. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business, including acquisitions, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, based on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. 32 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Funds We believe, based on our current operating plan, that our cash and cash equivalents, and cash from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Consistent with previous periods, we expect that future capital expenditures will primarily relate to acquiring additional servers and network connectivity hardware and software, leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures related to office expansion and relocation, digital content and general corporate infrastructure. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $15 million for the remainder of 2015. See Note 8 to our Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding capital expenditures for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Cash Flows Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities is cash collections from our customers. The majority of our revenue is generated from credit card transactions and is typically settled within one to five business days. Our primary uses of cash for operating activities are for settlement of accounts payable to contributors, vendors and employee-related expenditures. In the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash provided by operating activities was $21.5 million including net income of $3.2 million and non-cash equity-based compensation of $7.5 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase in deferred revenue of $7.8 million, primarily related to an increase in purchases for both subscription and On Demand products. Accounts payable and other operating liabilities increased by $2.3 million as trade payables grew in volume and payroll costs increased due to headcount expansion. Contributor royalties payable increased by $1.5 million due to increased royalty expenses as the result of increased customer download activity. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $65.6 million consisting of cash paid for our 2015 acquisitions in the amount of approximately $62.4 million and capital expenditures to purchase software and equipment related to our data centers, as well as capitalization of leasehold improvements and website development costs in the amount of $2.2 million. We also paid $0.8 million to acquire the non-exclusive licensing rights to distribute certain digital content in perpetuity. Additionally, we sold short-term investments, net of purchases, in the amount of $0.1 million. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities in three months ended March 31, 2015 was $2.9 million consisting primarily of proceeds in the amount of $3.0 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and purchase of common stock pursuant to our 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 33 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments We lease office facilities under operating lease agreements that expire on various dates between 2015 and 2024. We also have several co-location agreements with third-party hosting facilities that expire between 2015 and 2017. We do not have any material capital lease obligations, and our property, equipment and software have been purchased primarily with cash. We anticipate expanding our office and co-location facilities as our revenue and customer base continue to grow and diversify. On March 21, 2013, we entered into an operating lease agreement to lease our headquarters in New York City. The aggregate future minimum lease payments are approximately $36.9 million. We also entered into a letter of credit in the amount of $1.8 million as a security deposit for the leased facility. The letter of credit is collateralized by $1.8 million of cash as of March 31, 2015, and as such, is reported as restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2015. As of March 31, 2015, our unconditional purchase obligations for the remainder of 2015 and for the years ending December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017 were approximately $4.2 million, $3.5 million, $1.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 34 Table of Contents