Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These include statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features, products or services, or management strategies) based on our management's current beliefs and assumptions. You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as "may," "will," "would," "should," "could," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend," "plan" and other similar expressions. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these words. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not intend, and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms "Shutterstock," "the Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Shutterstock, Inc. and its subsidiaries including, for the period prior to October 5, 2012, Shutterstock Images LLC. "Shutterstock", "Offset", "Bigstock", "Rex Features", "Premium Beat" and "WebDAM" are registered trademarks or logos appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are the property of Shutterstock, Inc. or one of our subsidiaries. All other trademarks, service marks and trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Item 1. Business. Overview We are a leading global provider of high quality creative content including: (a) digital imagery, which consists of licensed photographs, vectors, illustrations and video clips that customers use in their visual communications, such as websites, digital and print marketing materials, corporate communications, books, publications and video content; and (b) commercial music, which consists of high-quality music tracks and sound effects, and is often used to complement digital imagery. We also offer digital asset management services through WebDAM, our cloud-based digital asset management platform. This service provides tools for customers to better manage creative content and brand management assets. Our global marketplace brings together users and contributors of creative content from around the world by providing a freely searchable collection of content that our customers can pay to license and incorporate into their work. More than 1.4 million active, paying customers contributed to our revenue in 2015 . As of December 31, 2015 , more than 95,000 contributors made their creative content available in our collection, which has grown to more than 70 million commercially licensable images and more than 3.5 million video clips in addition to our one-of-a-kind collection of curated high-quality music and our ever-growing catalog of current and archived editorial photographs and videos. This makes our collection of digital content one of the largest of its kind. During 2015 , we delivered more than 140 million paid downloads to our customers. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating MetricsPaid Downloads" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating MetricsImages in our Collection" for more information as to how we define and calculate paid downloads and images in our collection. We compensate contributors for their content that is downloaded by our customers. This marketplace model allows us to offer users a cost-effective and easy-to-use alternative to the time-consuming and expensive traditional methods of obtaining and distributing creative content, while our rigorous vetting process and willingness to provide indemnification protection enables us to provide customers with confidence that our collection has been appropriately licensed for commercial or editorial use. We enable businesses of all sizes throughout the world, including media agencies and creative service providers, to affordably access high-quality creative content to meet their increasing needs. 3 Table of Contents We enable customers to license creative content in a way that is affordable, simple and easy in order to encourage a high volume of purchases and downloads. Our customers' average cost per download in 2015 was $2.84 . See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating MetricsRevenue per Download" for more information as to how we define and calculate average cost, or revenue, per download. The majority of customer downloads come from subscription-based users, who contribute approximately 33% of our revenue. We also offer simple and easy-to-use On Demand purchase options for users who prefer the flexibility of purchasing content when and as needed. Our simple and affordable licensing models drive a high volume of download activity that in turn enables us to continuously improve the quality and accuracy of our proprietary search algorithms, including keyword and similar image identification, and encourages the creation of new content to meet our customers' needs. Our Products We offer a variety of content types, including photographs, illustrations, vector art, video clips and music tracks. Users can search our collection and preview our content at no cost before licensing and downloading the content they need. All of our content is provided under a royalty-free non-exclusive license and each piece of content available for download has been vetted by our team of reviewers to ensure that it meets our standards of quality and can be appropriately licensed for commercial or editorial use. Our content offerings are marketed as follows: Shutterstock - Shutterstock is our flagship brand and the majority of our revenue is generated through our shutterstock.com website. Since our founding in 2003, we have expanded our Shutterstock collection beyond photographs to include illustrations and videos, and in 2015 the collection grew to over 70 million images and over 3.5 million video clips, further establishing Shutterstock as a top source of high quality digital imagery for multimedia producers world-wide. Bigstock - Bigstock maintains an extensive library of unique photos, illustrations, vectors and videos specifically curated to meet the needs of independent creators and others seeking to incorporate cost-effective digital imagery into their projects. Offset - For high-impact use cases that require extraordinary imagery, our Offset brand provides authentic and exceptional imagery under a straightforward licensing process. Offset features work from top assignment photographers and illustrators from around the world, in addition to established and respected collections including National Geographic and The Licensing Project. Every image in the collection is hand-selected, chosen for its artistic distinction and narrative quality, and is curated into specific categories such as lifestyle, food, travel and fashion. Shutterstock Music - Shutterstock music provides thousands of high-quality audio tracks and sound effects at affordable prices via its easy-to-use e-commerce platform, giving businesses, marketers, producers and filmmakers the audio content they need to bring their ideas to life. In January 2015, we acquired PremiumBeat, a leading provider of exclusive, high-quality music to enhance the depth of our existing music library and the quality of our overall product in the marketplace. Shutterstock Editorial - Shutterstock editorial provides editorial imagery, such as celebrity, entertainment, sports and news images to a broad range of customers from traditional media outlets to bloggers by providing a real-time feed of editorial content and an extensive multi-decade archive of iconic photos. In January 2015, Shutterstock acquired Rex Features, the largest independently-owned photographic press agency in Europe, which has provided a strong base for growing our editorial offering. In June 2015, we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with Penske Media Corporation, or PMC, which provides us with insider access to various events such as the Golden Globe Awards and Academy Awards, exclusive worldwide rights to license PMC's extensive archive that includes Variety and Women's Wear Daily publications, and credibility in the market for editorial content that will allow us to further grow our product offerings. In addition to our extensive line of content products, our other products include: WebDAM - WebDAM provides tools to marketing and creative teams through its digital asset management platform. WebDAM's products help organizations manage, search, distribute and collaborate on creative files in order to grow their brands and reach new audiences, and can be particularly attractive to large enterprises, which make up a growing portion of WebDAM's client base. Our addition of WebDAM has enhanced our strategic position with enterprise customers and broadened our product portfolio. 4 Table of Contents Competition We compete to be an integral component of the creative process for our customers based on a number of factors including the quality, relevance and breadth of content, the ease and speed of search and fulfillment, pricing and licensing models and practices, and brand recognition and reputation. We also compete for contributors on the basis of a number of similar factors including ease and speed of the upload and content review process, contributor commission models and practices, brand recognition and reputation, and the volume of customers who utilize the submitted content in their work. We also leverage, to the greatest extent possible, the global nature of our user interfaces and marketing efforts, including local languages, currencies and payment methods and our effective use of current and emerging technology and marketing channels to attract and retain customers and contributors. We believe that we benefit from significant network effects: as we have grown, our broadening audience of paying users has attracted more content from contributors, and the ever-increasing selection of high-quality content has in turn helped to attract more customers to our sites. The success of this network effect is facilitated by the trust that users place in Shutterstock to maintain the quality and integrity of our branded marketplace, and our commitment to seamless integration into users' creative workflows on all sides. Some of our current and potential significant competitors include: other online marketplaces for imagery and workflow tools such as iStockphoto, Adobe's AdobeStock offering which was launched after its acquisition of Fotolia, and Dreamstime; traditional stock content providers such as Getty Images and Corbis Corporation (whose content licensing business was recently acquired by an affiliate of Visual China Group); specialized visual content companies that are established in local, content or product-specific market segments; providers of commercially licensable music such as Universal Music Publishing Group, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, Warner Music Group, and EMI Music Publishing; websites focused on image search and discovery such as Google Images; websites for image hosting, art and related products such as Flickr; other providers of cloud-based digital asset management tools; social networking and social media services; and commissioned photographers and photography agencies. In addition, we compete with the alternative of creating one's own content or choosing not to consume licensed content due to price considerations or because the user is not aware of how to do so. Purchase Options More than 1.4 million customers from more than 150 countries contributed to our revenue in 2015 , with our top 25 customers in the aggregate accounting for less than 2% of our revenue. The majority of our customers pay us upfront and then use their downloads in a predictable pattern over time, which results in favorable timing of cash flows. We strive to offer simple, transparent purchase options that remove complexity from a customer's workflow. We currently offer the following options: Subscription: Our signature purchase options are our subscription plans, which allow customers to download content under our Standard License, regardless of image size, and experiment with multiple images at no extra cost, which removes friction from their creative process. Subscription plans are offered in varying lengths from one month to one year and in varying download quantities with daily and monthly limits. For the majority of subscription sales, we receive the full amount of the purchase price at the time of sale. Subscription purchase options across all of our product offerings represented approximately 33% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 . On Demand: Customers can purchase content through fixed price packages varying in download quantities from one to 60 downloads. This offers customers the simplicity of being able to license content under various licensing options depending upon the customer's specific needs. Upon the purchase of On Demand content, the customer has up to one year to download content before it expires. While the majority of On Demand content revenue comes from our Standard License packages, other forms of On Demand purchases for content include Enhanced Licenses (for customers who need broader licensing rights or higher indemnification than are offered under our Standard License), 5 Table of Contents and content licensed through Bigstock and Offset. Our On Demand purchase options represented approximately 38% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Other Purchase Options: We provide a number of other purchase options which together represented approximately 29% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 . These purchase options include custom and enterprise accounts for customers that need multi-seat access, invoicing, unlimited indemnification or a higher volume of content, content purchased through third-party application interfaces and content licensed for editorial use only as well as WebDAM's digital asset management offerings, which are made available to enterprise customers via annual software-as-a-service subscription plans. We have achieved significant growth since our marketplace was launched in 2003. In 2015 and 2014 , we generated revenue of $425.1 million and $328.0 million , respectively, representing year-over-year revenue growth of approximately 30% . In 2015 and 2014 , our net income was $19.6 million and $22.1 million , respectively. In evaluating our business, we also use certain financial measures which are not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP, which we collectively refer to as Non-GAAP Measures. In 2015 and 2014 , we generated Adjusted EBITDA of $84.7 million and $71.1 million , respectively, Non-GAAP Net Income of $44.2 million and $38.6 million , respectively, and Free Cash Flow of $68.3 million and $64.2 million , respectively. For further detail around the calculation and limitations of these measures, please see "Selected Financial DataNon-GAAP Financial Measures." Our Customers We serve a wide variety of customers across numerous industries, organizational sizes and geographies. As of December 31, 2015 , our customer database contained more than 1.4 million users in more than 150 countries that contributed to our revenue in 2015 , with approximately 39% , 34% and 27% of revenue coming from customers in North America, Europe and the rest of the world, respectively. Due to our large number of customers, we do not have any material customer concentration, and our top 25 customers in the aggregate accounted for less than 2% of our revenue in 2015 . Our customers are concentrated in one of three categories, all of which require high-quality digital content to achieve their creative goals: Businesses. Business customers require content for a wide range of internal- and external-use communications such as websites, print and digital advertisements, annual reports, brochures, employee communications, newsletters, email marketing campaigns and presentations. Our business users range from sole proprietors to Fortune 500 companies. Marketing Agencies. Marketing agencies require content to incorporate in the work they produce for their clients' business communications. Whether providing graphic design, web design, interactive design, advertising, public relations, communications or marketing services, our marketing users range from independent freelancers to the largest global agencies. Media Organizations. Media professionals require content to incorporate into their work, which includes digital publications, newspapers, books, magazines, television and film, as well as to market their products effectively. Our media users range from independent bloggers to multi-national publishing and broadcast organizations. Content Contributors and Content Review Process The content we provide to our users is created by a community of contributors from around the world and is vetted by our specialized team of content reviewers to ensure that it is of the highest quality. Whether photographers, videographers, illustrators, designers or musicians, our community of more than 95,000 approved contributors as of December 31, 2015 ranges from part-time enthusiasts to full-time professionals, and all of them must meet our high standards that our customers have come to expect from Shutterstock. To become a contributor, an individual must submit an application that includes a sampling of images or video clips. Of more than 1.2 million contributor applications that had been submitted as of December 31, 2015 , fewer than 10% have been approved. Once accepted by our review team, contributors can upload as many images or videos as they like. However, every submitted image or video is reviewed to ensure that images and videos in our collection meet our aesthetic and technical quality standards. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 121 million images had been submitted to our review team by approved contributors and, of those, approximately 60% , were approved and made available in our marketplace. Each image or video that is rejected by our review team is tagged with at least one rejection reason that is communicated to the submitting contributor to help them to improve and to give insight into our review standards. Such rejection reasons include, among other things, lack of focus, composition, poor lighting, and potential concerns regarding intellectual property rights. We combine proprietary technology and a highly trained content review staff to deliver sophisticated yet efficient image reviewtypically, all content submitted is processed within 36 hours of upload. 6 Table of Contents Contributors are required to associate keywords with each piece of content they submit in order to make their content more easily discovered using our search algorithms. Keywords usually contain both descriptive terms that literally identify the content of an image (e.g., "padlock") and conceptual terms that describe what an image might convey (e.g., "security"). We currently have over 2.5 billion contributor-generated keywords in our proprietary database, averaging 37 keywords per image. Content accepted into our collection is added to our websites where it is available for search, selection, license and download. Contributors are typically paid monthly based on how many times their images or video clips have been licensed in the previous month. Contributors may choose to remove their images or video clips from our collection at any time. Due to our large number of contributors, we do not have a material content supply concentration; the content contributed by our five highest-earning contributors was together responsible for less than 3% of downloads in 2015 . Editorial and music content is sourced through direct submission to our content teams and through a number of strategic partnerships. Our acquisitions of PremiumBeat and Rex Features and our partnership with PMC during 2015 further enhance our collection and content acquisition capabilities in these areas. We provide different earnings structures to contributors based on content type and customers' licensing needs: Images. Contributors of photographs, illustrations and vector art to our websites are typically paid based on the number of times that their images have been downloaded. The majority of image downloads are licensed under our Standard License, whereby the contributor earns a royalty typically ranging from $0.25 to over $5.00 per download. The exact amount earned is determined by our published earnings schedule which considers the contributor's lifetime earnings which determine the contributor's earnings tier and the purchase option under which the content was licensed. Contributors generally earn more per download when images are licensed under our Enhanced License or are licensed for editorial use only and can typically earn up to 50% of the sales price for each image. Video Footage and Music. Contributors of video footage and music tracks are also generally paid based on the number of times that their video clips or music tracks have been licensed and downloaded. When a video clip or music track is downloaded the contributor is typically paid between 30% and 50% of the sales price per download. In certain limited cases, video and music contributors are paid a one-time up-front perpetual license fee instead of being paid per download. In certain cases, we will enter into arrangements with contributors whereby we guarantee a minimum royalty to a contributor, usually paid up-front, in exchange for exclusive rights to distribute content when we believe such exclusivity provides us with a distinct competitive advantage. Technology and Infrastructure Our technology is critical to our business and all of our products and services are made possible by the proprietary technology and robust infrastructure that we have developed. We believe that delivering intuitive, fast and effective user experiences, supported by robust and scalable technology platforms, is critical to our success. We employ technology to support both our public facing websites and our back-office systems. We use a combination of proprietary technologies and commercially available licensed technologies, including open source software. We focus our internal development efforts on creating and enhancing the specialized proprietary software that is unique to our business and we leverage commercially available and open source technologies for our more generalized needs. Our customer-facing software enables users to search millions of digital images, illustrations, vectors, video clips and music tracks and then select, organize, pay for, license and download the content they would like to use. Our proprietary search algorithms evolve automatically based on behavioral data, which means that each search and download that a user performs on our websites gives our search engine more information with which to improve. Having delivered over 625 million paid downloads as of December 31, 2015 , the data that we have collected and the search technology that it powers are an important and proprietary asset. In December 2015, we announced the launch of Shutterstock Editor with the goal of further enhancing the user experience by providing users the ability to customize certain content without leaving their browser, improving the customer's workflow and eliminating time-consuming steps in the creative process. We have also invested in globalizing our e-commerce platform, allowing customers to search and make purchases in twenty languages and twelve currencies. Another of our customer-facing software platforms is WebDAM, which enables us to better service a broader range of customers by offering a more seamless experience to enterprise users as they license, download, store and share digital assets through WebDAM's cloud-based software platform. Our contributor-facing software enables creative professionals around the world to apply to become a contributor, upload and tag content, receive feedback on their submissions from our review team, see reports on earnings and payouts, and participate in online discussion forums with other contributors. We have also developed proprietary tools to enable our 7 Table of Contents contributors to improve their success on our websites, including our Keyword Trends Tool that allows contributors to see what terms customers are searching for and how those search terms are trending over time. This tool allows contributors to anticipate demand and generate content that customers may want to license, and is another example of how we combine software and large-scale proprietary datasets to deliver value to our users. Our internal software enables the technological and business processes necessary to deliver a high quality experience for customers and contributors. This includes a content review system that allows our review team to efficiently and accurately review the content that is made available on our websites. In addition, we use internally developed software and third party applications that enable customer and contributor support, intellectual property rights and license tracking, centralized invoicing and sales order processing, customer database management, language translation and global contributor payouts, in addition to supporting the compliance, finance and accounting functions. Our systems infrastructure is hosted by industry-leading third-party hosting providers that offer 24-hour monitoring, high-speed network access, auxiliary power generators and back-up systems. We maintain multiple production data centers to provide rapid content delivery to our customers and also to support business continuity in the event of an emergency. We also use content delivery network solutions to ensure fast access to our content around the world. Network, website, service and hardware-level monitoring, coupled with remote-content monitoring, allow our systems to maintain a high level of uptime and availability with high-performance delivery. Our development teams employ Agile Development methodologies to increase the speed and effectiveness of our technology efforts. We focus on iterative and incremental development processes through which cross-functional teams release software code nearly every day. As we continue to grow the business, our technological needs continue to expand and, as such, a continuous level of investment is required for the enhancement of existing products and services and for the development of new products and services. We view our investments in technology as core to our long-term success and we intend to continue to investigate, develop and make increased capital investments in technology and operational systems that support both our current business and new areas of potential business expansion. Marketing We reach new customers through a diverse set of marketing channels including paid search, online display advertising, print advertising, tradeshows, email marketing, direct mail, affiliate marketing, public relations, social media and partnerships. Marketing activities aim to raise awareness of our brands and attract paying customers to our websites by promoting the key value propositions of our offerings: diverse and high-quality content, intuitive and efficient interfaces and market-leading value. The marketing efforts used in generating more revenue for us also help us generate more earnings for our contributors. Increasing revenue helps attract more content, which in turn helps us convert and retain even more paying customers. Furthermore, the high degree of satisfaction that customers have with our product drives word-of-mouth recommendations, which helps our marketing efforts attract an even broader audience than we reach directly. In these ways, we believe our marketing efforts have a self-reinforcing effect, which powers the growth and success of our marketplace. Sales and Customer Support The significant majority of our revenue is generated via self-serve e-commerce. We encourage our customers to take advantage of the comprehensive search capabilities of our websites, our credit card-based payment options and the immediate digital delivery of licensed content. We believe the ability to search for, select, license and download content over the internet offers our users convenience and speed, and enables us to achieve greater economies of scale. Direct communication with our customers, however, remains a significant component of our customer support and sales strategy. Our customer support and sales team is available to assist users via email, chat and phone in twelve languages. In addition to handling inbound customer support and sales inquiries, we also proactively contact potential high-volume enterprise customers and offer them custom accounts to meet their needs; such outbound sales activities contributed approximately 29% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 8 Table of Contents Product Rights and Intellectual Property Product Rights and Indemnification. All of the content that we make available to customers on our websites is offered under a perpetual, royalty-free license. This means that once a customer has licensed content from us, that customer can use the associated content in accordance with the license terms in perpetuity without having to pay any ongoing royalties to us. Typically, the content license is non-exclusive, meaning that multiple customers can license the same image, video clip or music track under the applicable Shutterstock license agreement. Furthermore, we do not typically require that contributors of content to our sites provide their content to us on an exclusive basis, with the exception of certain editorial, music and other content to which we have exclusive distribution rights. Under our various license agreements, we expressly represent and warrant that unaltered content downloaded and used in compliance with our license agreements and applicable law will not infringe any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property right, violate any third party's rights of privacy or publicity, violate any U.S. law, be defamatory or libelous, or be pornographic or obscene. Provided that a customer has not breached the license agreement or any other agreement with us, we will defend, indemnify, and hold a customer harmless from direct damages attributable to breaches of the express representations and warranties provided in our licenses agreements. From time to time, we agree to customize the license agreements with non-standard indemnification terms. Regardless of customization, indemnification only applies to claims for damages attributable to our breach of the express representations and warranties provided in our license agreement and is generally conditioned on our timely receipt of an indemnification claim and our right to assume the defense of such claim. Our license agreements cap our indemnification obligations at amounts ranging from $10,000 to $250,000, with certain exceptions for which our indemnification obligations are uncapped. Since January 1, 2013, we have not incurred any material financial liability as a result of these indemnification obligations and aggregate amounts paid since that date to settle customer indemnification claims have not been material to our business. We maintain commercially reasonable insurance intended to protect against the costs of intellectual property litigation and our indemnification obligations under our license agreements. Intellectual Property. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patents, trademarks and domain name registrations, copyrights and trade secrets. We own a portfolio of trademarks, including "Shutterstock", "Offset", "Bigstock", "Rex Features", "Premium Beat" and "WebDAM" and associated logos. We will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent that we create any additional material and registrable trademarks or logos. We are the registered owner of a variety of the shutterstock.com, bigstock.com, offset.com, webdam.com, premiumbeat.com, and rexfeatures.com internet domain names and various other related domain names. We have successfully recovered infringing domain names in the past and will continue to enforce our rights in the future. We also own copyrights, including certain content in our websites, publications and designs, as well as patents, including with respect to our display systems and search capabilities. These intellectual property rights are important to our business and marketing efforts. The duration of the protection afforded to our intellectual property depends on the type of property in question, the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction and the terms of our license agreements with others. With respect to our trademarks, trade names and patents, laws and rights are generally territorial in scope and limited to those countries where a mark has been registered or protected. While trademark registrations may generally be maintained in effect for as long as the mark is in use in the respective jurisdictions, there may be occasions where a mark or title is not registrable or protectable or cannot be used in a particular country. In addition, a trademark registration may be canceled or invalidated if challenged by others based on certain use requirements or other limited grounds. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state, and common law rights, including registration, in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as contractual restrictions. We enforce and protect our intellectual property rights through litigation from time to time, and by controlling access to our intellectual property and proprietary technology, in part, by entering into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, and vendors. In this way, we have historically chosen to protect our software and other technological intellectual property as trade secrets. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in our websites' terms of use and license agreements Government Regulation The legal environment of the internet and online content is evolving rapidly in the United States and worldwide. The development of new laws and regulations, the manner in which existing laws and regulations will be applied to the internet and online content in general, and how the foregoing will relate to our business in particular, is unclear in many cases. For example, there is uncertainty regarding how laws and regulations will apply in the online context and to different business models, including with respect to such topics as privacy, data management and cyber-security, defamation, e-commerce, pricing, credit 9 Table of Contents card fraud, advertising, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, subscription-based billing, content regulation, quality of products and services, internet neutrality, outsourcing, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Numerous laws have been adopted at the national and state level in the United States that could have an impact on online commerce generally and on our business. These laws include, for example, the following: The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states regulate the format, functionality and distribution of commercial solicitation e-mails, create criminal penalties for unmarked sexually-oriented material, and control other online marketing practices. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act and the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to End Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 regulate the collection or use of information, and restrict the distribution of certain materials, as related to certain protected age groups. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 provides for reporting and other obligations by online service providers in the area of child pornography. Federal and state regulatory agencies are accelerating the consideration, adoption and enforcement of rules and guidelines concerning data security measures and reporting of cyberattacks and other security breaches of personal data to affected individuals, to regulatory agencies, to law enforcement officials and to other third parties. The Federal Trade Commission Act and numerous state "mini-FTC" acts bar "deceptive" and "unfair" trade practices, including in the contexts of online advertising and representations made in privacy policies and other online representations. Federal and state regulatory agencies are also accelerating the consideration, adoption and enforcement of rules, regulations and guidelines that govern online service providers' data collection, processing, retention, transfer and use policies and practices, including with respect to the disclosure of consumer data to third parties such as direct marketers. Many of these laws and regulations have international analogues that apply to our business and are becoming more strict over time. Given the broad spectrum of legal and regulatory uncertainties, we expect new laws and regulations to be adopted over time that are likely to be applicable to the internet and to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to Shutterstock could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, to respond to regulatory inquiries or investigations, and to defend individual or class litigation. These events could dampen growth in the use of the internet in general, and cause Shutterstock to divert significant resources and funds to addressing these issues, and possibly require us to change our business practices. We post privacy policies on our websites concerning our data collection, use and sharing practices. We have also implemented, and continuously improve upon, various data security measures. Allegations that our policy disclosures are inadequate or that we have failed to comply with our posted privacy policies, that our security measures are insufficient, or that we otherwise violated Federal Trade Commission or state requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations, could result in proceedings by governmental or regulatory bodies or private parties that could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there is a risk that privacy, data security and marketing laws may be interpreted and applied differently in certain jurisdictions, in ways that are not consistent with our current practices, which could also potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative and regulatory proposals before the United States Congress, various state legislative bodies, and government agencies regarding privacy, security, marketing and other consumer issues that may affect our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such rules and regulations may be adopted, or how existing or new rules or regulations could be interpreted by courts or agencies, however, it is possible that the foregoing could harm our business by, among other things, decreasing user registrations and revenue, increasing the cost of compliance, impeding the development of new products or services, and limiting potential sources of revenue such as online advertising. These adverse effects on our businesses could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required display of specific disclaimers, requirements to obtain consent from users for certain activities, costly security measures or other requirements before users can utilize our services. In addition, we may be subject to claims of liability or responsibility for the actions of third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely in relation to various services, including but not limited to vendors, payment processors and business partners. These third parties may be vulnerable to violations of privacy laws, threats such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other unauthorized attempts to access, modify or delete our or our customers' information or business assets that they service or maintain on our behalf. Further, Shutterstock itself may be the target of cyberattacks or other unlawful or unauthorized efforts to access, use, acquire or disclose information that we ourselves maintain, and such information may also be subject to accidental loss, destruction or alteration. 10 Table of Contents In addition, there is a significant increase in non-U.S. jurisdictions considering, adopting and enforcing existing and new laws and regulations regarding a broad spectrum of data privacy, data management, data transfer/localization, marketing, anti-spam, data security and other matters related to online businesses and e-commerce. Non-U.S. laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States and often have extraterritorial application. Due to the global nature of the internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and countries might attempt to regulate our online activities such as digital transmissions, regulate our data privacy and security measures, or prosecute us for alleged violations of their laws. We might violate such laws; such laws or their interpretation or application may be modified; and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to legal liability for our online services. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Claims may also be threatened against us for aiding and abetting, defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other reasons based on the nature and content of information that we collect or use, or to or from which we provide links or that may be posted online. In addition, the fiscal authorities of virtually every jurisdiction have expressed significant interest regarding the potential implications of e-commerce business from a taxation perspective. Among these is the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, an international economic organization of 34 countries, including the U.S. and several other major economic powers. There have been a number of studies, and even in some cases legislative initiatives, to identify the streams of e-commerce activities that potentially lead to income and to subject such streams to taxation even though such activities would not be subject to a particular jurisdiction's taxation authority under the traditional concepts of nexus requirement and territorial authority to tax. Even though the OECD, through its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, initiative, has attempted to develop a coordinated viewpoint among its members to address e-commerce, efforts by various taxing authorities to tax these newly identified streams could be disjointed and uncoordinated. As a result, these initiatives could lead to excess or even double taxation of the same streams of income, and e-commerce businesses may not have efficient tools available to reduce or eliminate such excess taxation. As a result, we and other companies engaged in multi-jurisdictional e-commerce activities may face higher tax costs, both with respect to income tax and transactional taxes, as this area develops. Employees As of December 31, 2015 , our global workforce included 627 full-time employees. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining arrangements. In several foreign jurisdictions, including Germany, Canada and France, our employees may be subject to national collective bargaining agreements that set minimum salaries, benefits, working conditions and/or termination requirements. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. Segments and Geographic Areas Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of the risks attendant to foreign operations, see the information in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors" under the caption "Continuing expansion into international markets is important for our growth, and as we continue to expand internationally, we face additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks, any of which could increase our costs or otherwise limit our growth." For a discussion of revenue, net income and total assets, see Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors. Our quarterly and annual results may reflect the effects of intra-period trends in customer behavior. For example, we expect certain customers' usage to decrease during the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to the year-end holiday season, and to increase in the first quarter of each calendar year as many customers return to work. While we believe these intra-period trends have affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results, our trajectory of rapid growth may have overshadowed these effects to date. Additionally, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from repeat customers who have purchased subscription plans, our revenues have historically been less volatile than if we had no subscription-based customers. Corporate and Available Information After launching our marketplace in 2003, we organized in the State of New York as Shutterstock, Inc. in December 2004, and we became Shutterstock Images LLC in June 2007. On October 5, 2012, we reorganized from Shutterstock Images LLC, a New York limited liability company, or the LLC, to Shutterstock, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as the Reorganization. We completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in October 2012, and completed a follow-on offering in September 2013. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SSTK". 11 Table of Contents Our principal office is located in the Empire State Building at 350 Fifth Avenue, 21st Floor, New York, New York 10118, and our telephone number is (646) 766-1855 . Our website address is www.shutterstock.com. Our investor relations website is located at http://investor.shutterstock.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading "SEC Filings" our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the public may read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that includes filings of and information about issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks or the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business The success of our business depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplace for creative content. The success of our business and our future growth depends significantly on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to our online marketplace for creative content, as well as continue to retain existing customers and contributors. To maintain and increase our revenue, we must regularly add new customers and retain our existing customers. An increase in paying customers has generally attracted more content from contributors, which increases our content selection and in turn attracts additional paying customers. To attract new customers and contributors and retain existing customers and contributors, we rely heavily on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, the size and content of our collection and the functionality and features of our marketplace. Our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, our collection may fail to grow as anticipated and new technologies may render the systems and features of our marketplace obsolete, any of which would adversely affect our results of operations and future growth prospects. Our business depends in large part on repeat customer purchases from both our subscription-based and our On Demand purchase options. If customers reduce or cease their spending with us, or if content contributors reduce or end their participation in our marketplace, our business will be harmed. The majority of our revenue is derived from customers who have purchased with us in the past. As a result, our future performance largely depends on our ability to motivate our customers to continue to purchase from us. A key factor in creating such an incentive is our ability to provide customers with the content they seek and to refresh and grow our collection of digital content based on current and future trends. We seek to achieve these goals by expanding our products, attracting new contributors to our marketplace and retaining our existing contributors. If we are unable to attract new contributors, retain existing contributors or add new content to our online marketplace, or if we fail to do so in a timely manner, customers requiring new and up-to-date content may reduce their spending with us. Another key factor in retaining our existing customers is our ability to deliver a user experience that continues to meet customers' needs, including the quality and accuracy of our search algorithms. If we are unable to maintain or improve upon the user experience that we deliver customers in a way that motivates our customers to continue to purchase from us, our business would be harmed. Furthermore, although historically the gross margins and revenue retention rates from our subscription-based and our On Demand purchase options have been substantially similar, there can be no assurance that this will continue in future periods. We operate in a new and rapidly changing market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. The market for creative stock content is a relatively new and rapidly changing market that may not develop as expected. Our business strategy and projections rely on a number of assumptions about the market for creative stock content, including the size and projected growth of the market over the next several years. Some or all of these assumptions may be incorrect. The market for online creative content may not develop as we expect or as third party analysts have forecasted or we may fail to address the needs of this market. The limited history of the market in which we operate makes it difficult to effectively assess our future prospects, and you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter in this evolving market. These risks and difficulties include our ability to: attract new customers and retain existing customers; offer customers the kinds of content they are seeking; successfully compete with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the creative content marketplace; protect against the misuse of our content; 13 Table of Contents raise awareness of our online community and brand name; successfully expand our business; continue to develop a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased customer and contributor usage globally, as well as the deployment of new features and services; and avoid interruptions or disruptions in our services, including, for example, disruptions attributable to security breaches or other security incidents. We may not be able to successfully address these risks and difficulties or others, including those described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section. We cannot accurately predict whether our products and services will achieve significant acceptance by potential customers in significantly larger numbers than at present, or whether our products and services will continue to be accepted by our current customers. You should therefore not rely on our historic growth rates as an indication of future growth. Our business is highly competitive. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. The creative content industry is intensely competitive. Competition may result in loss of market share, pricing pressures or reduced profit margins, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We compete with a wide array of companies, from significant media companies to individual content creators, to provide creative content to users of such content. These competitors include: other online marketplaces for imagery such as iStockphoto, Adobe's Adobestock offering which was launched after its acquisition of Fotolia, and Dreamstime; traditional stock content providers such as Getty Images and Corbis Corporation (whose content licensing business was recently acquired by an affiliate of Visual China Group); specialized visual content companies that are established in local, content or product-specific market segments; providers of commercially licensable music such as Universal Music Publishing Group, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, Warner Music Group, and EMI Music Publishing; websites focused on image search and discovery such as Google Images; websites for image hosting, art and related products such as Flickr; other providers of cloud-based digital asset management tools; social networking and social media services; and commissioned photographers and photography agencies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the creative content industry are: brand awareness; company reputation; the quality, relevance and diversity of content; the ability to source new content; the content licensing options and the degree to which users are protected from legal risk; the effective use of current and emerging technology; the accessibility of content, distribution capability, and speed and ease of search and fulfillment; customer service; and the global nature of a company's interfaces and marketing efforts, including local languages, currencies, and payment methods. In addition, demand for our services is sensitive to price. Many external factors, including our technology and personnel costs and our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies, could significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers' price expectations, we could lose customers. A drop in our prices without a corresponding increase in volume would negatively impact our revenue. Some of our existing and potential competitors have or may obtain significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources or greater brand awareness than we have. Some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or expanding technology and devote more resources to product development, marketing or content acquisition than we can. If competitors offer higher royalties, easier contribution workflows, less selective vetting processes or convince contributors to distribute their content on an exclusive basis, contributors may choose to stop distributing new content with us or remove their existing content from our collection. Competitors may also seek to develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content types that we offer obsolete or less competitive. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors, our growth prospects and results of operations may be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents New competitors could enter our market for creative content, and we may be unsuccessful in competing with these new entrants. New competitors may enter our market for creative content, particularly if technological advances or other market dynamics make creating, sourcing, archiving, indexing, reviewing, searching or delivering creative content easier or more affordable. While we believe that there are obstacles to creating a meaningful network effect between customers and contributors, the barriers to creating a website that allows for the sale of digital content are low, which could result in greater competition. Our contributors, for example, may freely offer the content they provide to us to our competitors and may remove their content from our collection at any time. New entrants may raise significant amounts of capital and they may choose to prioritize increasing their market share and brand awareness over profitability, including, for example, by offering higher royalties for exclusivity. Additionally, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest in or partner with our competitors or leverage their own image-related competencies to enter our market. For example, Adobe recently acquired one of our competitors, Fotolia, to enter our market for digital content, and it is possible that this acquisition may negatively impact our business and financial condition. If we are unable to compete successfully against new entrants, our growth prospects and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent the misuse of our digital content and we may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions to protect our rights and the digital content in our collection. Certain countries are very lax in enforcing intellectual property laws. Litigation in those countries will likely be costly and ineffective. Consequently, these intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. Unauthorized parties have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to improperly use the digital content in our collection. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to prevent the unauthorized use of our digital content or that we will be successful in stopping such use once it is detected. We have been subject to a variety of third-party infringement claims in the past and will likely be subject to similar claims in the future. We license all of our digital content from photographers, illustrators, videographers and composers, and, although we generally have staff committed to reviewing the content that we accept into our collection, we cannot guarantee that each contributor holds the rights or releases he or she claims or that such rights and releases are adequate. As a result, we may be subject to infringement claims or other claims by third parties. Furthermore, we offer our customers indemnification at amounts ranging from $10,000 to $250,000, with certain exceptions for which our indemnification obligations are uncapped, for direct damages attributable to our breach of the express representations and warranties contained in our license agreements, which provide that unaltered content downloaded and used in compliance with the license agreement and applicable law does not infringe any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property right, violate any third parties' rights of privacy or publicity, or violate any U.S. law, or is not defamatory, libelous, pornographic or obscene. However, our contractual maximum liability may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions. In addition, we maintain insurance policies to cover potential intellectual property disputes. Since January 1, 2013, we have not incurred any material financial liability as a result of these indemnification obligations and aggregate amounts paid to date to settle customer indemnification claims have not been material to our business. Although we have insurance to cover indemnification claims, and although, to date, these claims have not resulted in any material liability to us, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses related to such claims and related settlements, which may increase over time. If a third-party infringement claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against all losses. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition and reputation, strain our management and financial resources, and adversely affect our business. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights or rights related to their use of technology. Some internet, technology and media companies, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties may in the future assert that we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights, and as we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Such litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. Existing laws and regulations are evolving and subject to different interpretations, and various federal and state legislative or regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws or regulations. We cannot guarantee that we are not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights or rights related to use of technology. 15 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or any infringement or misappropriation or other claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court, or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's intellectual property; cease making, licensing or using content that is alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our technology; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, content, or materials; and to indemnify our partners and other third parties. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. In addition, any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. Unless we increase market awareness of our company and our services, our revenue may not continue to grow. We believe that our ability to attract and retain new customers and contributors depends in large part on our ability to increase our brand awareness within our industry. In order to increase the number of our customers and contributors, we may be required to expend greater resources on advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance customer and contributor awareness of our brand. Currently, a significant portion of our marketing spending consists of search engine marketing, which exposes us to risk in the event that one or more large search engines were to reconfigure their algorithms in such a way that would result in less business for us. Our marketing campaigns or other efforts to increase our brand awareness may not succeed in bringing new visitors to our online marketplace or converting such visitors to paying customers or contributors and may not be cost-effective. Our brand may be impaired by a number of other factors, including disruptions in service due to technology issues, data privacy and security issues, and exploitation of our trademarks and other intellectual property by others without our permission. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results may suffer. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant growth, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. We expect that our growth strategy will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable operation of our online marketplaces for our customers and contributors, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. As our operations have grown in size, scope and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure, which will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to allocate limited resources effectively in our organization as it grows and do not successfully implement improved technology and infrastructure, our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer. If we do not respond to technological changes or upgrade our websites and technology systems, our growth prospects and results of operations could be adversely affected. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our websites in addition to our infrastructure. For example, as the proportion of our business related to video footage licensing continues to increase, we will need to expand and enhance our technological capabilities to ingest, store and search video content in ways that are similar to our management of images. A video footage clip represents significantly more data as compared to a still image. As a result, we will need to continue to improve and expand our hosting and network infrastructure and related software capabilities. These improvements may require greater levels of spending than we have experienced in the past. Without such improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow application performance or unreliable service levels, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and contributors. Furthermore, in order to continue to attract and retain new customers, we are likely to incur expenses in connection with continuously updating and improving our user interface and experience. We may face significant delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. If competitors introduce new products and services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites and our proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete or less competitive, and our business may be harmed. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance that our business will improve. 16 Table of Contents Technological interruptions that impair access to our websites or the efficiency of our marketplace could damage our reputation and brand and adversely affect our results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites and our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation, our ability to attract and retain both customers and contributors to our online marketplace and our ability to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability of our websites could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand or adversely affect our results of operations. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience temporary system interruptions for a variety of reasons, including security breaches and other security incidents, viruses, telecommunication and other network failures, power failures, software errors, data corruption, denial-of-service attacks, or an overwhelming number of visitors trying to reach our websites during periods of strong demand. We rely upon third-party service providers, such as co-location and cloud service providers, for our data centers and application hosting, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide continuous power, cooling, internet connectivity and physical security for our servers. In the event that these third-party providers experience any interruption in operations or cease business for any reason, or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, our business could be harmed and we could be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. Although we operate two data centers in an active/standby configuration for geographic redundancy and even though we maintain a third disaster recovery facility to back up our collection, a system disruption at the active data center could result in a noticeable disruption to our websites until all website traffic is redirected to the standby data center. Even a disruption as brief as a few minutes could have a negative impact on marketplace activities and could result in a loss of revenue. Because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have entered into service level agreements with some of our larger customers. Technological interruptions could result in a breach of such agreements and subject us to considerable penalties. One of our strategic goals is to generate a larger percentage of our revenue from larger companies, which may place greater demands on us in terms of increased service, indemnification or working capital requirements, any of which could increase our costs or substantially harm our business and operating results. One of our strategic goals is to increase the percentage of our revenue that comes from larger companies, in addition to the small and medium-size companies from whom we have generated the majority of our revenue historically. In order to win the business of larger companies, we may face greater demands in terms of increased service requirements, greater indemnification requirements, greater pricing pressure, and greater working capital to accommodate the larger receivables and collections issues that are likely to occur as a result of being paid on credit terms. If we are unable to adequately address those demands, it may affect our ability to grow our business in this segment, which may adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. If we address those demands in a way that expands our risk of infringement claims, significantly increases our operating costs, reduces our ability to maintain or increase pricing, or increases our working capital requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. Continuing expansion into international markets is important for our growth, and as we continue to expand internationally, we face additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks, any of which could increase our costs or otherwise limit our growth. Continuing to expand our business to attract customers and contributors in countries other than the United States is a critical element of our business strategy. In 2015 , approximately 66% of our revenue was derived from customers located outside of the United States. While a significant portion of our customers reside outside of the United States, we have a limited operating history as a company outside the United States. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to international expansion through establishing additional offices, hiring additional overseas personnel and exploring acquisition opportunities. In addition, we expect to increase marketing for our foreign language offerings and to further localize our collection and user experience for foreign markets. Our ability to expand our business and to attract talented employees, as well as customers and contributors, in an increasing number of international markets requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. Expanding our international focus may subject us to risks that we have not faced before or increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: modifying our technology and marketing our offerings for customers and contributors beyond the 20 languages we currently offer; localizing our content to foreign customers' preferences and customs; legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries, including, among others, restrictions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) on the ability 17 Table of Contents of U.S. companies to do business in certain specified foreign countries or with certain specified organizations and individuals; compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including disclosure requirements, privacy laws, marketing restrictions, rights of publicity, technology laws and laws relating to our content; disturbances in a specific country's or region's political, economic or military conditions, including potential sanctions (e.g., recent significant civil, political and economic disturbances in Russia, Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula); protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights; recruiting and retaining talented and capable management and employees in foreign countries; potential adverse foreign tax consequences; strains on our financial and other systems to properly administer VAT, withholdings and other taxes; currency exchange fluctuations; and higher costs associated with doing business internationally. These risks may make it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand to new international markets, or delay entry into such markets, which may affect our ability to grow our business. In addition, we could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are imposed or expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. For example, the Russian government recently passed a law effective September 1, 2015 requiring companies that collect personal data of Russian citizens to process and store that data on servers located in Russia. In addition, the European Court of Justice recently invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor regime on which we depended to legitimize some of our data flows from Europe to the United States. As a result, we are in the process of implementing alternative mechanisms to comply with Russian data localization laws and European Union privacy laws. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully comply with these laws, and therefore we may be in violation of all or some of these laws. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to non-U.S. sales and operations, including non-U.S. economic and political conditions and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our results. As of December 31, 2015, we had operations based in a number of territories outside of the United States and a significant portion of our business is conducted throughout the world and may be transacted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions, including inflation, inherent in operating in foreign countries, including those in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Such changes include changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where the we have operations, hyperinflation, currency devaluation, currency controls, changes in consumer purchasing habits as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations governing foreign trade and investment. Our net sales to customers outside of the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were approximately 66% , 67% and 68% of our revenue, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets, which in turn may adversely affect our reported revenues and earnings or the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. At this time we do not, but we may in the future, enter into derivatives or other financial instruments in order to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. It is difficult to predict the impact hedging activities would have on our results of operations. Our operations may expose us to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have operations in various taxing jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries, and there is a risk that the fiscal authorities in one or more jurisdictions may contend that our tax liabilities could be greater relative to prior taxable periods and more than anticipated relative to future taxable periods. 18 Table of Contents We believe our worldwide provision for income taxes is reasonable, but our ultimate tax liability may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially adversely affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We have created reserves with respect to such tax liabilities where we believe it to be appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that our ultimate tax liability will not exceed the reserves that we have created. Furthermore, the current administration of the U.S. federal government has made public statements indicating that it has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed changes to U.S. tax laws. Changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future could impact our tax liabilities. In addition, the OECD has issued guidelines to its members aimed at encouraging broad-based legislative initiatives intended to prevent purported taxation base erosion transactions and income shifting in a tax-advantaged manner, known as BEPS. One of the most important areas on which the OECD has focused is the taxation implications of e-commerce businesses (which would potentially include our business). The OECD encouraged further review and study with the stated expectation that legislative recommendations that seek to equitably allocate the right to tax such e-commerce businesses among all of the jurisdictions that might have an interest in assessing such taxes will be forthcoming. However, it is possible any efforts to assess such taxes by these jurisdictions will be uncoordinated which could result in greater or even double taxation that businesses may not have sufficient means to remedy. Efforts to alleviate this increased tax burden would increase the cost of structuring and compliance. Due to the expanding scale of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. or international taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. Our operations may expose us to greater than anticipated withholding, sales and transaction tax liabilities, including VAT, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to withholding, sales or other transaction taxes (including VAT) on our past and future transactions in such jurisdictions where we are required to report taxable transactions. A successful assertion by any jurisdiction that we failed to pay such withholding, sales or other transaction taxes, or the imposition of new laws requiring the payment of such taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage customers from purchasing digital content from us, or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Further, we are subject to compliance requirements for certain of these taxes. Where appropriate, we have made accruals for these taxes, which are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Within the next one to three years, we believe that the resolution of certain of these tax matters are reasonably possible and that a change in estimate may occur. While such a change may be significant, it is not possible to provide a range of the potential change until such matters progress further or the related statutes of limitation expire Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and all of our other intellectual property rights, including our intellectual property rights underlying our online marketplace and search algorithms. We protect our intellectual property rights under trade secret, trademark, copyright and patent law, and through a combination of employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, other contractual restrictions, and other methods. These afford only limited protection. Similarly, third parties may be able to independently develop similar or superior technology, processes, content or other intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property and use our trade secrets and other confidential information. Moreover, policing our intellectual property rights is difficult, costly and may not always be effective. To the extent these unauthorized parties, which may include our competitors, are successful in copying aspects of, or using without our authorization, our search algorithms and our trade secrets, our business could be harmed. We have registered or applied to register "Shutterstock", "Offset", "Bigstock", "WebDAM", "PremiumBeat" and "Rex Features" and associated logos and other marks as trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions. Nevertheless, competitors may adopt service names confusingly similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to confusion among our customers. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term "Shutterstock" or our other trademarks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. We are the registered owner of the shutterstock.com, bigstock.com, offset.com, webdam.com, premiumbeat.com, and rexfeatures.com internet domain names and various other related domain names. Domain names are generally regulated by internet regulatory bodies. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced either to 19 Table of Contents incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country or to elect not to sell products in that country. Either result could harm our business and operating results. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize our brand names in the United States or other countries in which we conduct business or in which we may conduct business in the future. In order to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation of trade secrets or any unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover or develop our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce or determine the scope of our trade secret rights and related confidentiality and nondisclosure provisions. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, or our competitors' acquisition of our trade secrets or independent development of unpatented technology similar to ours or competing technologies, could adversely affect our competitive business position. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and foreign countries is and in the future will be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Furthermore, the monitoring and protection of our intellectual property rights may become more difficult, costly and time consuming as we continue to expand internationally, particularly in certain markets, such as China and certain other developing countries in Asia, in which legal protection of intellectual property rights is less robust than in the United States and in Europe. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management time, each of which could substantially harm our operating results. Much of the software and technologies used to provide our services incorporate, or have been developed with, "open source" software, which may restrict how we use or distribute our services or require that we publicly release certain portions of our source code. Much of the software and technologies used to provide our services incorporate, or have been developed with, "open source" software. Such "open source" software may be subject to third party licenses that impose restrictions on our software and services. Examples of "open source" licenses include the GNU General Public License and GNU Lesser General Public License. Such open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. Few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. We rely on multiple software engineers to design our proprietary technologies, and we do not exercise complete control over the development efforts of our engineers. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our services and technologies and materially and adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our business. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our results to fall short of expectations and our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: our ability to retain our current customers and to attract new customers and contributors; our ability to provide new and relevant content to our customers; our ability to effectively manage our growth; the effects of increased competition on our business; our ability to keep pace with changes in technology or our competitors; changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; 20 Table of Contents interruptions in service, whether or not we are responsible for such interruptions, and any related impact on our reputation and brand; costs associated with defending any litigation or other claims, including those related to our indemnification of our customers; our ability to pursue, and the timing of, entry into new geographies or markets and, if pursued, our management of this expansion; the impact of general economic conditions on our revenue and expenses; seasonality; changes in government regulation affecting our business; and costs related to potential acquisitions of technology or businesses. Because of these risks and others, it is possible that our future results may be below our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. In such an event, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. Our failure to protect the confidential information of our customers and our networks against security breaches and the risks associated with credit card fraud could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation. We collect certain confidential information in connection with registering customers and contributors and other marketplace-related processes on our websites and, in particular, in connection with processing and remitting payments to and from our customers and contributors. Although we maintain security features on our websites, our security measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our websites. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of the confidential information that we process for our customers, and such technology may fail to function properly or may be compromised or breached. Additionally, as described above, we use third-party payment processors and co-location and cloud service vendors for our data centers and application hosting, and their security measures may not prevent security breaches and other disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through their systems. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures, or the security measures of our third-party payment processers or co-location and cloud service vendors for our data centers and application hosting, could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage or misuse our websites, distribute or delete content owned by our contributors, and misuse the information that they misappropriate. Additionally, our systems may be breached by third parties without our being aware that our systems or data have been compromised. Given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, attack, disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems, are constantly evolving in sophisticated ways to avoid detection, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. In addition, a significant cyber-security breach could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks. Security and fraud-related issues are likely to become more challenging as we expand our operations. Furthermore, some of the software and services that we use to operate our business, including our internal email and customer relationship management software, are hosted by third parties. If these services were to experience a security breach or be interrupted or were to cause us to lose control of confidential information, our business operations could be disrupted and we could be exposed to liability and costly litigation. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder's signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal impact to our financial statements from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. If any compromise of our security, or that of our third-party payment processers or co-location and cloud service vendors for our data centers and application hosting, were to occur, we may lose customers and our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Any compromise of security may result in us being out of compliance with U.S. federal and state laws, and international laws and contractual commitments, and we may be subject to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, and other costs, including for provision of breach notices and credit monitoring to our customers. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory 21 Table of Contents requirements or orders or other federal, state, or international privacy, security or consumer protection-related laws and regulations, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Government regulation of the internet, both in the United States and abroad, is evolving and unfavorable changes could have a negative impact on our business. The adoption, modification or interpretation of laws or regulations relating to the internet, e-commerce or other areas of our business could adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business or the overall popularity or growth in use of the internet. Such laws and regulations may cover a vast array of activities, for example, automatic contract or subscription renewal, credit card fraud and processing, sales, advertising and other procedures, taxation, tariffs, data privacy, management and storage, cyber-security, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, outsourcing, broadband residential internet access, internet neutrality and the characteristics and quality of products or services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. In certain countries, such as those in Europe, such laws may be more restrictive than in the United States. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, data privacy and security apply to the internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the internet or e-commerce. Those laws that relate to the internet are at various stages of development and interpretation by the courts and agencies, and thus, the scope and reach of their applicability can be uncertain. For example, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act in the U.S. regulates the ability of online services to collect, use or disclose certain information from children under the age of thirteen. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to renew subscriptions automatically, make it more difficult to attract new customers or otherwise alter our business model, or cause us to divert resources and funds to address government or private investigatory or adversarial proceedings. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently provide content licensing to customers in more than 150 countries. The data privacy, security and localization, censorship and liability standards and other potentially applicable rules or regulations, and intellectual property laws of those foreign countries, may be different than those in the United States. To the extent that any local laws or regulations apply to our company or operations and we are deemed to not be in compliance with them, our business may be harmed. For example, the Russian government recently passed a law effective September 1, 2015 requiring companies that collect personal data of Russian citizens to process and store that data on servers located in Russia. In addition, the European Court of Justice recently invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor regime on which we depended to legitimize some of our data flows from Europe to the United States. As a result, we are in the process of implementing alternative mechanisms to comply with Russian data localization laws and European Union data protection laws. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully comply with these laws, and therefore we may be in violation of all or some of these laws. In addition, the OECD has issued guidelines to its members aimed at encouraging broad-based legislative initiatives intended to prevent purported taxation base erosion transactions and income shifting in a tax-advantaged manner, known as BEPS. One of the most important areas on which the OECD has focused is the taxation implications of e-commerce businesses (which would potentially include our business). The OECD encouraged further review and study with the stated expectation that legislative recommendations that seek to equitably allocate the right to tax such e-commerce businesses among all of the jurisdictions that might have an interest in assessing such taxes will be forthcoming. However, it is possible any efforts to assess such taxes by these jurisdictions will be uncoordinated which could result in greater or even double taxation that businesses may not have sufficient means to remedy. Efforts to alleviate this increased tax burden would increase the cost of structuring and compliance. Action by governments to restrict access to, or operation of, our products or services in their countries could substantially harm our business and financial results. Foreign governments, or internet service providers acting pursuant to foreign government policies or orders, of one or more countries may seek to censor content available through our products and services in their country, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely, or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products or services in their country for an extended period of time or indefinitely if our products and services are deemed to be in violation of their local laws and regulations. For example, domestic internet service providers have blocked access to Shutterstock in China and other countries, such as Turkey, have intermittently restricted access to Shutterstock. Additionally, the governments of Russia and Turkey have recently imposed new regulations that will require local transaction processing by payment service providers. In addition, the Russian government recently passed a law requiring that personal data of Russian 22 Table of Contents citizens must be stored on servers located in Russia. If we are subject to these new regulations and laws, or are not eligible for an exception, we may be forced to significantly change or discontinue our operations in such markets. In the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our contributor and customer base may be adversely affected, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated, and our financial results could be adversely affected. Expansion of our operations into additional content categories and service areas may subject us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks. Currently, our operations are focused in significant part on our two-sided marketplace for creative content and our digital asset management platform, WebDAM. Further expansion of our operations and our marketplace into additional content categories or into new services involves numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, potential new competitors and the need to develop new contributor and strategic relationships. Growth into additional content and service areas may require changes to our existing business model and cost structure and modifications to our infrastructure and may expose us to new regulatory and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in which we have little or no experience. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from sales of such content and services to offset the costs of acquiring such content and services. The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including effects on advertising and marketing budgets, may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our financial condition is affected by worldwide economic conditions and their impact on advertising spending. Expenditures by advertisers generally tend to reflect overall economic conditions, and to the extent that the economy stagnates, companies may reduce their spending on advertising and marketing, and thus the use of our online marketplace. This could have a serious adverse impact on our business. To the extent that overall economic conditions reduce spending on advertising and marketing activities, our ability to retain current and obtain new customers could be hindered, which could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our business. The loss of key personnel, an inability to attract and retain additional personnel or difficulties in the integration of new members of our management team into our company could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. Our future success will depend upon our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, product development, marketing, content operations and customer service employees. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts to attract such personnel. We are highly dependent on the continued service and performance of our senior management team, as well as key technical and marketing personnel. Our inability to find suitable replacements for any of the members of our senior management team and our key technical and marketing personnel, should they leave our employ, would adversely impair our ability to implement our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe the successful integration of our management team is critical to managing our operations effectively and to supporting our growth. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork and focus that contribute crucially to our business. We believe that a critical component of our success is our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, encourages teamwork, cultivates creativity and promotes a focus on execution. We have invested substantial time, energy and resources in building a highly collaborative team that works together effectively in a non-hierarchical environment designed to promote openness, honesty, mutual respect and pursuit of common goals. As we continue to grow and expand our operations globally, we may find it difficult to maintain these valuable aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively impact our future success, including our ability to attract and retain employees, encourage innovation and teamwork and effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. If we do not successfully integrate past or potential future acquisitions, our business could be adversely impacted. We have in the past pursued, and we may in the future pursue, acquisitions that are complementary to our existing business and that may expand our employee base and the breadth of our offerings. Future acquisitions or investments could result in potential dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of significant cash balances or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. 23 Table of Contents Integration of a new company's operations, assets and personnel into ours may require significant attention from our management. The diversion of our management's attention away from our current operations or the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could harm our ability to manage our business. For example, in January 2015 we completed the acquisitions of Rex Features and PremiumBeat and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate these businesses or any other companies, products or technologies that we acquire. Future acquisitions will expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with any acquired liabilities, the integration of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, information security vulnerabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, contributors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or functions of our online marketplace, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional capital. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. We are subject to payment-related risks that may result in higher operating costs or the inability to process payments, either of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards and debit cards. As we offer new payment options to consumers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, for example, if they were to suffer a cyberattack or security incident. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from consumers or facilitate other types of online payments. We are also subject to, or voluntarily comply with, a number of other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our operations. We depend on the continued growth of online commerce and the continued adoption of digital content. If these trends do not continue, our growth prospects and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The business of selling goods and services over the internet is dynamic and, in certain of our foreign markets, relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is higher than in other countries, acquiring new customers may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our customer base, we may need to appeal to and acquire customers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and services. If these target customers prove to be less active than our earlier customers, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, our growth is highly dependent upon the continued demand for digital content. The creative content market is rapidly evolving, characterized by changing technologies, intense price competition, introduction of new competitors, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. To the extent that demand for creative content does not continue to grow as expected, our revenue growth will suffer. 24 Table of Contents The non-payment of amounts due to us from certain of our larger customers may negatively impact our financial condition. Our revenue generated through direct sales to large organizations has grown in recent years and represents less than 30% of our total revenue as of December 31, 2015 . A portion of these customers typically purchase our products on payment terms and therefore we assume a credit risk for non-payment in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate the credit worthiness of new customers and perform ongoing financial condition evaluations of our existing customers, however there can be no assurance that our allowances for uncollected accounts receivable balances will be sufficient. As of December 31, 2015 , our allowance for doubtful accounts was $3.8 million . If the volume of sales to large organizations continues to grow, we expect to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts primarily as the result of changes in the volume of sales to customers who pay on payment terms. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure. If the internet infrastructure experiences outages or delays our business could be adversely impacted. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as the timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable internet access and services. The internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and amount of traffic. The internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements or problems caused by viruses, worms, malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the internet. The backbone network of the internet has been the target of such programs. The internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services, which could adversely impact our business. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism or computer viruses. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins or similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that we may incur. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. Our principal executive offices are located in New York City, a region that has experienced acts of terrorism in the past. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. Although we have disaster recovery capabilities, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer from business interruption as a result of any such events. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality service to our customers and contributors, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, result in loss of existing or potential customers and contributors and increased maintenance costs, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in 2012 at a price of $17.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices per share of our common stock have ranged from $21.00 to $103.01 through February 19, 2016 . These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock since you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this "Risk Factors" section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in projected operational and financial results; announcements about our share repurchase program, including purchases or the suspension of purchases under the program; issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; 25 Table of Contents the use by investors or analysts of third-party data regarding our business that may not reflect our actual performance; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares, or the size of our public float; and general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, certain companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their common stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. As of February 19, 2016 , we had 35,283,219 shares of common stock outstanding. All shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for shares held by our "affiliates," which remain subject to the restrictions set forth in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As of February 19, 2016 , the holders of approximately 16 million shares of common stock were entitled to rights with respect to registration of these shares under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration rights agreement. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options granted in exchange for value appreciation right, or VAR, grants outstanding as of the time of the Reorganization, as well as options and shares reserved for future issuance under our 2012 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan and our 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shares issued pursuant to such options and plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and vesting, subject to the lock-up agreements contained in the terms of the award agreements delivered under such plans, or unless they are held by "affiliates," as that term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act. We may also issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Jonathan Oringer, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, controls approximately 45.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and his ownership percentage may increase, including as a result of share repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase program. This concentration of ownership may have an effect on matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including elections to our board of directors and transactions that are otherwise favorable to our stockholders. As of February 19, 2016 , Jonathan Oringer, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and our largest stockholder, owned approximately 45.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of Mr. Oringer, regardless of the impact of such transaction on our other stockholders. Additionally, if we purchase additional shares pursuant to our share repurchase program, Mr. Oringers ownership percentage would increase, and, depending on the magnitude of our repurchases and other factors, could result in his owning a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If Mr. Oringer were to own a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, he would have the ability to control the outcome of certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors and significant corporate transactions. Additionally, this could trigger certain change in control provisions in our employment agreements and agreements relating to certain outstanding equity awards. 26 Table of Contents Purchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program may affect the value of our common stock, and there can be no assurance that our share repurchase program will enhance shareholder value. Pursuant to our publicly announced share repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $100 million of our outstanding common stock. We had approximately $84.4 million remaining under this authorization as of December 31, 2015. The timing and amount of any share repurchases will be determined based on market conditions, share price and other factors. This activity could increase (or reduce the size of any decrease in) the market price of our common stock at the time of such repurchases. Additionally, repurchases under our share repurchase program have and will continue to diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our common stock has declined, and may continue to decline. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the programs effectiveness. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs and our management will continue to face increased demands as a result of continuously improving our operations as a public company. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, tax, insurance, accounting and other expenses as a result of continuously improving our operations as a public company. In addition, our administrative staff has performed and will continue to be required to perform tasks consistent with those of other public companies. For example, we intend to implement a new enterprise resource planning software system that will replace a majority of our critical finance and financial operations systems. If we experience delays or difficulties in implementing the new enterprise resource planning system, or if we otherwise do not effectively manage our growth, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities, or satisfy customer requirements, among other things. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the stock exchanges are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We have incurred and will continue to incur higher costs to obtain directors' and officers' insurance as a result of operating as a public company. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and attract and retain qualified executive officers. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company may decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may cause us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services to offset the effect of such increased costs. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management's attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or in a timely fashion, and we may not be able to prevent fraud; in such case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. As a public company, we operate in an increasingly demanding regulatory environment, which requires us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, expanded disclosure requirements, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing and maintaining corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure