Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included in this Form 10-K. Financial data for fiscal years 2005 through 2006 has been reclassified to reflect the sale of our former Aero product lines as discontinued operations. The sale of these product lines closed in March 2007. See Note 3, Discontinued Operation , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Consolidated Statements of Income Data Revenues $ 441,020 $ 415,630 $ 337,461 $ 288,156 $ 238,587 Operating income 66,511 43,656 (2) 23,097 6,052 (6) 18,945 (7) Income from continuing operations 73,092 (1) 32,935 (2) 39,687 15,343 (6) 17,699 (7) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 165,149 (4) 15,815 29,807 Net income $ 73,092 (1) $ 32,935 (2) $ 204,836 (4) $ 31,158 (6) $ 47,506 (7) Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 1.62 $ 0.68 $ 0.72 $ 0.28 $ 0.33 Diluted $ 1.57 $ 0.67 $ 0.70 $ 0.27 $ 0.32 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 434,899 $ 325,360 (3) $ 572,974 (5) $ 386,292 $ 363,710 Working capital 435,359 289,716 (3) 599,300 (5) 402,085 369,304 Total assets 742,838 624,245 (3) 840,246 (5) 686,995 601,062 Long-term obligations 24,403 48,789 43,309 16,691 7,418 Total stockholders' equity 629,796 502,460 (3) 703,545 568,682 498,048 (1) Includes a benefit related to the resolution of prior year uncertain tax benefits. (2) Includes a charge for in-process research and development costs in connection with our acquisition of Integration Associates. (3) Reflects repurchases of our common stock in fiscal 2008. (4) Includes a gain on the sale of our Aero product lines, net of related income taxes. (5) Includes proceeds from the sale of our Aero product lines, less repurchases of our common stock in fiscal 2007. (6) At the beginning of fiscal 2006, we changed our method of accounting for stock-based compensation to conform to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718-10, formerly FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment , (SFAS 123R). (7) Includes a charge for acquired research and development costs in connection with our acquisition of Silicon MAGIKE. 31 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the "Cautionary Statement" and "Risk Factors" above for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53- week year ending on the Saturday closest to December 31st. Fiscal year 2009 had 52 weeks and ended on January 2, 2010. Fiscal year 2008 had 53 weeks with the extra week occurring in the first quarter of the year and ended on January 3, 2009. Fiscal year 2007 had 52 weeks and ended December 29, 2007. Except as noted, financial results are for continuing operations. Our former Aero product lines are reported as discontinued operations. The sale of these product lines closed in March 2007. Overview We design and develop proprietary, analog-intensive, mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of applications. Mixed-signal ICs are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components in a broad range of applications in a variety of markets, including communications, consumer, industrial, automotive, medical and power management. Our major customers include 2Wire, Apple, Huawei, LG Electronics, Nokia, Philips, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Thomson and Varian Medical Systems. As a "fabless" semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third-parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Broadcast products, which include our broadcast radio receivers and transmitters, video tuners and demodulators, satellite set-top box receivers and satellite radio tuners; Access products, which include our ISOmodem embedded modems, Voice over IP products, such as our ProSLIC subscriber line interface circuits and voice direct access arrangement, and our Power over Ethernet devices; Broad-based products, which include 8-bit microcontroller products, timing products (including clocks, precision clock & data recovery ICs and oscillators), short-range wireless transceivers, isolators, current sensors and our QuickSense portfolio of touch, proximity and ambient light sensing devices; and Mature products, which include our silicon DAA for PC modems, DSL analog front end ICs, optical physical layer transceivers and RF Synthesizers. Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce next generation ICs with added functionality and further integration. In fiscal 2009, we introduced a family of ultra-efficient microcontrollers for power-sensitive and battery-powered embedded systems, a family of highly integrated, energy-efficient quad Power over Ethernet (PoE) Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE) controllers, a new line of automotive-qualified microcontrollers that 32 enable a dramatic reduction in system cost and footprint in body electronics applications, our QuickSense portfolio of highly accurate and fast-response touch, proximity and ambient light sensing devices, the expansion of our Any-Rate Precision Clock family with both a low jitter clock generator for broadcast video applications and web-customizable CMOS clock generators, a silicon hybrid TV tuner that supports both analog and digital broadcasts in a single device, a family of ProSLIC single channel telephony ICs for broadband networking equipment, the expansion of our small form factor microcontrollers in a tiny 2x2 mm footprint, a family of ISOpro high-performance, digital isolators, a family of high pin-count capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers for cost-sensitive embedded systems and the EZRadioPRO embedded wireless radio family. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expanding our total available market opportunity. During fiscal 2009, we had one customer, Samsung, whose purchases across a variety of product areas represented 16% of our total revenues. We had no customers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2008 or 2007. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Two of our distributors, Edom Technology and Avnet, represented 27% and 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2009, respectively. Edom represented 31% of our revenues during fiscal 2008. Edom and Avnet represented 36% and 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2007, respectively. There were no other distributors or contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. The percentage of our revenues derived from customers located outside of the United States was 88% in fiscal 2009 and 2008 and 87% in fiscal 2007. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, personal video recorders, set-top boxes, portable navigation devices and mobile handsets, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. Discontinued Operation In March 2007, we sold our Aero transceiver, AeroFONE single-chip phone and power amplifier product lines to NXP for $285 million in cash, plus additional earn-out potential of up to an aggregate 33 of $65 million over the following three years. The results of operations of the sold product lines have been presented as discontinued operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated almost exclusively by sales of our ICs. We recognize revenue on sales when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Generally, we recognize revenue from product sales to direct customers and contract manufacturers upon shipment. Certain of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing certain rights of return and price protection on products unsold by distributors. Accordingly, we defer the revenue and cost of revenue on such sales until the distributors sell the product to the end customer. Our products typically carry a one-year replacement warranty. Replacements have been insignificant to date. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. The vast majority of our revenues were negotiated at prices that reflect a discount from the list prices for our products. These discounts are made for a variety of reasons, including: 1) to establish a relationship with a new customer, 2) as an incentive for customers to purchase products in larger volumes, 3) to provide profit margin to our distributors who resell our products or 4) in response to competition. In addition, as a product matures, we expect that the average selling price for such product will decline due to the greater availability of competing products. Our ability to increase revenues in the future is dependent on increased demand for our established products and our ability to ship larger volumes of those products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties and amortization of purchased software, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; an allocated portion of our occupancy costs; and allocable depreciation of testing equipment and leasehold improvements. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, new product mask, wafer, packaging and test costs, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs for such operations. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, related allocable portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, patent litigation legal fees, costs related to relocating our headquarters and promotional and marketing expenses. In-Process Research and Development. In-process research and development (IPR&D) represents acquired technology resulting from business combinations that had not achieved technological feasibility as of the acquisition closing date and had no alternative future use. For acquisitions occurring prior to fiscal 2009, these costs were expensed on the date of acquisition. Beginning in fiscal 2009, IPR&D acquired in business combinations is recorded as an indefinite-lived 34 intangible asset at fair value. The asset is tested for impairment through its completion and then amortized over its useful life. Interest Income. Interest income reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net reflects foreign currency remeasurement adjustments and gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. Provision (benefit) for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable statutory rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses (including a portion of our stock compensation), research and development tax credits, interest income from tax-exempt investments and interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits. The following table sets forth our Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 36.6 38.5 38.6 Gross margin 63.4 61.5 61.4 Operating expenses: Research and development 23.7 24.3 26.5 Selling, general and administrative 24.7 24.2 28.1 In-process research and development 2.5 Operating expenses 48.4 51.0 54.6 Operating income 15.0 10.5 6.8 Other income (expense): Interest income 0.7 2.5 7.3 Interest expense (0.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Other income (expense), net (0.0 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 15.7 12.8 13.8 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (0.9 ) 4.9 2.0 Income from continuing operations 16.6 7.9 11.8 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 48.9 Net income 16.6 % 7.9 % 60.7 % Comparison of Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008 Revenues Revenues $ 441.0 $ 415.6 $ 25.4 6.1 % 35 The growth in revenue in fiscal 2009 was driven primarily by market share gains. Increased unit volumes outpaced declines in average selling prices. Unit volumes of our products increased compared to fiscal 2008 by 19.6%. Average selling prices decreased during the same period by 10.8%. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset these decreases to some degree. Gross Margin Gross margin $ 279.8 $ 255.8 $ 24.0 9.4 % Percent of revenue 63.4 % 61.5 % The increase in the dollar amount of gross margin in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to our increased sales. The increase in gross margin as a percent of revenue in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a charge of $2.2 million to record inventory acquired from Integration Associates at fair value during fiscal 2008, improvements in our inventory management and manufacturing cost reductions. We may continue to experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues may be offset to the extent we are able to: 1) introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our ICs; 2) achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; 3) achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or 4) reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Research and development $ 104.4 $ 101.2 $ 3.2 3.2 % Percent of revenue 23.7 % 24.3 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2009 was principally due to an increase of $3.7 million for personnel-related expenses, including personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Integration Associates. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues is due to our increased sales. For fiscal 2010, we expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars, but remain relatively stable as a percentage of sales. Significant recent development projects include a family of ultra-efficient microcontrollers for power-sensitive and battery-powered embedded systems, a family of highly integrated, energy-efficient quad PoE PSE controllers, a new line of automotive-qualified microcontrollers that enable a dramatic reduction in system cost and footprint in body electronics applications, our QuickSense portfolio of highly accurate and fast-response touch, proximity and ambient light sensing devices, the expansion of our Any-Rate Precision Clock family with both a low jitter clock generator for broadcast video applications and web-customizable 8-output CMOS clock generators, a silicon hybrid TV tuner that supports both analog and digital broadcasts in a single device, a family of ProSLIC single channel telephony ICs for broadband networking equipment, the expansion of our small form factor microcontrollers in a tiny 2x2 mm footprint, a family of ISOpro high-performance, digital isolators, a family of high pin-count capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers for cost-sensitive embedded systems and the EZRadioPRO embedded wireless radio family. 36 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative $ 108.8 $ 100.7 $ 8.1 8.1 % Percent of revenue 24.7 % 24.2 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2008 was principally due to an increase of $8.7 million for personnel-related expenses, including personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Integration Associates. For fiscal 2010, we expect that selling, general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars and decline slightly as a percentage of sales. In-Process Research and Development In-process research and development (IPR&D) recorded in connection with the acquisition of Integration Associates was $10.3 million in fiscal 2008. The IPR&D projects included optoelectronic, power, and radio transmitter and transceiver technologies. The optoelectronic projects are used for infrared data communications and proximity sensing. The power projects enable AC-DC conversion in power supply systems. The radio transmitters and transceivers projects enable the delivery of data over proprietary, short range wireless links. The fair value of each project was determined using the income approach. The discount rate applicable to the cash flows was 20%. This rate reflects the weighted-average cost of capital and the risks inherent in the development process. There was no acquisition of IPR&D in fiscal 2009. Interest Income Interest income $ 2.7 $ 10.4 $ (7.7 ) The decrease in interest income for the recent period was due to lower interest rates on the underlying instruments and lower average cash and investment balances. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2009 was $0.2 million compared to $0.4 million in fiscal 2008. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net in fiscal 2009 was $(0.1) million compared to $(0.6) million in fiscal 2008. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (4.1 ) $ 20.2 $ (24.3 ) Effective tax rate (6.0 )% 38.0 % The effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 decreased from the prior period, primarily due to resolution of uncertain tax positions as a result of us entering into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the U.S. 37 Internal Revenue Service during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 decreased from the prior period due to the intercompany license of certain technology and the non-deductible write-off of in-process research and development costs during fiscal 2008, both of which were related to the acquisition of Integration Associates. See Note 16, Income Taxes , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, the limited deductibility of stock compensation expense and other permanent items including changes to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Comparison of Fiscal 2008 to Fiscal 2007 Revenues Revenues $ 415.6 $ 337.5 $ 78.1 23.2 % The growth in the sales of our products in fiscal 2008 was driven primarily by increased revenues from all of our product groups. Unit volumes of our products increased compared to fiscal 2007 by 50.8%. Average selling prices decreased during the same period by 19.4%. Unit volumes and average selling prices were substantially affected by the addition of certain high volume, low average selling price products through the Integration Associates acquisition. Excluding the Integration Associates products, during the same period, unit volumes increased by 28.1% and average selling prices decreased by only 8.1%. Gross Margin Gross margin $ 255.8 $ 207.2 $ 48.6 23.4 % Percent of revenue 61.5 % 61.4 % The increase in the dollar amount of gross margin in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to our increased sales. Research and Development Research and development $ 101.2 $ 89.3 $ 11.9 13.3 % Percent of revenue 24.3 % 26.5 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2008 was principally due to (a) an increase of $8.6 million for personnel-related expenses, (b) $2.7 million of reduced occupancy and IT support costs during fiscal 2007, which were billed to NXP in connection with our transition services agreement (TSA) which has now expired, and (c) an increase of $1.8 million for product introduction costs. These impacts were partially offset by increased foreign research credits and incentives of $1.2 million in fiscal 2008. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues was due to our increased sales. 38 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative $ 100.7 $ 94.8 $ 5.9 6.2 % Percent of revenue 24.2 % 28.1 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2008 was principally due to (a) an increase of $6.4 million for personnel-related expenses, (b) $1.0 million of reduced occupancy costs during fiscal 2007 which were billed to NXP in connection with our TSA, and (c) an increase of $0.7 million for sales commissions. These impacts were partially offset by decreased legal fees, primarily related to litigation, of $2.6 million. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenues was due to our increased sales. In-Process Research and Development In-process research and development (IPR&D) recorded in connection with the acquisition of Integration Associates was $10.3 million in fiscal 2008. There was no acquisition of IPR&D in fiscal 2007. Interest Income Interest income $ 10.4 $ 24.5 $ (14.1 ) The decrease in interest income for fiscal 2008 was due to lower interest rates on the underlying instruments and lower average cash and investment balances. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2008 was $0.4 million compared to $0.6 million in fiscal 2007. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net in fiscal 2008 was $(0.6) million compared to $(0.5) million in fiscal 2007. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 20.2 $ 6.8 $ 13.4 Effective tax rate 38.0 % 14.7 % The effective tax rate for fiscal 2008 was higher than fiscal 2007 primarily due to a one-time tax cost associated with the intercompany licensing of certain intellectual property, the unfavorable impact of a reduction in tax exempt interest income and the non-deductible write-off of in-process research and development costs. These increases were partially offset by an increase in the foreign tax rate benefit and the reduction of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits due to the closure of an open tax year. 39 The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, tax exempt interest income, the limited deductibility of stock compensation expense and other permanent items including reductions of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and non-deductible in-process research and development. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ $ 165.1 $ (165.1 ) Revenues from our discontinued operations in fiscal 2008 were zero, as compared to $46.3 million in fiscal 2007. Income from our discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 included a gain on the sale of our Aero product lines of $224.9 million and a provision for income taxes of $62.2 million. We do not expect to recognize any additional revenue from our discontinued operations. See Note 3, Discontinued Operation , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Business Outlook We expect revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 to be in the range of $120 to $125 million. Furthermore, we expect our diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.33 to $0.38. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of January 2, 2010 consisted of $410.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our short-term investments consist primarily of U.S. government agency bonds and discount notes, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. Treasury bills, commercial paper, international government bonds and auction-rate securities purchased through UBS ("UBS auction-rate securities"). Our long-term investments consist of non-UBS auction-rate securities. Early in fiscal 2008, auctions for many of our auction-rate securities failed because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As of January 2, 2010, we held $51.3 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions. The securities had previously been valued using quoted prices in active markets. When the auctions began to fail, quoted prices for the securities were no longer observable. As such, we changed our fair value measurement methodology for all auction-rate securities from quoted prices in active markets to a cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. The underlying assets of our auction-rate securities consisted of student loans and municipal bonds, of which $47.3 million were guaranteed by the U.S. government and the remaining $4.0 million were privately insured. As of January 2, 2010, $40.3 million of the auction-rate securities had credit ratings of AAA, $4.0 million had credit ratings of AA and $7.0 million had a credit rating of BBB. These securities had contractual maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2046 and were yielding 0.46% to 2.79% per year at January 2, 2010. We are receiving the underlying cash flows on all of our auction-rate securities. The principal amounts associated with failed auctions are not expected to be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the security, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities mature. We are unable to predict if these funds will become available before their maturity dates. 40 In November 2008, we entered into an agreement with UBS AG, which provides us certain rights to sell to UBS the auction-rate securities which were purchased through them. As of January 2, 2010, we held $24.0 million par value auction-rate securities purchased from UBS. We have the option to sell these securities to UBS at par value from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. UBS, at its discretion, may purchase or sell these securities on our behalf at any time provided we receive par value for the securities sold. The issuers of the auction-rate securities continue to have the right to redeem the securities at their discretion. The agreement allows for the continuation of the accrual and payment of interest due on the securities. The agreement also provides us with access to loans of up to 75% of the market value of the unredeemed securities until June 30, 2010. These loans would carry interest rates which would be consistent with the interest income on the related auction-rate securities. As of January 2, 2010, we had no loans outstanding under this agreement. We do not expect to need access to the capital represented by any of our auction-rate securities prior to their maturities. We do not intend to sell, and we believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell, our non-UBS investments before their anticipated recovery in market value or final settlement at the underlying par value. See Note 5, Cash, Cash Equivalents and Investments , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Net cash provided by operating activities was $120.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to net cash provided of $119.7 million during fiscal 2008. Operating cash flows during fiscal 2009 reflect our net income of $73.1 million, adjustments of $66.2 million for depreciation, amortization, deferred income taxes and stock compensation, and a net cash outflow of $18.4 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable increased to $56.1 million at January 2, 2010 from $36.1 million at January 3, 2009. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from an increase in revenues during the three months ended January 2, 2010 compared to the three months ended January 3, 2009. Our average days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 40 days at January 2, 2010 from 33 days at January 3, 2009. Inventory increased to $31.5 million at January 2, 2010 from $28.3 million at January 3, 2009. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. Our average days of inventory (DOI) was 65 days at January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009. Net cash used in investing activities was $104.3 million during fiscal 2009, compared to net cash provided of $69.2 million during fiscal 2008. The decrease was principally due to an increase of $238.2 million in net outflows for purchases of investments and the receipt of $14.3 million previously held in escrow in connection with the sale of the Aero product lines during fiscal 2008, offset by a payment of $78.5 million for the acquisition of Integration Associates during fiscal 2008. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $12 to $16 million for fiscal 2010. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $6.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to net cash used of $281.0 million during fiscal 2008. The increase was principally due to a decrease of $266.0 million for repurchases of our common stock and an increase of $20.9 million from proceeds from the issuance of common stock. In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $150 million of our common stock prior to the end of 2010. 41 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 2, 2010 (in thousands): Operating lease obligations(1) $ 30,280 $ 7,642 $ 6,636 $ 6,474 $ 2,550 $ 1,307 $ 5,671 Purchase obligations(2) 35,021 34,705 316 Other long-term obligations(3) 720 456 264 (1) Operating lease obligations include amounts for leased facilities. (2) Purchase obligations include contractual arrangements in the form of purchase orders with suppliers where there is a fixed non-cancelable payment schedule or minimum payments due with a reduced delivery schedule. (3) We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when cash settlement with taxing authorities may occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. See Note 16, Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash and investment balances are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In March 2006, we entered into an operating lease agreement and a related participation agreement for a facility at 400 W. Cesar Chavez ("400 WCC") in Austin, Texas for our corporate headquarters. The lease has a term of seven years. The base rent for the term of the lease is an amount equal to the interest accruing on $44.3 million at 110 basis points over the three-month LIBOR (which would be approximately $1.9 million over the remaining term assuming LIBOR averages 0.25% during such term). In March 2008, we entered into an operating lease agreement and a related participation agreement for a facility at 200 W. Cesar Chavez ("200 WCC") in Austin, Texas for the expansion of our corporate headquarters. The lease has a term of five years. The base rent for the term of the lease is an amount equal to the interest accruing on $50.1 million at 155 basis points over the three-month LIBOR (which would be approximately $2.9 million over the remaining term assuming LIBOR averages 0.25% during such term). We have granted certain rights and remedies to the lessors in the event of certain defaults, including the right to terminate the leases, to bring suit to collect damages, and to compel us to purchase the facilities. The leases contain other customary representations, warranties, obligations, conditions, indemnification provisions and termination provisions, including covenants that we shall maintain unencumbered cash and highly-rated short-term investments of at least $75 million. If our unencumbered cash and highly-rated short-term investments are less than $150 million, we must also maintain a ratio of funded debt to earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, lease expense and other non-cash charges (EBITDAR) over the four prior fiscal quarters 42 of no greater than 2 to 1. As of January 2, 2010, we believe we were in compliance with all covenants of the leases. During the terms of the leases, we have on-going options to purchase the buildings for purchase prices of approximately $44.3 million for 400 WCC and $50.1 million for 200 WCC. Alternatively, we can cause each such property to be sold to third parties provided we are not in default under that property's lease. We are contingently liable on a first dollar loss basis for up to $35.3 million to the extent that the 400 WCC sale proceeds are less than the $44.3 million purchase option and up to $40.0 million to the extent that the 200 WCC sale proceeds are less than the $50.1 million purchase option. We determined that the fair value associated with the guaranteed residual values was $1.0 million for 400 WCC and $1.2 million for 200 WCC, as of the inception of the leases. These amounts were recorded in "Other assets, net" and "Long-term obligations and other liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are being amortized over the term of the leases. We are required to periodically evaluate the expected fair value of each facility at the end of the lease terms. If we determine that it is estimable and probable that the expected fair values will be less than $44.3 million for 400 WCC and $50.1 million for 200 WCC, we will ratably accrue the loss up to a maximum of approximately $35.3 million and $40.0 million, respectively, over the remaining lease terms as additional rent expense. As of January 2, 2010, we do not believe that a loss contingency accrual is required for either property. However, a prolonged economic downturn could increase the likelihood of such a loss accrual. In connection with our headquarters leases, during fiscal 2008 we entered into interest rate swap agreements as a hedge against the variable rent under the leases. Under the terms of the swap agreements, we have effectively converted the variable rents to fixed rents through March 2011 for 400 WCC and March 2013 for 200 WCC. See Note 6, Derivative Financial Instruments , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of revenues on sales to distributors; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its standard cost exceeds the estimated market value. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is 43 lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Stock compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The fair value of our stock-based awards is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes valuation calculation requires us to estimate key assumptions such as future stock price volatility, expected terms, risk-free rates and dividend yield. Expected stock price volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on our stock in the marketplace and historical volatility of our stock. The expected term of options granted is derived from an analysis of historical exercises and remaining contractual life of stock options, and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. We have never paid cash dividends, and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and thus have assumed a 0% dividend yield. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 13, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the security's amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. 44 The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. Income taxes We are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We then assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition; therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, it could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2009, the FASB issued the following: FASB ASC 820-10-65, formerly FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS No. 157-4, Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly , provides additional guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. This ASC also includes guidance on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. FASB ASC 320-10-65, formerly FSP No. FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments , amends the other-than-temporary impairment guidance in U.S. GAAP for debt securities to make the guidance more operational and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements. 45 FASB ASC 825-10-65, formerly FSP No. FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments , requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. These ASCs are effective for reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009 and were adopted by us on April 5, 2009. The adoption of the ASCs did not have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB ASC 260-10-45, formerly FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities. ASC 260-10-45 provides that unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method described in FASB ASC 260, Earnings per Share . ASC 260-10-45 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those years on a retrospective basis. We adopted ASC 260-10-45 at the beginning of fiscal 2009. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.