Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2017 will have 52 weeks and fiscal 2016 had 52 weeks. Our third quarter of fiscal 2017 ended September 30, 2017. Our third quarter of fiscal 2016 ended October 1, 2016. Overview We are a provider of silicon, software and solutions for the Internet of Things (IoT), Internet infrastructure, industrial, consumer and automotive markets. We solve some of the electronics industrys toughest problems, providing customers with significant advantages in performance, energy savings, connectivity and design simplicity. Mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components in products addressing a variety of markets, including industrial, communications, consumer and automotive. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs and software enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Internet of Things (IoT) products, which include our microcontroller (MCU), wireless, sensor and analog products; Broadcast products, which include our broadcast consumer and automotive products; Infrastructure products, which include our timing products (clocks and oscillators), and isolation devices; and Access products, which include our Voice over IP (VoIP) products, embedded modems and our Power over Ethernet (PoE) devices. Current Period Highlights Revenues increased $20.6 million in the recent quarter compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2016, primarily due to increased revenues from our IoT, Broadcast and Infrastructure products offset by decreased revenues from our Access products. Gross margin increased $8.4 million during the recent period due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin as a percent of revenues decreased to 58.7% in the recent quarter compared to 60.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 primarily due to variations in product mix. Operating expenses increased by $5.1 million in the recent quarter compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2016 due primarily to increased personnel-related expenses and amortization of intangible assets. 23 Table of Contents We ended the third quarter with $718.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $141.4 million during the recent nine-month period. Accounts receivable was $76.2 million at September 30, 2017, representing 35 days sales outstanding (DSO). Inventory was $72.9 million at September 30, 2017, representing 80 days of inventory (DOI). Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce new products and solutions with added functionality and further integration. On January 20, 2017, we acquired Zentri, Inc., an innovator in low-power, cloud-connected Wi-Fi technologies for the IoT. See Note 6, Acquisitions , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In the first nine months of fiscal 2017, we introduced high-performance, multi-channel jitter attenuating wireless clocks supporting 4G/LTE and Ethernet; high-performance clock generators offering a highly integrated timing solution for 10/25/100G applications; power-efficient Hall-effect magnetic sensors offering flexible I2C configuration and built-in tamper detection and temperature sensing; a scalable, flexible and cost-effective car radio solution for the global automotive infotainment market; new EFM32 Giant Gecko MCUs offering advanced capabilities and large memory options scaling up to 2 MB flash and 512 KB RAM; a wireless software stack, development tools and a mobile app supporting the new Bluetooth mesh specification; the Ultra Series family of crystal oscillators (XOs) delivering ultra-low jitter performance; EFR32xG13 Wireless Gecko SoCs supporting full Bluetooth 5 connectivity and more memory options; a USB-to-I2S bridge chip that provides a simple, turnkey solution for transferring digital audio data; new EFR32 Wireless Gecko SoCs supporting a broad range of multiprotocol, multiband use cases; EFM32 Gecko MCUs offering new security features, large memory options, higher peripheral integration and ultra-low power consumption; and an enhanced Micrium real-time operating system (RTOS) and new Platform Builder software to accelerate embedded design. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expand our total available market opportunity. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017, we had no customer that represented more than 10% of our revenues. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Three of our distributors, Edom Technology, Avnet and Arrow Electronics, each represented more than 10% of our revenues during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. There were no contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The percentage of our revenues derived from outside of the United States was 85% during the nine months ended September 30, 2017. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, set-top boxes, radios and wearables, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 24 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated predominately by sales of our products. A small portion of our revenues is derived from the sale of patents. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. The vast majority of our revenues were negotiated at prices that reflect a discount from the list prices for our products. These discounts are made for a variety of reasons, including: 1) to establish a relationship with a new customer, 2) as an incentive for customers to purchase products in larger volumes, 3) to provide profit margin to our distributors who resell our products or 4) in response to competition. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Our gross margin as a percentage of revenue fluctuates depending on product mix, manufacturing yields, inventory valuation adjustments, average selling prices and other factors. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as new product masks, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, legal fees and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income and Other, Net. Interest income and other, net reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, foreign currency remeasurement adjustments and other non-operating income and expenses. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations, including our convertible senior notes and credit facility. Interest expense on our convertible senior notes includes contractual interest, amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes. Provision for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable tax rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. 25 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 41.3 39.2 41.0 39.4 Gross margin 58.7 60.8 59.0 60.6 Operating expenses: Research and development 26.2 27.2 27.6 29.0 Selling, general and administrative 19.9 21.4 21.1 22.6 Operating expenses 46.1 48.6 48.7 51.6 Operating income 12.6 12.2 10.3 9.0 Other income (expense): Interest income and other, net 0.9 0.2 0.7 0.0 Interest expense (2.4 ) (0.4 ) (1.6 ) (0.4 ) Income before income taxes 11.1 12.0 9.4 8.6 Provision for income taxes 1.1 0.8 0.3 0.6 Net income 10.0 % 11.2 % 9.1 % 8.0 % Revenues Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change Internet of Things $ 99.9 $ 81.5 $ 18.4 22.6 % $ 285.5 $ 229.1 $ 56.4 24.6 % Broadcast 43.0 40.7 2.3 5.6 % 116.9 117.2 (0.3 ) (0.2 )% Infrastructure 38.9 38.4 0.5 1.4 % 113.1 110.6 2.5 2.2 % Access 16.9 17.5 (0.6 ) (3.4 )% 52.3 58.1 (5.8 ) (10.0 )% $ 198.7 $ 178.1 $ 20.6 11.6 % $ 567.8 $ 515.0 $ 52.8 10.3 % The change in revenues in the recent three month period was due primarily to: Increased revenues of $18.4 million for our IoT products, due primarily to increased demand for our wireless products. Increased revenues of $2.3 million for Broadcast products, due primarily to increased demand for our automotive and consumer products. Increased revenues of $0.5 million for our Infrastructure products, due primarily to increased demand for our isolation products offset by decreased demand for our timing products. Decreased revenues of $0.6 million for our Access products, due primarily to decreased demand for our VoIP products and decreases in the market for such products. The change in revenues in the recent nine month period was due primarily to: Increased revenues of $56.4 million for our IoT products, due primarily to increased demand for our wireless products. Decreased revenues of $0.3 million for Broadcast products, due primarily to decreases in the market for our consumer products offset by increased demand for our automotive products. Increased revenues of $2.5 million for our Infrastructure products, due primarily to increased demand for our isolation products offset by decreased demand for our timing products and decreased patent sale revenue of $5.0 million in the prior year nine month period with no patents sales in the current period. Decreased revenues of $5.8 million for our Access products, due primarily to decreased demand for our VoIP products and decreases in the market for such products. 26 Table of Contents Unit volumes of our products increased by 25.1% and average selling prices decreased by 11.1% compared to the three months ended October 1, 2016. Unit volumes of our products increased by 21.7% and average selling prices decreased by 8.8% compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2016. The average selling prices of our products may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to changes in product mix and other factors. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset some of these decreases. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change Gross margin $ 116.6 $ 108.2 $ 8.4 $ 334.9 $ 312.0 $ 22.9 Percent of revenue 58.7 % 60.8 % (2.1 )% 59.0 % 60.6 % (1.6 )% The increased dollar amount of gross margin in the recent three month period was due to increases in gross margin of $10.1 million for our IoT products, offset by decreases in gross margin of $0.9 million for our Broadcast products, $0.6 million for our Access products and $0.2 million for our Infrastructure products. The increased dollar amount of gross margin in the recent nine month period was due to increases in gross margin of $32.0 million for our IoT products, offset by decreases in gross margin of $5.0 million for our Access products, $4.0 million for our Broadcast products and $0.1 million for our Infrastructure products. Gross margin increased during the recent three and nine month periods due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin as a percent of revenues decreased during the recent three and nine month periods primarily due to variations in product mix. Gross margin in the prior year nine month period included $5.0 million from the sale of patents, which had no associated cost of revenues. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This creates downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues and may be offset to the extent we are able to: 1) introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our products; 2) reduce costs of existing products through improved design; 3) achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; 4) achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or 5) reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change Research and development $ 52.0 $ 48.4 $ 3.6 7.4 % $ 156.8 $ 149.1 $ 7.7 5.1 % Percent of revenue 26.2 % 27.2 % 27.6 % 29.0 % The increase in research and development expense in the recent three month period was primarily due to increases of $2.2 million for personnel-related expenses, including costs associated with increased headcount and acquisitions, and $0.9 million for the amortization of intangible assets. The increase in research and development expense in the recent nine month period was primarily due to an increase of $9.0 million for personnel-related expenses. The increase in research and development expense in the recent nine month period was offset in part by a decrease of $1.3 million for new product introduction costs. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues in the recent three and nine month periods was due to our increased revenues. We expect that research and development expense will remain relatively stable in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. 27 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 39.6 $ 38.0 $ 1.6 4.1 % $ 119.6 $ 116.7 $ 2.9 2.5 % Percent of revenue 19.9 % 21.4 % 21.1 % 22.6 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent three and nine month periods was primarily due to increases of $1.6 million and $2.9 million, respectively, for personnel-related expenses, including costs associated with increased headcount and acquisitions. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenues in the recent three and nine month periods was due to our increased revenues. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will decrease slightly in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $1.9 million and $4.1 million, respectively, compared to $0.3 million and $0.4 million for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2016, respectively. The increase in interest income and other, net in the recent three and nine month periods was primarily due to increased interest income earned as a result of higher market interest rates and higher cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $4.8 million and $9.3 million, respectively, compared to $0.6 million and $1.9 million for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2016, respectively. The increase in interest expense in the recent three and nine month periods was primarily due to increased interest expense of $4.4 million and $10.1 million, respectively, on our convertible debt, including amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs. The increase in interest expense in the recent nine month period was offset in part by a $2.0 million gain recorded in connection with the termination of our interest rate swap agreement. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change September 30, 2017 October 1, 2016 Change Provision for income taxes $ 2.2 $ 1.3 $ 0.9 $ 1.5 $ 3.3 $ (1.8 ) Effective tax rate 9.8 % 6.3 % 2.8 % 7.4 % The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 increased from the prior period primarily due to a decrease in the realization of the U.S. federal research and development as well as a decrease in the foreign tax rate benefit. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 decreased from the prior period primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 recognized in the current nine month period, partially offset by a decrease in the foreign tax rate benefit. The adoption of ASU 2016-09 resulted in a reduction to income tax expense of $0.2 million and $4.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. See Note 11, Income Taxes , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory tax rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 and other permanent items including research and development tax credits and nondeductible compensation expenses. 28 Table of Contents Business Outlook The following represents our business outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Income Statement Item Estimate Revenues $195 million to $201 million Gross margin 58.5% Operating expenses $91 million Effective tax rate 11.0% Diluted earnings per share $0.40 to $0.46 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of September 30, 2017 consisted of $718.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $543.6 million was held by our U.S. entities. The remaining balance was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of government debt securities, which include agency bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. government bonds, international government bonds, international agency commercial paper and variable-rate demand notes; corporate debt securities, which include asset-backed securities, corporate bonds, commercial paper and certificates of deposit; and money market funds. Our long-term investments consisted of auction-rate securities. As of September 30, 2017, we held $6.0 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions because sell orders exceeded buy orders. See Note 3, Fair Value of Financial Instruments , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $141.4 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to net cash provided of $106.6 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2016. Operating cash flows during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 reflect our net income of $51.9 million, adjustments of $65.9 million for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash inflow of $23.6 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable increased to $76.2 million at September 30, 2017 from $74.4 million at December 31, 2016. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from normal variations in the timing of collections and billings. Our average DSO was 35 days at September 30, 2017 and 37 days at December 31, 2016. Inventory increased to $72.9 million at September 30, 2017 from $59.6 million at December 31, 2016. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. Our DOI was 80 days at September 30, 2017 and 73 days at December 31, 2016. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $354.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to net cash used of $15.8 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2016. The increase in cash outflows was principally due to an increase of $325.9 million in net purchases of marketable securities and a net payment of $13.7 million for the acquisition of Zentri. See Note 6, Acquisitions , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $14 to $16 million for fiscal 2017. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. 29 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $308.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to net cash used of $56.7 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2016. The increase in cash inflows was principally due to $389.5 million in net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and a decrease of $40.5 million for repurchases of our common stock, offset by an increase of $67.5 million in payments on debt. See Note 7, Debt , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In January 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock through December 2017. In October 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock from January 2018 through December 2018. Our debt facilities include $400 million principal amount convertible senior notes (the Notes) and a $300 million revolving credit facility. On March 6, 2017, we completed a private offering of the Notes. The Notes bear interest semi-annually at a rate of 1.375% per year and will mature on March 1, 2022, unless repurchased, redeemed or converted at an earlier date. In connection with our offering of the Notes, we entered into a second amendment to our prior credit agreement and paid off the remaining balance of $72.5 million. We have an option to increase the size of the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facility by up to an aggregate of $200 million in additional commitments, subject to certain conditions. See Note 7, Debt , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of revenues on sales to distributors; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its manufacturing cost exceeds the estimated selling price less costs of completion, disposal and transportation. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. 30 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The fair value of our full-value stock awards (with the exception of market-based performance awards) equals the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The fair value of our market-based performance awards is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation. The fair value of our stock option and employee stock purchase plan grants is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 9, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the securitys amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Acquired intangible assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology and customer relationships. Fair value of these assets is determined primarily using the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their expected useful lives. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Incorrect estimates could result in future impairment charges, and those charges could be material to our results of operations. Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. 31 Table of Contents Income taxes We are required to calculate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves calculating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we are required to estimate the amount of expected future taxable income. Judgment is inherent in this process and differences between the estimated and actual taxable income could result in a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine whether the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition. Therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, they could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements which we believe may materially impact the judgments and uncertainties in the application of our accounting policies are described below. See Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) . The core principle of Topic 842 is that a lessee should recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. For operating leases, a lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We are evaluating the effect that the adoption of this ASU will have on our financial statements. We currently expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities upon our adoption of ASU 2016-02, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. 32 Table of Contents In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition . The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step process to achieve that core principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date , which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. In 2016, the FASB issued the following amendments to ASC 606: ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations; ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which clarifies guidance on identification of performance obligations and licensing implementation; ASU No. 2016-12, CompensationRevenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients , which provides clarifying guidance on assessing collectibility, presentation of sales taxes, noncash consideration, contract modifications and completed contracts; and ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which clarifies narrow aspects of ASC 606 or corrects unintended application of the guidance. The standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented (full retrospective method) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (modified retrospective method). Under the new standard, we expect the timing of revenue recognition from sales to distributors to be accelerated. We will recognize revenue at the time of sale to the distributor, net of the impact of estimated price adjustments and rights of return. As a result, revenue recognition is expected to be more directly impacted by shipments to distributors. We currently anticipate adopting this standard using the modified retrospective method. Under this method, incremental disclosures will be provided to present each financial statement line item for fiscal 2018 under the prior standard. We have completed an initial assessment of the new standard and are continuing to evaluate the effect that the adoption will have on our financial statements.