Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2018 will have 52 weeks and fiscal 2017 had 52 weeks. Our second quarter of fiscal 2018 ended June 30, 2018. Our second quarter of fiscal 2017 ended July 1, 2017. Overview We are a leading provider of silicon, software and solutions for a smarter, more connected world. Our award-winning technologies are shaping the future of the Internet of Things (IoT), Internet infrastructure, industrial automation, consumer and automotive markets. Our world-class engineering team creates products focused on performance, energy savings, connectivity and simplicity. Our primary semiconductor products are mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs), which are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs and software enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Internet of Things products, which include our microcontroller (MCU), wireless and sensor products; Broadcast products, which include our broadcast consumer and automotive products; Infrastructure products, which include our timing products (clocks and oscillators), and isolation devices; and Access products, which include our Voice over IP (VoIP) products, embedded modems and Power over Ethernet (PoE) devices. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, set-top boxes, radios and wearables, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 25 Table of Contents Current Period Highlights Revenues increased $27.0 million in the recent quarter compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017, primarily due to increased revenues from our IoT and Infrastructure products offset by decreased revenues from our Broadcast and Access products. Gross margin increased $18.1 million during the same period due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin as a percent of revenues increased to 60.5% in the recent quarter compared to 59.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to variations in product mix. Operating expenses increased by $21.0 million in the recent quarter compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 due primarily to increased personnel-related expenses, legal fees, amortization of intangible assets and new product introduction costs. Operating income in the recent quarter was $18.0 million compared to $20.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We ended the second quarter with $542.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $50.8 million during the recent six-month period. Accounts receivable was $93.8 million at June 30, 2018, representing 39 days sales outstanding (DSO). Inventory was $87.2 million at June 30, 2018, representing 91 days of inventory (DOI). Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce new products and solutions with added functionality and further integration. On April 18, 2018, we acquired the Z-Wave business of Sigma Designs, Inc. Z-Wave is an IoT technology for smart home solutions. See Note 6, Acquisitions , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In the first six months of fiscal 2018, we introduced timing solutions to meet the high-performance requirements of 56G/112G SerDes clocking applications; new multiprotocol software for our Wireless Gecko portfolio, enabling Bluetooth Low Energy (LE) connectivity with sub-GHz IoT devices; a proven reference design for ITU-T G.8262-compliant Synchronous Ethernet (SyncE) applications; a multiprotocol mesh networking solution for the IoT jointly created with Wirepas; low-power PCI Express (PCIe) Gen 4 clock buffers for 1.5 V and 1.8 V applications; two new Power over Ethernet (PoE) Powered Device (PD) families for a wide range of IoT applications; new Tiny Gecko MCUs that extend battery life for IoT connected devices; and a new Wi-Fi portfolio to simplify the design of power-sensitive, battery-operated Wi-Fi products. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expand our total available market opportunity. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we had no customer that represented more than 10% of our revenues. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Two of our distributors who sell to our customers, Arrow Electronics and Edom Technology, each represented more than 10% of our revenues during the six months ended June 30, 2018. There were no contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the six months ended June 30, 2018. During the first quarter of 2018, we consolidated our distribution relationships to a single global distributor, Arrow Electronics. We are maintaining our extensive network of regional distributor partners and etailers to complement our single global distributor partner. We anticipate this change to our distributor network will create greater efficiencies and contribute to both near and long-term revenue growth. We have also undertaken an initiative to increase our direct sales force in anticipation that this change will also drive future revenue growth. The percentage of our revenues derived from outside of the United States was 82% during the six months ended June 30, 2018. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated predominately by sales of our products. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Our gross margin as a percentage of revenue fluctuates depending on product mix, manufacturing yields, inventory valuation adjustments, average selling prices and other factors. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as new product masks, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, legal fees and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income and Other, Net. Interest income and other, net reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, foreign currency remeasurement adjustments and other non-operating income and expenses. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations, including our convertible senior notes and credit facility. Interest expense on our convertible senior notes includes contractual interest, amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. Provision (benefit) for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable tax rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. 27 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 39.5 40.5 39.5 40.8 Gross margin 60.5 59.5 60.5 59.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 27.4 27.6 27.1 28.4 Selling, general and administrative 24.8 20.9 23.5 21.7 Operating expenses 52.2 48.5 50.6 50.1 Operating income 8.3 11.0 9.9 9.1 Other income (expense): Interest income and other, net 0.8 0.8 1.1 0.6 Interest expense (2.3 ) (2.4 ) (2.3 ) (1.2 ) Income before income taxes 6.8 9.4 8.7 8.5 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.2 0.7 (0.9 ) (0.2 ) Net income 6.6 % 8.7 % 9.6 % 8.7 % Revenues Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change Internet of Things $ 116.0 $ 97.7 $ 18.3 18.7 % $ 219.1 $ 185.6 $ 33.5 18.1 % Infrastructure 51.5 38.2 13.3 34.8 % 100.9 74.2 26.7 36.0 % Broadcast 34.2 36.7 (2.5 ) (6.8 )% 70.3 74.0 (3.7 ) (5.1 )% Access 15.4 17.5 (2.1 ) (12.0 )% 32.2 35.3 (3.1 ) (9.0 )% $ 217.1 $ 190.1 $ 27.0 14.2 % $ 422.5 $ 369.1 $ 53.4 14.5 % The change in revenues in the recent three month period was due primarily to: Increased revenues of $18.3 million for our IoT products, due primarily to increased demand for our wireless products and the addition of revenues from acquisitions. Increased revenues of $13.3 million for our Infrastructure products, due primarily to increased demand for our isolation products and timing products. Decreased revenues of $2.5 million for Broadcast products, due primarily to decreases in the market for our consumer products and decreased demand for our automotive products. Decreased revenues of $2.1 million for our Access products, due primarily to decreased demand for our VoIP products and decreases in the market for such products. The change in revenues in the recent six month period was due primarily to: Increased revenues of $33.5 million for our IoT products, due primarily to increased demand for our wireless products and the addition of revenues from acquisitions. Increased revenues of $26.7 million for our Infrastructure products, due primarily to increased demand for our isolation products and timing products. Decreased revenues of $3.7 million for Broadcast products, due primarily to decreases in the market for our consumer products. Decreased revenues of $3.1 million for our Access products, due primarily to decreased demand for our VoIP products and decreases in the market for such products. 28 Table of Contents Unit volumes of our products increased by 16.9% and average selling prices decreased by 2.5% compared to the three months ended July 1, 2017. Unit volumes of our products increased by 16.9% and average selling prices decreased by 2.2% compared to the six months ended July 1, 2017. The average selling prices of our products may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to changes in product mix and other factors. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset some of these decreases. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change Gross margin $ 131.3 $ 113.2 $ 18.1 $ 255.5 $ 218.4 $ 37.1 Percent of revenue 60.5 % 59.5 % 1.0 % 60.5 % 59.2 % 1.3 % The increased dollar amount of gross margin in the recent three month period was due to increases in gross margin of $10.5 million for our Internet of Things products and $10.1 million for our Infrastructure products, offset by decreases in gross margin of $2.0 million for our Broadcast products and $0.5 million for our Access products. The increased dollar amount of gross margin in the recent six month period was due to increases in gross margin of $20.9 million for our Internet of Things products and $20.4 million for our Infrastructure products, offset by decreases in gross margin of $3.4 million for our Broadcast products and $0.8 million for our Access products. Gross margin increased during the recent three and six month periods due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin in the recent three and six month periods included $2.1 million in acquisition-related charges for the fair value write-up associated with acquired inventory. Gross margin as a percent of revenues increased during the recent three and six month periods primarily due to a higher mix of Infrastructure products sold in the recent periods. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This creates downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues and may be offset to the extent we are able to introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our products; reduce costs of existing products through improved design; achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change Research and development $ 59.5 $ 52.4 $ 7.1 13.5 % $ 114.3 $ 104.8 $ 9.5 9.1 % Percent of revenue 27.4 % 27.6 % 27.1 % 28.4 % The increase in research and development expense in the three and six month periods was primarily due to increases of $3.6 million and $6.2 million, respectively, for personnel-related expenses, including costs associated with increased headcount and acquisitions, $1.9 million and $1.8 million, respectively, for the amortization of intangible assets, and $0.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, for new product introduction costs. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues in the recent three and six month periods was due to our increased revenues. We expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 due to costs associated with increased headcount and costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Z-Wave business. 29 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 53.8 $ 39.8 $ 14.0 35.1 % $ 99.5 $ 80.0 $ 19.5 24.4 % Percent of revenue 24.8 % 20.9 % 23.5 % 21.7 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the three and six month periods was primarily due to increases of $6.8 million and $12.1 million, respectively, for personnel-related expenses, including costs associated with increased headcount and acquisitions, $3.6 million and $4.1 million, respectively, for legal fees, primarily related to acquisition-related costs, and $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively, for the amortization of intangible assets. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will decrease in absolute dollars in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $1.6 million and $4.8 million, respectively, compared to $1.6 million and $2.2 million for the three and six months ended July 1, 2017, respectively. The increase in interest income and other, net in the recent six month period was primarily due to increased interest income earned as a result of higher market interest rates and a gain of $1.0 million recorded in connection with a fair value adjustment to an equity investment. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $4.9 million and $9.8 million, respectively, compared to $4.7 million and $4.5 million for the three and six months ended July 1, 2017, respectively. The increase in interest expense in the recent six month period was primarily due to increased interest expense of $3.5 million on our convertible debt, including amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs, and a $2.0 million gain recorded in the prior six month period in connection with the termination of our interest rate swap agreement. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change June 30, 2018 July 1, 2017 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 0.4 $ 1.3 $ (0.9 ) $ (3.9 ) $ (0.7 ) $ (3.2 ) Effective tax rate 3.0 % 7.1 % (10.7 )% (2.3 )% We have generated a tax benefit in both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 primarily due to the recognition of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 decreased from the prior periods primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in the foreign tax rate benefit. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the U.S. federal statutory tax rates of 21% and 35%, respectively, due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be higher or lower than the federal statutory tax rate, as well as other permanent items including research and development tax credits, and the tax effects of stock-based compensation. 30 Table of Contents Business Outlook The following represents our business outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Income Statement Item Estimate Revenues $224 million to $230 million Gross margin 58.5% Operating expenses $111.0 million Effective tax rate * 0.0% Diluted earnings per share * $0.40 to $0.46 * Does not reflect any potential impact resulting from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuits decision on July 24, 2018 on the Altera Tax Court case involving the treatment of stock-based compensation in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this decision and such impact could be material to its financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of June 30, 2018 consisted of $542.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $418.4 million was held by our U.S. entities. The remaining balance was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of government debt securities, which include agency bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. government bonds, international government bonds, international agency commercial paper and variable-rate demand notes; corporate debt securities, which include asset-backed securities, corporate bonds, commercial paper and certificates of deposit; and money market funds. Our long-term investments consisted of auction-rate securities. As of June 30, 2018, we held $6.0 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions because sell orders exceeded buy orders. See Note 3, Fair Value of Financial Instruments , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $50.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to net cash provided of $80.6 million during the six months ended July 1, 2017. Operating cash flows during the six months ended June 30, 2018 reflect our net income of $40.7 million, adjustments of $50.8 million for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash outflow of $40.7 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable increased to $93.8 million at June 30, 2018 from $71.4 million at December 30, 2017. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from normal variations in the timing of collections and billings. Our average DSO was 39 days at June 30, 2018 and 32 days at December 30, 2017. Inventory increased to $87.2 million at June 30, 2018 from $73.1 million at December 30, 2017. A portion of the increase was due to inventory acquired from the Z-Wave business acquisition, which included a write-up adjustment to record the inventory at fair value. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. Our DOI was 91 days at June 30, 2018 and 81 days at December 30, 2017. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $110.0 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to net cash used of $320.8 million during the six months ended July 1, 2017. The decrease in cash outflows was principally due to a decrease of $443.9 million in net purchases of marketable securities, offset by an increase of $226.1 million in net payments for the acquisition of businesses. See Note 6, Acquisitions , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 31 Table of Contents We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $34 to $38 million for fiscal 2018. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $15.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to net cash provided of $309.7 million during the six months ended July 1, 2017. The decrease in cash inflows was principally due to $389.5 million in net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt during the six months ended July 1, 2017 , offset by a decrease of $72.5 million in payments on debt. In October 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $100 million of our common stock from January 2018 through December 2018. Our debt facilities include $400 million principal amount convertible senior notes (the Notes) and a $300 million revolving credit facility. On March 6, 2017, we completed a private offering of the Notes. The Notes bear interest semi-annually at a rate of 1.375% per year and will mature on March 1, 2022, unless repurchased, redeemed or converted at an earlier date. In connection with our offering of the Notes, we entered into a second amendment to our prior credit agreement and paid off the remaining balance of $72.5 million. We have an option to increase the size of the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facility by up to an aggregate of $200 million in additional commitments, subject to certain conditions. See Note 7, Debt , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its manufacturing cost exceeds the estimated selling price less costs of completion, disposal and transportation. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. 32 Table of Contents Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. Acquired intangible assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology and customer relationships. Fair value of these assets is determined primarily using the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their expected useful lives. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Incorrect estimates could result in future impairment charges, and those charges could be material to our results of operations. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the securitys amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Revenue recognition We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. In order to achieve this core principle, we apply a five-step process. As part of this process, we analyze the performance obligations in a customer contract and estimate the consideration we expect to receive. The evaluation of performance obligations requires that we identify the promised goods and services in the contract. For contracts that contain more than one promised good and service, we then must determine whether the promises are capable of being distinct and if they are separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Additionally, for our sales to distributors, we must estimate the impact that price adjustments and rights of return will have on consideration. We make these estimates based on available information, including recent sales activity and pricing data. If our evaluation of performance obligations is incorrect, we may recognize revenue sooner or later than is appropriate. If our estimates of consideration are inaccurate, we may recognize too much or too little revenue in a period. 33 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The fair value of our full-value stock awards (with the exception of market-based performance awards) equals the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The fair value of our market-based performance awards is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation. The fair value of our stock option and employee stock purchase plan grants is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 11, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income taxes We are required to calculate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves calculating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we are required to estimate the amount of expected future taxable income. Judgment is inherent in this process and differences between the estimated and actual taxable income could result in a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine whether the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition. Therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, they could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements which we believe may materially impact the judgments and uncertainties in the application of our accounting policies are described below. See Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) . The core principle of Topic 842 is that a lessee should recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. For operating leases, a lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We are evaluating the effect that the adoption of this ASU will have on our financial statements. We currently expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities upon our adoption of ASU 2016-02, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. 34 Table of Contents