Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," our Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to those statements included in this Form 10-K. Consolidated Statements of Income Data Revenues $ 493,341 $ 441,020 $ 415,630 $ 337,461 $ 288,156 Operating income 86,671 66,511 43,656 (3) 23,097 6,052 Income from continuing operations 73,242 73,092 (2) 32,935 (3) 39,687 15,343 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 165,149 (5) 15,815 Net income $ 73,242 $ 73,092 (2) $ 32,935 (3) $ 204,836 (5) $ 31,158 Income from continuing operations per share: Basic $ 1.63 $ 1.62 $ 0.68 $ 0.72 $ 0.28 Diluted $ 1.57 $ 1.57 $ 0.67 $ 0.70 $ 0.27 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 383,362 (1) $ 434,899 $ 325,360 (4) $ 572,974 (6) $ 386,292 Working capital 414,073 (1) 435,359 289,716 (4) 599,300 (6) 402,085 Total assets 727,658 (1) 742,838 624,245 (4) 840,246 (6) 686,995 Long-term obligations 22,372 24,403 48,789 43,309 16,691 Total stockholders' equity 625,430 (1) 629,796 502,460 (4) 703,545 568,682 (1) Reflects repurchases of our common stock in fiscal 2010. (2) Includes a benefit related to the resolution of prior year uncertain tax benefits. (3) Includes a charge for in-process research and development costs in connection with our acquisition of Integration Associates. (4) Reflects repurchases of our common stock in fiscal 2008. (5) Includes a gain on the sale of our Aero product lines, net of related income taxes. (6) Includes proceeds from the sale of our Aero product lines, less repurchases of our common stock in fiscal 2007. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the "Cautionary Statement" and "Risk Factors" above for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53- week year ending on the Saturday closest to December 31st. Fiscal 2010 and 2009 were 52-week years and ended on January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. Fiscal year 2008 was a 53-week year with the extra week occurring in the first quarter and ended on January 3, 2009. 29 Table of Contents Overview We design and develop proprietary, analog-intensive, mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of applications. Mixed-signal ICs are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components in a broad range of applications in a variety of markets, including communications, consumer, industrial, automotive, medical and power management. Our major customers include Apple, Cisco, Huawei, LG Electronics, Nokia, Pace (formerly Philips), Panasonic, Samsung, Technicolor (formerly Thomson) and Varian Medical Systems. As a "fabless" semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third-parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Broad-based products, which include our microcontrollers, timing products (clocks and oscillators), wireless receivers, isolation devices and human interface sensors; Broadcast products, which include our broadcast audio and video products; Access products, which include our embedded modems, Voice over IP (VoIP) products and our Power over Ethernet devices; and Mature products, which include certain devices that are at the end of their respective life cycles and therefore receive minimal or no continued research and development investment, including our DSL analog front end ICs and IRDA devices. Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce next generation ICs with added functionality and further integration. In April 2010, we acquired Silicon Clocks, Inc., a privately held company that designed and developed microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology to enable the manufacture of silicon resonators and sensors directly on standard CMOS wafers. The acquired technology is aligned with our efforts to leverage our CMOS-based timing products into high-volume applications such as consumer electronics. In October 2010, we acquired ChipSensors Ltd, a privately held company that created innovative single-chip CMOS sensors designed to detect temperature, humidity and gases. In fiscal 2010, we introduced a bridge chip family that simplifies the addition of USB and touch sense connectivity in embedded designs, the expansion of our automotive portfolio with a family of highly integrated AM/FM tuners for car stereos, frequency flexible in-circuit programmable CMOS clock generators, isolated gate drivers designed for high-power Class D audio systems, power management ICs that improve efficiency in Power over Ethernet (PoE) equipment, a Class D amplifier ideal for many portable radios and docking stations, a wireless IC solution designed to be a remote control on a chip, low power capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers, digital isolators and isolated gate drivers designed to replace traditional optocouplers, a digital TV demodulator that combines satellite, terrestrial and cable digital video broadcast (DVB) functions in one highly integrated device, a frequency-flexible timing IC solution for networking and telecommunications applications, a family of ultra-low-power wireless microcontrollers ideal for battery-powered systems and a highly integrated AM/FM receiver for analog tuned radios. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the 30 Table of Contents content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expanding our total available market opportunity. We had no customers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2010 or 2008. During fiscal 2009, we had one customer, Samsung, whose purchases across a variety of product areas represented 16% of our total revenues. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Two of our distributors, Edom Technology and Avnet, represented 28% and 14% of our revenues during fiscal 2010, and 27% and 10% of our revenues during fiscal 2009, respectively. Edom represented 31% of our revenues during fiscal 2008. There were no other distributors or contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008. The percentage of our revenues derived from customers located outside of the United States was 86% in fiscal 2010 and 88% in fiscal 2009 and 2008. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, personal video recorders, set-top boxes, portable navigation devices and mobile handsets, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated almost exclusively by sales of our ICs. We recognize revenue on sales when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Generally, we recognize revenue from product sales to direct customers and contract manufacturers upon shipment. Certain of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing certain rights of return and price protection on products unsold by distributors. Accordingly, we defer the revenue and cost of revenue on such sales until the distributors sell the product to the end customer. Our products typically carry a one-year replacement warranty. Replacements have been insignificant to date. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. The vast majority of our revenues were negotiated at prices that reflect a discount from the list prices 31 Table of Contents for our products. These discounts are made for a variety of reasons, including: 1) to establish a relationship with a new customer, 2) as an incentive for customers to purchase products in larger volumes, 3) to provide profit margin to our distributors who resell our products or 4) in response to competition. In addition, as a product matures, we expect that the average selling price for such product will decline due to the greater availability of competing products. Our ability to increase revenues in the future is dependent on increased demand for our established products and our ability to ship larger volumes of those products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties and amortization of purchased software, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; an allocated portion of our occupancy costs; and allocable depreciation of testing equipment and leasehold improvements. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, new product mask, wafer, packaging and test costs, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs for such operations. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, related allocable portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, legal fees and promotional and marketing expenses. In-Process Research and Development. In-process research and development (IPR&D) represents acquired technology resulting from business combinations that had not achieved technological feasibility as of the acquisition closing date and had no alternative future use. For acquisitions occurring prior to fiscal 2009, these costs were expensed on the date of acquisition. Beginning in fiscal 2009, IPR&D is capitalized until the related projects are completed, at which time they begin to be amortized. IPR&D is written-off if the related projects are abandoned. Interest Income. Interest income reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency remeasurement adjustments as well as other non-operating income and expenses. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. Provision (benefit) for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable statutory rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. 32 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 34.3 36.6 38.5 Gross margin 65.7 63.4 61.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 25.1 23.7 24.3 Selling, general and administrative 23.0 24.7 24.2 In-process research and development 2.5 Operating expenses 48.1 48.4 51.0 Operating income 17.6 15.0 10.5 Other income (expense): Interest income 0.4 0.7 2.5 Interest expense 0.0 0.0 (0.1 ) Other income (expense), net (0.3 ) 0.0 (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 17.7 15.7 12.8 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2.9 (0.9 ) 4.9 Net income 14.8 % 16.6 % 7.9 % Comparison of Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009 Revenues Revenues $ 493.3 $ 441.0 $ 52.3 11.9 % The growth in revenues in fiscal 2010 was due primarily to improvements in the health of our products' end markets and increases in market share. Unit volumes of our products increased compared to fiscal 2009 by 2.8%. Average selling prices increased during the same period by 9.3%. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset some of these decreases. Gross Margin Gross margin $ 324.2 $ 279.8 $ 44.4 15.9 % Percent of revenue 65.7 % 63.4 % The increase in the dollar amount of gross margin in fiscal 2010 was primarily due to our increased sales. The increase in gross margin as a percent of revenue in fiscal 2010 was primarily due to changes in product mix, improvements in our inventory management and manufacturing cost 33 Table of Contents reductions. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This creates downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues and may be offset to the extent we are able to: 1) introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our ICs; 2) achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; 3) achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or 4) reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Research and development $ 123.8 $ 104.4 $ 19.4 18.6 % Percent of revenue 25.1 % 23.7 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2010 was principally due to an increase of $15.0 million for personnel-related expenses. We expect that research and development expense will continue to increase in absolute dollars in the first quarter of 2011. Recent development projects include a bridge chip family that simplifies the addition of USB and touch sense connectivity in embedded designs, the expansion of our automotive portfolio with a family of highly integrated AM/FM tuners for car stereos, frequency flexible in-circuit programmable CMOS clock generators, isolated gate drivers designed for high-power Class D audio systems, power management ICs that improve efficiency in PoE equipment, a Class D amplifier ideal for many portable radios and docking stations, a wireless IC solution designed to be a remote control on a chip, low power capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers, digital isolators and isolated gate drivers designed to replace traditional optocouplers, a digital TV demodulator that combines satellite, terrestrial and cable DVB functions in one highly integrated device, a frequency-flexible timing IC solution for networking and telecommunications applications, a family of ultra-low-power wireless microcontrollers ideal for battery-powered systems and a highly integrated AM/FM receiver for analog tuned radios. In-Process Research and Development In connection with the purchase of Silicon Clocks, we acquired certain in-process research and development (IPR&D) assets. These costs were capitalized until the related projects are completed, at which time they begin to be amortized. IPR&D is written-off if the related projects are abandoned. The fair value of each project was determined using the income approach. The discount rate applicable to the cash flows was 19.0%. This rate reflects the weighted-average cost of capital and the risks inherent in the development process. The IPR&D recorded in connection with the acquisition consisted of the following (in thousands): Resonator $ 5,200 Clocks 4,270 $ 9,470 We are developing the IPR&D projects using MEMS technology. The remaining research and development efforts include additional design, integration and testing. As of the acquisition date, we projected the costs to complete the projects to be $8.1 million. Such costs have been consistent with our assumptions at the time of the acquisition. The significant risks associated with the successful completion of these projects include our potential inability to finish the product designs, produce 34 Table of Contents working models and gain customer acceptance. Failure to complete these projects in a timely manner could result in lost revenues. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative $ 113.8 $ 108.8 $ 5.0 4.5 % Percent of revenue 23.0 % 24.7 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2010 was principally due to an increase of $2.1 million for legal fees, primarily related to acquisition-related costs and litigation. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenues in fiscal 2010 is due to our increased sales. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars in the first quarter of 2011. Interest Income Interest income $ 2.3 $ 2.7 $ (0.4 ) The decrease in interest income in fiscal 2010 was largely due to lower interest rates on the underlying instruments, partially offset by a higher average investment balance. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2010 was $0.1 million compared to $0.2 million in fiscal 2009. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net in fiscal 2010 was $(1.3) million compared to $(0.1) million in fiscal 2009. The change was primarily due to foreign currency remeasurement adjustments. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 14.4 $ (4.1 ) $ 18.5 Effective tax rate 16.4 % (6.0 )% The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 increased from the prior period, primarily due to the resolution of uncertain tax positions as a result of entering into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 increased from the prior period due to the intercompany license of certain technology obtained in the acquisition of Silicon Clocks during the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in the effective tax rate was partially offset by an increase in the federal research and development credit in fiscal 2010. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than 35 Table of Contents the federal statutory rate, research and development tax credits and other permanent items including changes to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Comparison of Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008 Revenues Revenues $ 441.0 $ 415.6 $ 25.4 6.1 % The growth in revenues in fiscal 2009 was driven primarily by market share gains. Increased unit volumes outpaced declines in average selling prices. Unit volumes of our products increased compared to fiscal 2008 by 19.6%. Average selling prices decreased during the same period by 10.8%. Gross Margin Gross margin $ 279.8 $ 255.8 $ 24.0 9.4 % Percent of revenue 63.4 % 61.5 % The increase in the dollar amount of gross margin in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to our increased sales. The increase in gross margin as a percent of revenue in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a charge of $2.2 million to record inventory acquired from Integration Associates at fair value during fiscal 2008, improvements in our inventory management and manufacturing cost reductions. Research and Development Research and development $ 104.4 $ 101.2 $ 3.2 3.2 % Percent of revenue 23.7 % 24.3 % The increase in research and development expense in fiscal 2009 was principally due to an increase of $3.7 million for personnel-related expenses, including personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Integration Associates. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues is due to our increased sales. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative $ 108.8 $ 100.7 $ 8.1 8.1 % Percent of revenue 24.7 % 24.2 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in fiscal 2009 was principally due to an increase of $8.7 million for personnel-related expenses, including personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Integration Associates. 36 Table of Contents In-Process Research and Development In-process research and development (IPR&D) recorded in connection with the acquisition of Integration Associates was $10.3 million in fiscal 2008. The IPR&D projects included optoelectronic, power, and radio transmitter and transceiver technologies. The optoelectronic projects are used for infrared data communications and proximity sensing. The power projects enable AC-DC conversion in power supply systems. The radio transmitters and transceivers projects enable the delivery of data over proprietary, short range wireless links. The fair value of each project was determined using the income approach. The discount rate applicable to the cash flows was 20%. This rate reflects the weighted-average cost of capital and the risks inherent in the development process. There was no acquisition of IPR&D in fiscal 2009. Interest Income Interest income $ 2.7 $ 10.4 $ (7.7 ) The decrease in interest income for the recent period was due to lower interest rates on the underlying instruments and lower average cash and investment balances. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2009 was $0.2 million compared to $0.4 million in fiscal 2008. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net in fiscal 2009 was $(0.1) million compared to $(0.6) million in fiscal 2008. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (4.1 ) $ 20.2 $ (24.3 ) Effective tax rate (6.0 )% 38.0 % The effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 decreased from the prior period, primarily due to resolution of uncertain tax positions as a result of entering into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 decreased from the prior period due to the intercompany license of certain technology and the non-deductible write-off of in-process research and development costs during fiscal 2008, both of which were related to the acquisition of Integration Associates. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, the limited deductibility of stock compensation expense and other permanent items including changes to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. 37 Table of Contents Business Outlook We expect revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $116 to $122 million. Furthermore, we expect our diluted earnings per share, exclusive of expected charges related to the January 2011 acquisition of Spectra Linear, to be in the range of $0.14 to $0.20. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of January 1, 2011 consisted of $365.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consist primarily of corporate bonds, U.S. Treasury bills, money market funds, variable-rate demand notes, municipal bonds, U.S. government agency bonds and discount notes, international government bonds, certificates of deposit and commercial paper. Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities. Early in fiscal 2008, auctions for many of our auction-rate securities failed because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As of January 1, 2011, we held $19.7 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions. The securities had previously been valued using quoted prices in active markets. When the auctions began to fail, quoted prices for the securities were no longer observable. As such, we changed our fair value measurement methodology for all auction-rate securities from quoted prices in active markets to a cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. The underlying assets of our auction-rate securities consisted of student loans and municipal bonds, of which $17.7 million were guaranteed by the U.S. government and the remaining $2.0 million were privately insured. As of January 1, 2011, $17.7 million of the auction-rate securities had credit ratings of AAA and $2.0 million had credit ratings of A. These securities had contractual maturity dates ranging from 2029 to 2046 and were yielding 0.6% to 3.3% per year at January 1, 2011. We are receiving the underlying cash flows on all of our auction-rate securities. The principal amounts associated with failed auctions are not expected to be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the security, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities mature. We are unable to predict if these funds will become available before their maturity dates. We do not expect to need access to the capital represented by any of our auction-rate securities prior to their maturities. We do not intend to sell, and we believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell, our auction-rate securities before their anticipated recovery in market value or final settlement at the underlying par value. Net cash provided by operating activities was $117.9 million during fiscal 2010, compared to net cash provided of $120.9 million during fiscal 2009. Operating cash flows during fiscal 2010 reflect our net income of $73.2 million, adjustments of $60.0 million for depreciation, amortization, stock compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash outflow of $15.3 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable decreased to $45.0 million at January 1, 2011 from $56.1 million at January 2, 2010. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from a decrease in shipments during the last quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the last quarter of the prior year. Our average days sales outstanding (DSO) was 36 days at January 1, 2011 and 40 days at January 2, 2010. Inventory increased to $39.4 million at January 1, 2011 from $31.5 million at January 2, 2010. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. The increase in inventory over the prior year resulted primarily from actual demand falling short of our forecasted demand. Our average days of inventory (DOI) was 87 days at January 1, 2011 and 65 days at January 2, 2010. 38 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $55.2 million during fiscal 2010, compared to net cash used of $104.3 million during fiscal 2009. The decrease was principally due to a decrease of $79.7 million in net outflows for purchases of investments, offset by an increase in net payments of $23.7 million for the acquisition of businesses. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $15 to $20 million for fiscal 2011. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. On January 25, 2011, we acquired Spectra Linear, a privately held company, for approximately $40 million in cash, subject to certain working capital adjustments, plus potential additional consideration of up to $10 million tied to the revenue of the acquired products exceeding $16 million during 2011. Net cash used in financing activities was $119.9 million during fiscal 2010, compared to net cash provided of $6.9 million during fiscal 2009. The decrease in cash flows was principally due to an increase of $120.2 million for repurchases of our common stock. In July 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $150 million of our common stock prior to the end of 2011. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of January 1, 2011 (in thousands): Operating lease obligations(1) $ 26,123 $ 7,676 $ 7,542 $ 3,423 $ 1,522 $ 1,475 $ 4,485 Purchase obligations(2) 38,506 38,475 31 Other long-term obligations(3) 2,464 2,100 100 264 (1) Operating lease obligations include amounts for leased facilities. (2) Purchase obligations include contractual arrangements in the form of purchase orders with suppliers where there is a fixed non-cancelable payment schedule or minimum payments due with a reduced delivery schedule. (3) We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to when or if cash settlement with taxing authorities will occur for our unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, our liability of $10.8 million for unrecognized tax benefits is not included in the table above. See Note 15, Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash and investment balances are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In March 2006, we entered into an operating lease agreement and a related participation agreement for a facility at 400 W. Cesar Chavez ("400 WCC") in Austin, Texas for our corporate headquarters. The lease has a term of seven years. The base rent for the term of the lease is an amount equal to the interest accruing on $44.3 million at 110 basis points over the three-month LIBOR 39 Table of Contents (which would be approximately $1.4 million over the remaining term assuming LIBOR averages 0.30% during such term). In March 2008, we entered into an operating lease agreement and a related participation agreement for a facility at 200 W. Cesar Chavez ("200 WCC") in Austin, Texas for the expansion of our corporate headquarters. The lease has a term of five years. The base rent for the term of the lease is an amount equal to the interest accruing on $50.1 million at 155 basis points over the three-month LIBOR (which would be approximately $2.1 million over the remaining term assuming LIBOR averages 0.30% during such term). We have granted certain rights and remedies to the lessors in the event of certain defaults, including the right to terminate the leases, to bring suit to collect damages, and to compel us to purchase the facilities. The leases contain other customary representations, warranties, obligations, conditions, indemnification provisions and termination provisions, including covenants that we shall maintain unencumbered cash and highly-rated short-term investments of at least $75 million. If our unencumbered cash and highly-rated short-term investments are less than $150 million, we must also maintain a ratio of funded debt to earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, lease expense and other non-cash charges (EBITDAR) over the four prior fiscal quarters of no greater than 2 to 1. As of January 1, 2011, we believe we were in compliance with all covenants of the leases. During the terms of the leases, we have on-going options to purchase the buildings for purchase prices of approximately $44.3 million for 400 WCC and $50.1 million for 200 WCC. Alternatively, we can cause each such property to be sold to third parties provided we are not in default under that property's lease. We are contingently liable on a first dollar loss basis for up to $35.3 million to the extent that the 400 WCC sale proceeds are less than the $44.3 million purchase option and up to $40.0 million to the extent that the 200 WCC sale proceeds are less than the $50.1 million purchase option. We determined that the fair value associated with the guaranteed residual values was $1.0 million for 400 WCC and $1.2 million for 200 WCC, as of the inception of the leases. These amounts were recorded in "Other assets, net" and "Long-term obligations and other liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are being amortized over the term of the leases. We are required to periodically evaluate the expected fair value of each facility at the end of the lease terms. If we determine that it is estimable and probable that the expected fair values will be less than $44.3 million for 400 WCC and $50.1 million for 200 WCC, we will ratably accrue the loss up to a maximum of approximately $35.3 million and $40.0 million, respectively, over the remaining lease terms as additional rent expense. As of January 1, 2011, we do not believe that a loss contingency accrual is required for either property. However, a prolonged economic downturn could increase the likelihood of such a loss accrual. In connection with our headquarters leases, during fiscal 2008 we entered into interest rate swap agreements as a hedge against the variable rent under the leases. Under the terms of the swap agreements, we have effectively converted the variable rents to fixed rents through March 2011 for 400 WCC and March 2013 for 200 WCC. See Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting 40 Table of Contents policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of revenues on sales to distributors; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its standard cost exceeds the estimated market value. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Stock-based compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The fair value of our stock-based awards is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes valuation calculation requires us to estimate key assumptions such as future stock price volatility, expected terms, risk-free rates and dividend yield. Expected stock price volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on our stock in the marketplace and historical volatility of our stock. The expected term of options granted is derived from an analysis of historical exercises and remaining contractual life of stock options, and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. We have never paid cash dividends, and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and thus have assumed a 0% dividend yield. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 12, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the security's amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, 41 Table of Contents the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Acquired intangible assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology and customer relationships. Fair value of these assets is determined primarily using the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their expected useful lives. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Incorrect estimates could result in future impairment charges, and those charges could be material to our results of operations. Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. Income taxes We are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We then assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition; therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. 42 Table of Contents Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, it could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-29, Business Combinations (Topic 805)Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations . This ASU addresses diversity in practice about the interpretation of the pro forma revenue and earnings disclosure requirements for business combinations. The ASU clarifies that when presenting comparative financial statements, an entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The ASU also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. ASU 2010-29 is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. In January 2010, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements . This ASU requires new disclosures about significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 fair value measurements. The ASU also clarifies existing disclosure requirements regarding inputs and valuation techniques, as well as the level of disaggregation for each class of assets and liabilities for which separate fair value measurements should be disclosed. We adopted ASU 2010-06 at the beginning of fiscal 2010, except for the separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements, which is effective for us at the beginning of fiscal 2011. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact, and the deferred provisions of this ASU are not expected to have a material impact, on our financial statements.