Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2021 will have 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 had 53 weeks with the extra week occurring in the first quarter of the year. Our third quarter of fiscal 2021 ended October 2, 2021. Our third quarter of fiscal 2020 ended October 3, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 A new strain of novel coronavirus which causes a severe respiratory disease (COVID-19) was identified in 2019, and subsequently declared a worldwide pandemic by the World Health Organization. We implemented a response plan and continued operations while largely transitioning our global workforce to a remote work model. The third parties that perform our semiconductor manufacturing, assembly, packaging and testing have generally remained operational. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity and spread of the pandemic, related restrictions on travel and transportation and other actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, the impact to the business of our suppliers or customers, and other items identified under Risk Factors below, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption could materially affect our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition. Overview We are a leading provider of silicon, software and solutions for a smarter, more connected world. Our award-winning technologies are shaping the future of the Internet of Things (IoT), industrial automation and consumer markets. Our world-class engineering team creates products focused on performance, energy savings, connectivity and simplicity. Our primary semiconductor products are mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs), which are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs and software enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. Our Internet of Things products include wireless connectivity, microcontroller (MCU) and sensor products. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because some of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 21 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations On April 22, 2021, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement pursuant to which Skyworks Solutions agreed to acquire certain assets, rights, and properties, and assume certain liabilities, comprising our infrastructure and automotive business for $2.75 billion in cash. The sale was completed pursuant to the terms of the Agreement on July 26, 2021. The results of operations of the sold component have been presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. Current Period Highlights of Continuing Operations Revenues increased $52.1 million in the recent quarter compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2020 primarily due to increased demand for our products. Gross profit increased $34.0 million during the same period due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin increased to 59.2% in the recent quarter compared to 56.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 due primarily to variations in product mix. Operating expenses increased by $19.7 million in the recent quarter compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2020 due primarily to increased personnel-related expenses and new product introduction costs. Operating loss in the recent quarter was $9.3 million compared to $23.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. We ended the third quarter with $2.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.2 million during the recent nine-month period. Accounts receivable were $72.6 million at October 2, 2021, representing 35 days sales outstanding (DSO). Inventory was $59.1 million at October 2, 2021, representing 71 days of inventory (DOI). In the third quarter, we completed a tender offer in which we repurchased 4.0 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate cost of $640.7 million. Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our portfolio and introduce new products and solutions with added functionality and integration. In the first nine months of fiscal 2021, we introduced Custom Part Manufacturing Service (CPMS) to support IoT companies with the implementation of Zero Trust security architectures to meet emerging cybersecurity standards; the Unify Software Development Kit (SDK), which provides the common building blocks for connectivity across IoT ecosystems; new sub-1-GHz SoCs delivering wireless solutions that combine long-range RF and energy efficiency with certified Arm PSA Level 3 security; a fully integrated, certified Wi-SUN solution simplifying Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) deployment for smart cities; wireless solutions for development of Matter end products that support Thread, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth protocols; and a new 32-bit MCU on our award-winning xG22 platform for IoT edge applications. We plan to continue introducing products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expand our total available market opportunity. During the nine months ended October 2, 2021, we had no customer that represented more than 10% of our revenues. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Three of our distributors who sell to our customers, Arrow Electronics, Edom Technology and Sekorm, each represented more than 10% of our revenues during the nine months ended October 2, 2021. The percentage of our revenues derived from outside of the United States was 87% during the nine months ended October 2, 2021. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated predominately by sales of our products. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. 22 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Our gross margin fluctuates depending on product mix, manufacturing yields, inventory valuation adjustments, average selling prices and other factors. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as new product masks, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of intangible assets and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, amortization of intangible assets, professional fees, legal fees, and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income and Other, Net. Interest income and other, net reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, foreign currency remeasurement adjustments, income or loss on equity method investments, and other non-operating income and expenses. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations, including our convertible senior notes and credit facility. Interest expense on our convertible senior notes includes contractual interest, amortization of the debt discount and amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. Provision (benefit) for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable tax rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 40.8 43.1 41.9 42.2 Gross margin 59.2 56.9 58.1 57.8 Operating expenses: Research and development 39.3 44.4 39.3 47.8 Selling, general and administrative 24.9 30.3 25.7 34.3 Operating expenses 64.2 74.7 65.0 82.1 Operating loss (5.0) (17.8) (6.9) (24.3) Other income (expense): Interest income and other, net 3.0 1.6 1.7 2.3 Interest expense (3.5) (6.5) (4.8) (7.1) Loss from continuing operations before income taxes (5.5) (22.7) (10.0) (29.1) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 5.1 (2.6) 2.4 (3.3) Loss from continuing operations (10.6) (20.1) (12.4) (25.8) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 1,139.8 22.5 426.4 26.8 Net income 1,129.2 % 2.4 % 414.0 % 1.0 % 23 Table of Contents Revenues Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, % October 2, October 3, % (in millions) 2021 2020 Change Change 2021 2020 Change Change Revenues $ 184.8 $ 132.7 $ 52.1 39.3 % $ 512.2 $ 365.1 $ 147.1 40.3 % The change in revenues in the recent three and nine month periods was due to increased demand for our IoT products. Unit volumes of our products increased by 31.9% during the three months ended October 2, 2021 while average selling prices increased by 4.8% compared to the three months ended October 3, 2020. Unit volumes of our products increased by 40.9% during the three months ended October 2, 2021 while average selling prices decreased by 0.2% compared to the nine months ended October 3, 2020. The average selling prices of our products may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to changes in product mix, pricing decisions and other factors. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. Gross Profit Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, (in millions) 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Gross profit $ 109.5 $ 75.5 $ 34.0 $ 297.6 $ 210.9 $ 86.7 Gross margin 59.2 % 56.9 % 2.3 % 58.1 % 57.8 % 0.3 % Gross profit increased during the recent three and nine month periods due primarily to increased product sales. Gross margin increased during the recent three-month period primarily due to variations in product mix. We may experience variation in the average selling prices of certain of our products. Declines in average selling prices create downward pressure on gross margin and may be offset to the extent we are able to introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our products; reduce costs of existing products through improved design; achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, % October 2, October 3, % (in millions) 2021 2020 Change Change 2021 2020 Change Change Research and development $ 72.7 $ 58.9 $ 13.8 23.3 % $ 201.5 $ 174.6 $ 26.9 15.4 % Percent of revenue 39.3 % 44.4 % 39.3 % 47.8 % The increase in research and development expense in the recent three-month period was primarily due to an increase of $7.8 million for personnel-related expenses and $4.7 million for new product development costs. The increase in research and development expense in the recent nine-month period was primarily due to an increase of $13.3 million for personnel-related expenses, $8.9 million for new product development costs and $1.4 million for the amortization of intangible assets. We expect that research and development expense will remain relatively stable in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, % October 2, October 3, % (in millions) 2021 2020 Change Change 2021 2020 Change Change Selling, general and administrative $ 46.1 $ 40.2 $ 5.9 14.9 % $ 131.5 $ 125.0 $ 6.5 5.3 % Percent of revenue 24.9 % 30.3 % 25.7 % 34.3 % 24 Table of Contents The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent three-month period was primarily due to an increase of $5.3 million for personnel-related expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent nine-month period was primarily due to an increase of $7.8 million for personnel-related expenses offset in part by a decrease of $1.5 million in acquisition-related costs. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will increase in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2021 was $5.5 million and $9.0 million, respectively, compared to $2.0 million and $8.6 million for the three and nine months ended October 3, 2020, respectively. The increase in interest income and other, net in the recent three month period was primarily due to increased income earned in connection with an equity investment. Interest Expense Interest expense was generally consistent for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2021 and was $6.6 million and $24.4 million, respectively, compared to $8.6 million and $25.9 million for the three and nine months ended October 3, 2020, respectively. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, (in millions) 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 9.4 $ (3.5) $ 12.9 $ 12.5 $ (11.9) $ 24.4 Effective tax rate (90.7) % 11.5 % (24.7) % 11.2 % The increase in the provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2021 as compared to the prior periods was primarily due to the reallocation of income tax benefit from continuing operations to discontinued operations under ASU 2019-12 and an increase in the beginning of year valuation allowance on state attribute carryforwards as a result of changes in state tax estimates primarily due to the divestiture of the infrastructure and automotive business to Skyworks Solutions. Additionally, an estimated tax on the gain from the divestiture of the infrastructure and automotive business to Skyworks Solutions of $346.9 million was recorded in discontinued operations for the period, as well as additional tax benefit associated with discontinued operations of $(13.7) million for the three-month period ended October 2, 2021. Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 2, October 3, October 2, October 3, (in millions) 2021 2020 Change 2021 2020 Change Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ 2,106.8 $ 29.9 $ 2,076.9 $ 2,183.9 $ 97.7 $ 2,086.2 The increase in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the recent three and nine month periods was primarily due to a gain on sale of $2.1 billion, net of tax, in the current periods. See Note 2, Discontinued Operations , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 25 Table of Contents Business Outlook The following represents our business outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Income Statement Item Estimate Revenues $195 million to $205 million Gross margin 59.0% Operating expenses $126 million Effective tax rate (14)% Diluted earnings (loss) per share $(0.41) to $(0.31) Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of October 2, 2021 consisted of $2.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $1.3 billion was held by our U.S. entities. The remaining balance was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of government debt securities, which include agency bonds, municipal bonds, variable-rate demand notes, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. government securities; corporate debt securities, which include asset-backed securities, corporate bonds, certificates of deposit and commercial paper; and money market funds. Our long-term investments consisted of auction-rate securities. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.2 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2021, compared to net cash provided of $20.4 million during the nine months ended October 3, 2020. Operating cash flows during the nine months ended October 2, 2021 reflect our net income of $2.1 billion, adjustments of $2.1 billion for income from discontinued operations, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash outflow of $10.3 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable decreased to $72.6 million at October 2, 2021 from $95.2 million at January 2, 2021. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from lower billings as a result of the divestiture of our infrastructure and automotive business as well as normal variations in the timing of collections and billings. Our average DSO was 35 days at October 2, 2021 and January 2, 2021. Inventory increased to $59.1 million at October 2, 2021 from $47.9 million at January 2, 2021. The increase in inventory was primarily due to increased revenues in the recent three-month period. Our inventory levels will vary based on the availability of supply, and to a lesser extent, the impact of variations between forecasted demand used for purchasing inventory and actual demand. Our DOI was 71 days at October 2, 2021 and 70 days at January 2, 2021. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $864.2 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2021, compared to net cash used of $322.3 million during the nine months ended October 3, 2020. The increase in cash outflows was principally due to an increase in cash outflows of $853.2 million from net purchases and sales of marketable securities in the current period, offset by a cash payment of $316.8 million for the acquisition of the Wi-Fi and Bluetooth business of Redpine Signals in the prior period. 26 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $841.7 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2021, compared to net cash provided of $200.6 million during the nine months ended October 3, 2020. The increase in cash outflows was principally due to $845.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of debt in the prior period and an increase of $672.1 million for repurchases of our common stock in the current period, offset by a decrease of $478.2 million in payments on debt in the current period. During the nine months ended October 2, 2021, we completed a tender offer in which we repurchased 4.0 million shares for an aggregate cost of $640.7 million. Discontinued Operations Net cash provided by discontinued operations was $2.8 billion during the nine months ended October 2, 2021, compared to net cash provided of $104.5 million during the nine months ended October 3, 2020. The increase in cash inflows was principally due to $2.75 billion in proceeds from the sale of our infrastructure and automotive business. Debt As of October 2, 2021, our debt included $535 million principal amount of convertible senior notes (the 2025 Notes). We also had an undrawn $400 million revolving credit facility. We have an option to increase the size of the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facility by up to the greater of an aggregate of $250 million and 100% of EBITDA, plus an amount that would not cause a secured leverage ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.00, subject to certain conditions. On January 6, 2021, we issued a notice of redemption for the remaining 2022 convertible senior notes (the 2022 Notes). During the three months ended April 3, 2021, we paid $140.6 million in cash and issued 528,022 shares of common stock in connection with the redemption of the remaining 2022 Notes. See Note 8, Debt , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. Inventory valuation - We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its manufacturing cost exceeds the estimated selling price less costs of completion, disposal and transportation. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. 27 Table of Contents Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets - We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. We assess goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount. In determining fair value, several valuation methodologies are allowed, although quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. Acquired intangible assets - When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology and customer relationships. Fair value of these assets is determined primarily using the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their expected useful lives. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Incorrect estimates could result in future impairment charges, and those charges could be material to our results of operations. Revenue recognition - We recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. In order to achieve this core principle, we apply a five-step process. As part of this process, we analyze the performance obligations in a customer contract and estimate the consideration we expect to receive. The evaluation of performance obligations requires that we identify the promised goods and services in the contract. For contracts that contain more than one promised good and service, we then must determine whether the promises are capable of being distinct and if they are separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Additionally, for our sales to distributors, we must estimate the impact that price adjustments and rights of return will have on consideration. We make these estimates based on available information, including recent sales activity and pricing data. If our evaluation of performance obligations is incorrect, we may recognize revenue sooner or later than is appropriate. If our estimates of consideration are inaccurate, we may recognize too much or too little revenue in a period. We may adjust assumptions used to estimate consideration periodically based on analysis of prior estimates. Stock-based compensation - We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The fair value of our full-value stock awards (with the exception of market-based performance awards) equals the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The fair value of our market-based performance awards is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation. The fair value of our stock option and employee stock purchase plan grants is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 12, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income taxes - We are required to calculate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves calculating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we are required to estimate the amount of expected future taxable income. Judgment is inherent in this process and differences between the estimated and actual taxable income could result in a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Table of Contents We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine whether the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition. Therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, they could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Such information is incorporated by reference herein.