Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53- week year ending on the Saturday closest to December 31st. Fiscal 2010 will have 52 weeks and fiscal 2009 had 52 weeks. Our second quarter of fiscal 2010 ended July 3, 2010. Our second quarter of fiscal 2009 ended July 4, 2009. Overview We design and develop proprietary, analog-intensive, mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of applications. Mixed-signal ICs are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components in a broad range of applications in a variety of markets, including communications, consumer, industrial, automotive, medical and power management. Our major customers include 2Wire, Apple, Huawei, LG Electronics, Nokia, Pace (formerly Philips), Panasonic, Samsung, Thomson and Varian Medical Systems. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third-parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Broadcast products, which include our broadcast radio receivers and transmitters, video tuners and demodulators, satellite set-top box receivers and satellite radio tuners; Access products, which include our ISOmodem embedded modems, Voice over IP (VoIP) products, such as our ProSLIC subscriber line interface circuits and voice direct access arrangement (DAA), and our Power over Ethernet devices; Broad-based products, which include 8-bit microcontroller products, timing products (including clocks, precision clock & data recovery ICs and oscillators), short-range wireless transceivers, isolators, current sensors and our QuickSense portfolio of touch, proximity and ambient light sensing devices; and Mature products, which include our silicon DAA for PC modems, DSL analog front end ICs, optical physical layer transceivers and RF Synthesizers. Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce next generation ICs with added functionality and further integration. In April 2010, we acquired Silicon Clocks, Inc., a privately held company that designs and develops microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology to enable the manufacture of silicon resonators and sensors directly on standard CMOS wafers. The acquired technology is aligned with our efforts to leverage our CMOS-based timing products into high-volume applications such as consumer electronics. 21 Table of Contents In the first six months of fiscal 2010, we introduced low power capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers, a line of digital isolators and isolated gate drivers designed to replace traditional optocouplers, a digital TV demodulator that combines satellite, terrestrial and cable digital video broadcast (DVB) functions in one highly integrated device, a frequency-flexible timing IC solution for networking and telecommunications applications, a family of ultra-low-power wireless microcontrollers ideal for battery-powered systems and a highly integrated AM/FM receiver for analog tuned radios that reduces radio design and manufacturing costs. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expanding our total available market opportunity. During the six months ended July 3, 2010, we had one customer, Samsung, whose purchases across a variety of product areas represented more than 10% of our revenues. No other single end customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the six months ended July 3, 2010. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Two of our distributors, Edom Technology and Avnet, represented 29% and 13% of our revenues during the six months ended July 3, 2010, respectively. There were no other distributors or contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the six months ended July 3, 2010. The percentage of our revenues derived from customers located outside of the United States was 86% during the six months ended July 3, 2010. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, personal video recorders, set-top boxes, portable navigation devices and mobile handsets, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated almost exclusively by sales of our ICs. We recognize revenue on sales when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Generally, we recognize revenue from product sales to direct customers and contract manufacturers upon shipment. Certain of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing certain rights of return and price protection on products unsold by distributors. Accordingly, we defer the revenue and cost of revenue on such sales until the distributors sell the product to the end customer. Our products typically carry a one-year replacement warranty. Replacements have been insignificant to date. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. The vast majority of our revenues were negotiated at prices that reflect a discount from the list prices for our products. These discounts are made for a variety of reasons, including: 1) to establish a relationship with a new customer, 2) as an incentive for customers to purchase products in larger volumes, 3) to provide profit margin to our distributors who resell our products or 4) in response to competition. In addition, as a product matures, we expect that the average selling price for such product will decline due to the greater availability of competing products. Our ability to increase revenues in the future is dependent on increased demand for our established products and our ability to ship larger volumes of those products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties and amortization of purchased software, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; an allocated portion of our occupancy costs; and allocable depreciation of testing equipment and leasehold improvements. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, new product mask, wafer, packaging and test costs, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs for such operations. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock compensation, related allocable portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, patent litigation legal fees and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income. Interest income reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net reflects foreign currency remeasurement adjustments and gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets. Provision for Income Taxes. Provision for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable statutory rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses (including a portion of our stock compensation), research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. 23 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 32.5 37.8 33.2 38.6 Gross margin 67.5 62.2 66.8 61.4 Operating expenses: Research and development 22.7 24.8 23.1 27.6 Selling, general and administrative 22.0 25.1 22.1 26.4 Operating expenses 44.7 49.9 45.2 54.0 Operating income 22.8 12.3 21.6 7.4 Other income (expense): Interest income 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.8 Interest expense 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.1 ) Other income (expense), net (0.5 ) 0.3 (0.4 ) 0.2 Income before income taxes 22.8 13.1 21.7 8.3 Provision for income taxes 7.2 3.8 5.6 2.8 Net income 15.6 % 9.3 % 16.1 % 5.5 % Revenues Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change Revenues $ 134.6 $ 104.2 $ 30.4 29.1 % $ 261.3 $ 187.9 $ 73.4 39.0 % The growth in revenue in the recent three and six month periods was due primarily to improvements in the health of our products end markets and increases in market share. Unit volumes of our products increased compared to the three and six months ended July 4, 2009 by 21.0% and 38.2%, respectively. Average selling prices increased during the same periods by 7.2% and 1.1%, respectively. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset these decreases to some degree. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change Gross margin $ 90.9 $ 64.8 $ 26.1 40.3 % $ 174.5 $ 115.5 $ 59.0 51.1 % Percent of revenue 67.5 % 62.2 % 66.8 % 61.4 % The increase in the dollar amount of gross margin in the recent three and six month periods was primarily due to our increased sales. The increase in gross margin as a percent of revenue in the recent three and six month periods was primarily due to changes in product mix, improvements in our inventory management and manufacturing cost reductions. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This creates downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues and may be offset to the extent we are able to: 1) introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our ICs; 2) achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; 3) achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or 4) reduce logistics costs. 24 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change Research and development $ 30.5 $ 25.9 $ 4.6 17.9 % $ 60.4 $ 51.9 $ 8.5 16.4 % Percent of revenue 22.7 % 24.8 % 23.1 % 27.6 % The increase in research and development expense in the recent three and six month periods was principally due to increases of $4.3 million and $7.5 million for personnel-related expenses, respectively. The decrease in research and development expense as a percent of revenues is due to our increased sales. We expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars, commensurate with our revenue growth, but remain relatively stable as a percentage of revenues. Significant recent development projects include low power capacitive touch-sense microcontrollers, a line of digital isolators and isolated gate drivers designed to replace traditional optocouplers, a digital TV demodulator that combines satellite, terrestrial and cable digital video broadcast (DVB) functions in one highly integrated device, a frequency-flexible timing IC solution for networking and telecommunications applications, a family of ultra-low-power wireless microcontrollers ideal for battery-powered systems, a highly integrated AM/FM receiver for analog tuned radios that reduces radio design and manufacturing costs, a family of ultra-efficient microcontrollers for power-sensitive and battery-powered embedded systems, a family of highly integrated, energy-efficient quad PoE PSE controllers, a new line of automotive-qualified microcontrollers that enable a dramatic reduction in system cost and footprint in body electronics applications, our QuickSense portfolio of highly accurate and fast-response touch, proximity and ambient light sensing devices and the expansion of our Any-Rate Precision Clock family with both a low jitter clock generator for broadcast video applications and web-customizable 8-output CMOS clock generators. In-Process Research and Development In connection with the purchase of Silicon Clocks, we acquired certain in-process research and development (IPR&D) assets. IPR&D represents acquired technology that had not achieved technological feasibility as of the acquisition closing date and had no alternative future use. These costs were recorded as indefinite-lived intangible assets at fair value. The assets are tested for impairment through their completion and then amortized to research and development expense over their useful lives. The fair value of each project was determined using the income approach. The discount rate applicable to the cash flows was 19.0%. This rate reflects the weighted-average cost of capital and the risks inherent in the development process. The IPR&D recorded in connection with the acquisition consisted of the following (in thousands): Project Fair Value Resonator $ 5,200 Clocks 4,270 $ 9,470 We are developing the IPR&D projects using MEMS technology. The remaining research and development efforts include additional design, integration and testing. As of the acquisition date, we projected the costs to complete the projects to be $8.1 million. The significant risks associated with the successful completion of these projects include our potential inability to finish the product designs, produce working models and gain customer acceptance. Failure to complete these projects in a timely manner could result in lost revenues. We do not expect the products in design derived from these technologies to begin to contribute to revenues prior to fiscal 2011. 25 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 29.7 $ 26.2 $ 3.5 13.6 % $ 57.7 $ 49.6 $ 8.1 16.3 % Percent of revenue 22.0 % 25.1 % 22.1 % 26.4 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent three and six month periods was principally due to increases of (a) $1.9 million and $5.7 million for personnel-related expenses, respectively, and (b) $0.6 million and $0.8 million for legal fees, primarily related to litigation, respectively. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense as a percent of revenues is due to our increased sales. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will remain stable in absolute dollars and decline slightly as a percentage of revenues. Interest Income Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change Interest income $ 0.6 $ 0.7 $ (0.1 ) $ 1.3 $ 1.5 $ (0.2 ) The decrease in interest income for the recent three and six month periods was largely due to lower interest rates on the underlying instruments, and partially offset by a higher average investment balance. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three and six months ended July 3, 2010 was $22 thousand and $45 thousand, respectively, compared to $51 thousand and $103 thousand, for the three and six months ended July 4, 2009, respectively. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net for the three and six months ended July 3, 2010 was $(0.6) million and $(0.9) million, respectively, compared to $0.3 million for the three and six months ended July 4, 2009. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (in millions) July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change July 3, 2010 July 4, 2009 Change Provision for income taxes $ 9.6 $ 3.9 $ 5.7 $ 14.6 $ 5.2 $ 9.4 Effective tax rate 31.4 % 28.8 % 25.7 % 33.4 % The effective tax rate for the three months ended July 3, 2010 increased from the prior period, primarily due to the current period tax charge related to the intercompany license of certain technology obtained in the acquisition of Silicon Clocks and the non-renewal of the federal research and development tax credit, partially offset by an increase in the foreign tax rate benefit. The effective tax rate for the six months ended July 3, 2010 decreased from the prior period, primarily due to an increase in the foreign tax rate benefit, partially offset by the intercompany license of certain technology obtained in the acquisition of Silicon Clocks and the non-renewal of the federal research and development tax credit. In the second quarter of 2010, we aligned, through an intercompany license, the non-U.S. intellectual property rights associated with the acquisition of Silicon Clocks with existing non-U.S. rights currently owned by one of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. This license resulted in a one-time increase in the 2010 effective tax rate. 26 Table of Contents The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, the limited deductibility of stock compensation expense, research and development tax credits and other permanent items including changes to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Business Outlook We expect revenues in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 to be in the range of $136 to $141 million. Furthermore, we expect our diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.55. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of July 3, 2010 consisted of $353.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our short-term investments consist primarily of U.S. government agency bonds and discount notes, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, U.S. Treasury bills and bonds, commercial paper, international government bonds and variable-rate demand notes. Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities. Early in fiscal 2008, auctions for many of our auction-rate securities failed because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As of July 3, 2010, we held $27.0 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions. The securities had previously been valued using quoted prices in active markets. When the auctions began to fail, quoted prices for the securities were no longer observable. As such, we changed our fair value measurement methodology for all auction-rate securities from quoted prices in active markets to a cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. The underlying assets of our auction-rate securities consisted of student loans and municipal bonds, of which $25.0 million were guaranteed by the U.S. government and the remaining $2.0 million were privately insured. As of July 3, 2010, $18.0 million of the auction-rate securities had credit ratings of AAA, $2.0 million had credit ratings of A and $7.0 million had a credit rating of BBB. These securities had contractual maturity dates ranging from 2029 to 2046 and were yielding 0.4% to 3.3% per year at July 3, 2010. We are receiving the underlying cash flows on all of our auction-rate securities. The principal amounts associated with failed auctions are not expected to be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the security, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities mature. We are unable to predict if these funds will become available before their maturity dates. We do not expect to need access to the capital represented by any of our auction-rate securities prior to their maturities. We do not intend to sell, and we believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell, our auction-rate securities before their anticipated recovery in market value or final settlement at the underlying par value. Net cash provided by operating activities was $52.5 million during the six months ended July 3, 2010, compared to net cash provided of $26.5 million during the six months ended July 4, 2009. Operating cash flows during the six months ended July 3, 2010 reflect our net income of $42.1 million, adjustments of $30.8 million for depreciation, amortization, stock compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash outflow of $20.4 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable increased to $76.3 million at July 3, 2010 from $56.1 million at January 2, 2010. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from a larger portion of the shipments occurring in the second half of the quarter ended July 3, 2010 in contrast to the more linear shipments that occurred during the last quarter of the prior year. Our average days sales outstanding (DSO) was 51 days at July 3, 2010 and 40 days at January 2, 2010. 27 Table of Contents Inventory decreased to $29.1 million at July 3, 2010 from $31.5 million at January 2, 2010. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. Our average days of inventory (DOI) was 60 days at July 3, 2010 and 65 days at January 2, 2010. Net cash used in investing activities was $86.0 million during the six months ended July 3, 2010, compared to net cash provided of $7.4 million during the six months ended July 4, 2009. The decrease was principally due to an increase of $73.9 million in net outflows for purchases of investments and a net payment of $18.4 million for the acquisition of Silicon Clocks. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $12 to $16 million for fiscal 2010. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Net cash used in financing activities was $81.3 million during the six months ended July 3, 2010, compared to net cash used of $6.7 million during the six months ended July 4, 2009. The increase was principally due to an increase of $88.2 million for repurchases of our common stock, offset by an increase of $12.1 million from proceeds from the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes. In October 2009, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $150 million of our common stock prior to the end of 2010. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash and investment balances are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of revenues on sales to distributors; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its standard cost exceeds the estimated market value. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. 28 Table of Contents Stock compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The fair value of our stock-based awards is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes valuation calculation requires us to estimate key assumptions such as future stock price volatility, expected terms, risk-free rates and dividend yield. Expected stock price volatility is based on implied volatility from traded options on our stock in the marketplace and historical volatility of our stock. The expected term of options granted is derived from an analysis of historical exercises and remaining contractual life of stock options, and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. We have never paid cash dividends, and do not currently intend to pay cash dividends, and thus have assumed a 0% dividend yield. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 9, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the securitys amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. 29 Table of Contents Income taxes We are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We then assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition; therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, it could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820)Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements . The ASU requires new disclosures about significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 fair value measurements. The ASU also clarifies existing disclosure requirements regarding inputs and valuation techniques, as well as the level of disaggregation for each class of assets and liabilities for which separate fair value measurements should be disclosed. We adopted ASU 2010-06 at the beginning of fiscal 2010, except for the separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements, which is effective for us at the beginning of fiscal 2011. The adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact, and the deferred provisions of this ASU are not expected to have a material impact, on our financial statements.