Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2025 will have 53 weeks with the extra week occurring in the first quarter of the year. Fiscal 2024 had 52 weeks. Our first quarter of fiscal 2025 ended April 5, 2025 and our first quarter of fiscal 2024 ended March 30, 2024. Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions In recent years, the global economic environment has experienced inflationary pressure, high interest rates, and geopolitical tension, and we have experienced declines in revenues as our customers slowed purchases to reduce existing inventories in response to a softening market. There currently is increasing uncertainty regarding global macroeconomic conditions as a result of recent changes to U.S. trade policies, including tariffs on foreign imports to the U.S. The extent and duration of tariffs and the resulting impact on general economic conditions and our business are uncertain and depend on various factors, such as negotiations between the U.S. and affected countries, the responses of other countries (such as the retaliatory tariffs imposed by China), exemptions or exclusions that may apply, and any additional cost which may be borne by us, our suppliers, and/or our end customers. Additionally, increased geopolitical tensions, the risk of inflation and a recession, and the weakening U.S. dollar, have added to the uncertainty. The extent of the impact, or any new impact, of macroeconomic conditions on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, their impact to the businesses of our suppliers and/or customers, and other items identified under Risk Factors below, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Any extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption could materially affect our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity, and financial condition. Overview We are a leader in secure, intelligent wireless technology for a more connected world. Our integrated hardware and software platform, intuitive development tools, industry leading ecosystem and robust support enable customers in building advanced industrial, commercial, home and life applications. We make it easy for developers to solve complex wireless challenges throughout the product lifecycle and get to market quickly with innovative solutions that transform industries, grow economies and improve lives. We provide analog-intensive, mixed-signal solutions for use in a variety of electronic products in a broad range of applications for the Internet of Things (IoT) including connected home and security, industrial automation and control, smart metering, smart lighting, commercial building automation, consumer electronics, asset tracking and medical instrumentation. We group our products as Industrial & Commercial or Home & Life based on the target markets they address. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our integrated circuit (IC) designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because some of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 17 Table of Contents Current Period Highlights Revenues increased $71.3 million in the recent quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 due to increased revenues from our Home & Life products and our Industrial & Commercial products. Gross profit increased $42.7 million during the same period primarily as a result of the increase in revenues. Gross margin increased to 55.0% in the recent quarter compared to 51.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 as our indirect and overhead expenses remained relatively constant but decreased as a percentage of revenues. Operating expenses increased by $15.7 million in the recent quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2024 primarily due to higher personnel-related costs. Operating loss in the recent quarter was $32.1 million compared to operating loss of $59.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. Refer to Results of Operations below for further discussion. We ended the first quarter of fiscal 2025 with $424.8 million in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.1 million during the current year three-month period. Accounts receivable were $52.1 million at April 5, 2025, representing 26 days sales outstanding (DSO). Inventory was $83.4 million at April 5, 2025, representing 94 days of inventory (DOI). During the three months ended April 5, 2025, we had no customer that represented more than 10% of our revenues. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Two of our distributors who sell to our customers, Arrow Electronics and Edom Technology, each represented more than 10% of our revenues during the three months ended April 5, 2025. The percentage of our revenues derived from outside of the United States was 91% during the three months ended April 5, 2025. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: Revenues. Revenues are generated predominately by sales of our products. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell, and the prices we charge for our products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics, and quality assurance; costs of royalties, other intellectual property license costs, and certain acquired intangible assets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Our gross margin fluctuates depending on product mix, manufacturing yields, inventory valuation adjustments, average selling prices, and other factors. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as new product masks, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, amortization of intangible assets, professional fees, legal fees, and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income and Other, Net. Interest income and other, net reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, foreign currency remeasurement adjustments, and other non-operating income and expenses. 18 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations, our credit facility, and amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes. Provision for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable tax rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits, global intangible low-taxed income, Subpart F income inclusions, and other permanent differences. See Note 10, Income Taxes, to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 45.0 48.2 Gross profit 55.0 51.8 Operating expenses: Research and development 49.6 75.8 Selling, general and administrative 23.4 31.5 Operating expenses 73.1 107.4 Operating loss (18.1) (55.6) Other income (expense): Interest income and other, net 2.1 2.6 Interest expense (0.2) (0.5) Loss before income taxes (16.1) (53.5) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1.1 (0.4) Net loss (17.1) % (53.1) % Revenues Three Months Ended (in millions) April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Change % Change Industrial & Commercial $ 96.0 $ 65.3 $ 30.7 47.0 % Home & Life 81.7 41.1 40.6 98.8 % $ 177.7 $ 106.4 $ 71.3 67.0 % The increase in revenues in the recent three-month period was due to increased revenues of $30.7 million from our Industrial & Commercial products and increased revenues of $40.6 million from our Home & Life products. Revenues increased in the recent three-month periods as a result of increases in unit volumes and average selling prices of our products. The average selling prices of our products may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to changes in product mix, pricing decisions and other factors. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. Gross Profit Three Months Ended (in millions) April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Change Gross profit $ 97.8 $ 55.1 $ 42.7 Gross margin 55.0 % 51.8 % 3.2 % 19 Table of Contents Gross profit increased during the recent three-month period primarily as a result of increases in revenues in the periods. Gross margin increased as our indirect and overhead expenses remained relatively constant but decreased as a percentage of revenues in the recent three-month period as a result of the increase in revenues. We may experience variations in the average selling prices of certain of our products. Increases in average selling prices may occur during periods of increased demand, but such demand may be short-lived and could be accompanied by higher product costs. Declines in average selling prices create downward pressure on gross margin and may be offset to the extent we are able to introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our products; reduce costs of existing products through improved design; achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended (in millions) April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Change % Change Research and development $ 88.2 $ 80.7 $ 7.5 9.3 % Percent of revenue 49.6 % 75.8 % Research and development expense in the recent three-month period increased, with an increase of $12.1 million for personnel-related costs as a result of lower expenses in the prior year period due to cost containment measures, partially offset by $2.7 million of government incentives, and decreases for new product introduction and software expense and amortization of intangible assets of $1.0 million and $0.6 million respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended (in millions) April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 41.6 $ 33.6 $ 8.0 23.8 % Percent of revenue 23.4 % 31.5 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent three-month period was primarily due to a $7.8 million increase in personnel-related costs as a result of lower expenses in the prior year period due to cost containment measures. Interest Income and Other, Net Interest income and other, net for the three months ended April 5, 2025 was $3.8 million compared to $2.7 million for the three months ended March 30, 2024. The increase in interest income and other, net in the recent three-month period was primarily due to a higher cash and cash equivalents balance in the current year period as compared to the prior year period as well as higher interest rates earned on the investments. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended April 5, 2025 was $0.3 million, compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a balance outstanding on the revolving credit facility for a portion of the prior year period. 20 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended (in millions) April 5, 2025 March 30, 2024 Change Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 1.9 $ (0.4) $ 2.3 Effective tax rate (6.6) % 0.7 % The change in the provision for income taxes for the three months ended April 5, 2025 is primarily due to tax expense associated with the increase in the U.S. and Singapore valuation allowance in the three months ended April 5, 2025, whereas the valuation allowance had not yet been established in the three months ended March 30, 2024. Because of the valuation allowance, we are unable to recognize the full tax benefit of the pre-tax losses incurred in those jurisdictions in the current year. A valuation allowance is required to be established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. We identified a need for the valuation allowance due to the presence of significant negative evidence, including recent operating losses and uncertainty around the timing of recovery in economic conditions within both the semiconductor industry and the broader economy. We intend to maintain the valuation allowance until our ability to forecast sufficient future sources of taxable income is reestablished. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of April 5, 2025 consisted of $424.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which $204.1 million was held by our U.S. entities. The remaining balance was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of government debt securities, which include U.S. government securities; corporate debt securities, which include asset-backed securities and corporate bonds; and money market funds. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.1 million during the three months ended April 5, 2025, compared to net cash used of $71.8 million during the three months ended March 30, 2024. Operating cash flows during the three months ended April 5, 2025 reflect our net loss of $30.5 million, adjustments of $29.9 million for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, and deferred income taxes, and a net cash inflow of $48.7 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable decreased to $52.1 million at April 5, 2025 from $54.5 million at December 28, 2024. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted primarily from normal variations in the timing of collections and billings. Our DSO decreased to 26 days at April 5, 2025 from 29 days at December 28, 2024. Inventory decreased to $83.4 million at April 5, 2025 from $105.6 million at December 28, 2024. Our inventory levels will vary based on the availability of supply and the impact of variations between forecasted demand used for purchasing inventory and actual demand. Our DOI was 94 days at April 5, 2025 and 125 days at December 28, 2024. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $3.9 million during the three months ended April 5, 2025, compared to net cash provided of $81.5 million during the three months ended March 30, 2024. The decrease in cash inflows was principally due to a decrease in cash provided by net purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities of $70.2 million in the current period, and proceeds received in the prior year of $12.4 million for the sale of an equity investment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.0 million during the three months ended April 5, 2025, compared to $45.7 million during the three months ended March 30, 2024. The decrease in cash outflows was principally due to a $45.0 million repayment of borrowings under the revolving credit facility in the prior year period. 21 Table of Contents Debt As of April 5, 2025, we had a $400 million revolving credit facility. We have an option to increase the size of the borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facility by up to the greater of an aggregate of $250 million and 100% of EBITDA, plus an amount that would not cause a secured net leverage ratio to exceed 3.50 to 1.00, subject to certain conditions. As of April 5, 2025, no amounts were outstanding on the revolving credit facility. We were granted a waiver of compliance for the minimum interest coverage ratio through October 4, 2025. In the event we are not able to achieve compliance by the end of the waiver period, we may need to obtain an additional waiver in order to access the revolving credit facility. Capital Requirements Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments, credit under our credit facility, and cash generated from operations are sufficient to meet our short-term (i.e., over at least the next twelve months) and long-term capital requirements, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are described in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2024. There have been no material subsequent changes to our critical accounting estimates.