Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Cautionary Statement above and Risk Factors below for discussions of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Our fiscal year-end financial reporting periods are a 52- or 53- week year ending on the Saturday closest to December 31st. Fiscal 2011 will have 52 weeks and fiscal 2010 had 52 weeks. Our third quarter of fiscal 2011 ended October 1, 2011. Our third quarter of fiscal 2010 ended October 2, 2010. Overview We design and develop proprietary, analog-intensive, mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of applications. Mixed-signal ICs are electronic components that convert real-world analog signals, such as sound and radio waves, into digital signals that electronic products can process. Therefore, mixed-signal ICs are critical components in a broad range of applications in a variety of markets, including communications, consumer, industrial, automotive, medical and power management. Our major customers include Amstrad, Cisco, Huawei, LG Electronics, Pace, Panasonic, Sagem, Samsung, Technicolor and Varian Medical Systems. As a fabless semiconductor company, we rely on third-party semiconductor fabricators in Asia, and to a lesser extent the United States and Europe, to manufacture the silicon wafers that reflect our IC designs. Each wafer contains numerous die, which are cut from the wafer to create a chip for an IC. We rely on third-parties in Asia to assemble, package, and, in most cases, test these devices and ship these units to our customers. Testing performed by such third parties facilitates faster delivery of products to our customers (particularly those located in Asia), shorter production cycle times, lower inventory requirements, lower costs and increased flexibility of test capacity. Our expertise in analog-intensive, high-performance, mixed-signal ICs enables us to develop highly differentiated solutions that address multiple markets. We group our products into the following categories: Broad-based products, which include our microcontrollers, timing products (clocks and oscillators), wireless receivers, isolation devices and human interface sensors; Broadcast products, which include our broadcast audio and video products; Access products, which include our embedded modems, Voice over IP (VoIP) products and our Power over Ethernet devices; and Mature products, which include certain devices that are at the end of their respective life cycles and therefore receive minimal or no continued research and development investment, including our DSL analog front end ICs and IRDA devices. Through acquisitions and internal development efforts, we have continued to diversify our product portfolio and introduce next generation ICs with added functionality and further integration. In January 2011, we acquired Spectra Linear, Inc. Spectra Linears family of low-power, highly programmable and small-footprint silicon clocking solutions is optimized for consumer electronics and embedded applications. The acquired products complement our existing timing product line by adding a broad family of ICs that we believe will accelerate penetration in high-volume applications. 24 Table of Contents In the first nine months of fiscal 2011, we introduced single-chip hybrid TV receivers designed to simplify TV and set-top box designs, a multi-band radio receiver that streamlines the design of wheel-tuned radio products with digital displays, a silicon TV tuner solution for TV makers in China and Taiwan, next generation ISOmodem embedded modems with advanced voice features for a wide range of data modem applications, six-channel digital isolators with isolation ratings up to 5 kV, a highly integrated, cost-effective and power-efficient subscriber line interface circuit (SLIC) solution for VoIP gateways, an energy-efficient wireless sensor node solution powered by a solar energy harvesting source, high-performance clock ICs for high-speed optical transport network (OTN) applications, two microcontroller families that simplify the addition of USB connectivity to embedded designs, next-generation infrared and ambient light sensors for human interface applications and a family of crystal oscillators and voltage-controlled crystal oscillators designed to minimize jitter, system cost and design complexity for a wide range of high-performance, cost-sensitive applications. We plan to continue to introduce products that increase the content we provide for existing applications, thereby enabling us to serve markets we do not currently address and expanding our total available market opportunity. During the nine months ended October 1, 2011, one customer, Samsung, represented more than 10% of our revenues. No other single end customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the nine months ended October 1, 2011. In addition to direct sales to customers, some of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors and contract manufacturers. An end customer purchasing through a contract manufacturer typically instructs such contract manufacturer to obtain our products and incorporate such products with other components for sale by such contract manufacturer to the end customer. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors and contract manufacturers, we refer to such end customer as our customer. Three of our distributors, Edom Technology, Avnet and Macnica, represented 24%, 13% and 11% of our revenues during the nine months ended October 1, 2011, respectively. There were no other distributors or contract manufacturers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during the nine months ended October 1, 2011. The percentage of our revenues derived from customers located outside of the United States was 87% during the nine months ended October 1, 2011. All of our revenues to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from customers outside of the United States. The sales cycle for our ICs can be as long as 12 months or more. An additional three to six months or more are usually required before a customer ships a significant volume of devices that incorporate our ICs. Due to this lengthy sales cycle, we typically experience a significant delay between incurring research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and the corresponding sales. Consequently, if sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters would be adversely affected. Moreover, the amount of time between initial research and development and commercialization of a product, if ever, can be substantially longer than the sales cycle for the product. Accordingly, if we incur substantial research and development costs without developing a commercially successful product, our operating results, as well as our growth prospects, could be adversely affected. Because many of our ICs are designed for use in consumer products such as televisions, set-top boxes, portable navigation devices and mobile handsets, we expect that the demand for our products will be typically subject to some degree of seasonal demand. However, rapid changes in our markets and across our product areas make it difficult for us to accurately estimate the impact of seasonal factors on our business. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income: Revenues. Revenues are generated almost exclusively by sales of our ICs. We recognize revenue on sales when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and 4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Generally, we recognize revenue from product sales to direct customers and contract manufacturers upon shipment. Certain of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing certain rights of return and price protection on products unsold by distributors. Accordingly, we defer the revenue and cost of revenue on such sales until the distributors sell the product to the end customer. Our products typically carry a one-year replacement warranty. Replacements have been insignificant to date. Our revenues are subject to variation from period to period due to the volume of shipments made within a period, the mix of products we sell and the prices we charge for our products. The vast majority of our revenues were negotiated at prices that reflect a discount from the list prices for our products. These discounts are made for a variety of reasons, including: 1) to establish a relationship with a new customer, 2) as an incentive for customers to purchase products in larger volumes, 3) to provide profit margin to our distributors who resell our products or 4) in response to competition. In addition, as a product matures, we expect that the average selling price for such product will decline due to the greater availability of competing products. Our ability to increase revenues in the future is dependent on increased demand for our established products and our ability to ship larger volumes of those products in response to such demand, as well as our ability to develop or acquire new products and subsequently achieve customer acceptance of newly introduced products. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of purchasing finished silicon wafers processed by independent foundries; costs associated with assembly, test and shipping of those products; costs of personnel and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; costs of software royalties and amortization of purchased software, other intellectual property license costs and certain acquired intangible assets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product mask, wafer, packaging and test costs, external consulting and services costs, equipment tooling, equipment depreciation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as an allocated portion of our occupancy costs for such operations. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, related allocable portion of our occupancy costs, sales commissions to independent sales representatives, applications engineering support, professional fees, legal fees and promotional and marketing expenses. Interest Income. Interest income reflects interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of interest on our short and long-term obligations. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency remeasurement adjustments as well as other non-operating income and expenses. Provision for Income Taxes. Provision for income taxes includes both domestic and foreign income taxes at the applicable statutory rates adjusted for non-deductible expenses, research and development tax credits and other permanent differences. 26 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income data as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 38.8 34.5 39.4 33.6 Gross margin 61.2 65.5 60.6 66.4 Operating expenses: Research and development 26.6 25.6 27.7 23.9 Selling, general and administrative 22.9 23.8 23.4 22.7 Operating expenses 49.5 49.4 51.1 46.6 Operating income 11.7 16.1 9.5 19.8 Other income (expense): Interest income 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Interest expense 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other income (expense), net (0.1 ) (0.3 ) 0.1 (0.3 ) Income before income taxes 12.0 16.2 10.0 19.9 Provision for income taxes 2.5 1.0 3.8 4.1 Net income 9.5 % 15.2 % 6.2 % 15.8 % Revenues Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change Revenues $ 119.1 $ 120.2 $ (1.1 ) (0.9 )% $ 364.9 $ 381.5 $ (16.6 ) (4.3 )% The decline in the sales of our products in the recent three and nine month periods was driven primarily by demand weakness. Unit volumes of our products increased by 4.6% and average selling prices decreased by 4.4% compared to the three months ended October 2, 2010. Unit volumes of our products decreased by 7.0% and average selling prices increased by 3.6% compared to the nine months ended October 2, 2010. The average selling prices of our products may fluctuate significantly from period to period. In general, as our products become more mature, we expect to experience decreases in average selling prices. We anticipate that newly announced, higher priced, next generation products and product derivatives will offset some of these decreases. Gross Margin Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change Gross margin $ 72.9 $ 78.7 $ (5.8 ) (7.3 )% $ 221.3 $ 253.2 $ (31.9 ) (12.6 )% Percent of revenue 61.2 % 65.5 % 60.6 % 66.4 % The decrease in gross margin in the recent three month period was primarily due to changes in product mix. The decrease in gross margin in the recent nine month period was primarily due to changes in product mix, decreased sales, charges related to the acquisition of Spectra Linear and a one-time charge for the cancellation of in-process material. 27 Table of Contents We may experience declines in the average selling prices of certain of our products. This creates downward pressure on gross margin as a percentage of revenues and may be offset to the extent we are able to: 1) introduce higher margin new products and gain market share with our ICs; 2) achieve lower production costs from our wafer suppliers and third-party assembly and test subcontractors; 3) achieve lower production costs per unit as a result of improved yields throughout the manufacturing process; or 4) reduce logistics costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change Research and development $ 31.7 $ 30.8 $ 0.9 3.1 % $ 101.2 $ 91.2 $ 10.0 11.0 % Percent of revenue 26.6 % 25.6 % 27.7 % 23.9 % The increase in research and development expense in the recent three and nine month periods was primarily due to increases of (a) $1.0 million and $7.2 million for personnel-related expenses, respectively, including zero and $1.6 million for one-time personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Spectra Linear, respectively, and (b) $0.6 million and $1.9 million for amortization of acquired intangible assets, respectively. We expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of 2011. Recent development projects include single-chip hybrid TV receivers designed to simplify TV and set-top box designs, a multi-band radio receiver that streamlines the design of wheel-tuned radio products with digital displays, a silicon TV tuner solution for TV makers in China and Taiwan, next generation ISOmodem embedded modems with advanced voice features for a wide range of data modem applications, six-channel digital isolators with isolation ratings up to 5 kV, a highly integrated, cost-effective and power-efficient SLIC solution for VoIP gateways, an energy-efficient wireless sensor node solution powered by a solar energy harvesting source, high-performance clock ICs for high-speed OTN applications, two microcontroller families that simplify the addition of USB connectivity to embedded designs, next-generation infrared and ambient light sensors for human interface applications, a family of crystal oscillators and voltage-controlled crystal oscillators designed to minimize jitter, system cost and design complexity for a wide range of high-performance, cost-sensitive applications, a bridge chip family that simplifies the addition of USB and touch sense connectivity in embedded designs, the expansion of our automotive portfolio with a family of highly integrated AM/FM tuners for car stereos, frequency flexible in-circuit programmable CMOS clock generators and power management ICs that improve efficiency in PoE equipment. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change % Change Selling, general and administrative $ 27.3 $ 28.6 $ (1.3 ) (4.6 )% $ 85.2 $ 86.3 $ (1.1 ) (1.3 )% Percent of revenue 22.9 % 23.8 % 23.4 % 22.7 % The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent three month period was principally due to (a) a decrease of $0.6 million for legal fees, primarily related to litigation and acquisition-related costs, and (b) a decline of $0.4 million in the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expense in the recent nine month period was principally due to a) a decrease of $1.7 million for legal fees, and (b) a decline of $1.3 million in the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration. The decrease in the nine month period was offset in part by an increase of $1.8 million for personnel-related expenses, including $3.0 million for one-time personnel costs associated with the acquisition of Spectra Linear. We expect that selling, general and administrative expense will remain relatively stable in absolute dollars in the fourth quarter of 2011. 28 Table of Contents Interest Income Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change Interest income $ 0.4 $ 0.5 $ (0.1 ) $ 1.4 $ 1.8 $ (0.4 ) Interest Expense Interest expense for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011 was $4 thousand and $14 thousand, respectively, compared to $21 thousand and $66 thousand for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, respectively. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2011 was $(0.1) million and $0.3 million, respectively, compared to $(0.4) million and $(1.3) million for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2010, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (in millions) October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change October 1, 2011 October 2, 2010 Change Provision for income taxes $ 3.0 $ 1.2 $ 1.8 $ 13.9 $ 15.8 $ (1.9 ) Effective tax rate 20.9 % 6.4 % 38.0 % 20.7 % The effective tax rate for the three months ended October 1, 2011 increased from the prior period, primarily due to non-recurring benefits reflected in the prior period effective tax rate, including a reduction to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest accrual as well as tax return adjustments, partially offset by an increase in the research and development tax credit in the current period. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended October 1, 2011 increased from the prior period, primarily due to the tax charge related to the intercompany license of certain technology obtained in the acquisition of Spectra Linear and other one-time nondeductible costs associated with the acquisition of Spectra Linear recorded in the first quarter of 2011, as well as a decrease in the foreign tax rate benefit. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the research and development tax credit. The effective tax rates for each of the periods presented differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% due to the amount of income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the tax rate may be lower than the federal statutory rate, research and development tax credits and other permanent items including changes to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Business Outlook We expect revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to be in the range of up 3% to down 3% sequentially. Furthermore, we expect our diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.21 to $0.27. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity as of October 1, 2011 consisted of $283.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consist of corporate bonds, market funds, municipal bonds, variable-rate demand notes, U.S. government agency bonds, U.S. Treasury bills, international government bonds, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and commercial paper. 29 Table of Contents Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities. Early in fiscal 2008, auctions for many of our auction-rate securities failed because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As of October 1, 2011, we held $19.3 million par value auction-rate securities, all of which have experienced failed auctions. These securities have contractual maturity dates ranging from 2029 to 2046. We are receiving the underlying cash flows on all of our auction-rate securities. The principal amounts associated with failed auctions are not expected to be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the security, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities mature. We are unable to predict if these funds will become available before their maturity dates. We do not expect to need access to the capital represented by any of our auction-rate securities prior to their maturities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $65.6 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2011, compared to net cash provided of $83.5 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. Operating cash flows during the nine months ended October 1, 2011 reflect our net income of $22.7 million, adjustments of $48.1 million for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation and deferred income taxes, and a net cash outflow of $5.2 million due to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable increased to $58.4 million at October 1, 2011 from $45.0 million at January 1, 2011. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from (a) a larger portion of the shipments occurring in the second half of the quarter ended October 1, 2011 in contrast to the more linear shipments that occurred during the last quarter of fiscal 2010, and (b) an increase in shipments during the quarter ended October 1, 2011 compared to the last quarter of fiscal 2010. Our average days sales outstanding (DSO) was 44 days at October 1, 2011 and 36 days at January 1, 2011. Inventory decreased to $38.4 million at October 1, 2011 from $39.4 million at January 1, 2011. Our inventory level is primarily impacted by our need to make purchase commitments to support forecasted demand and variations between forecasted and actual demand. Our average days of inventory (DOI) was 75 days at October 1, 2011 and 87 days at January 1, 2011. Net cash provided by investing activities was $16.9 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2011, compared to net cash used of $48.3 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. The increase in cash inflows was principally due to an increase of $68.4 million in net inflows for sales and maturities of investments. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $10 to $15 million for fiscal 2011. Additionally, as part of our growth strategy, we expect to evaluate opportunities to invest in or acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement or expand our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Net cash used in financing activities was $112.8 million during the nine months ended October 1, 2011, compared to net cash used of $123.3 million during the nine months ended October 2, 2010. The decrease in cash outflows was principally due to a decrease of $30.3 million for repurchases of our common stock, offset by decrease of $12.7 million from proceeds from the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes and a payment of $7.2 million on debt acquired in the acquisition of Spectra Linear. In July 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $150 million of our common stock prior to the end of 2011. The program was completed in August 2011. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our existing cash and investment balances are sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. We may enter into acquisitions or strategic arrangements in the future which also could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Changes in facts and circumstances could have a significant impact on the resulting estimated amounts included in the financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more complex judgments and estimates. We also have other policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of revenues on sales to distributors; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Inventory valuation We assess the recoverability of inventories through the application of a set of methods, assumptions and estimates. In determining net realizable value, we write down inventory that may be slow moving or have some form of obsolescence, including inventory that has aged more than 12 months. We also adjust the valuation of inventory when its standard cost exceeds the estimated market value. We assess the potential for any unusual customer returns based on known quality or business issues and write-off inventory losses for scrap or non-saleable material. Inventory not otherwise identified to be written down is compared to an assessment of our 12-month forecasted demand. The result of this methodology is compared against the product life cycle and competitive situations in the marketplace to determine the appropriateness of the resulting inventory levels. Demand for our products may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than those that we project. In the event that actual demand is lower or market conditions are worse than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Stock-based compensation We recognize the fair-value of stock-based compensation transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The fair value of our full-value stock awards equals the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. The fair value of our stock option and Employee Stock Purchase Plan grants is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate of our stock grants and only recognize the expense for those shares expected to vest. If our actual experience differs significantly from the assumptions used to compute our stock-based compensation cost, or if different assumptions had been used, we may have recorded too much or too little stock-based compensation cost. See Note 9, Stock-Based Compensation , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Investments in auction-rate securities We determine the fair value of our investments in auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, amount of cash flows, expected holding periods of the securities and a discount to reflect our inability to liquidate the securities. For available-for-sale auction-rate securities, if the calculated value is below the carrying amount of the securities, we then determine if the decline in value is other-than-temporary. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, changes in underlying credit ratings, forecasted recovery, our intent to sell or the likelihood that we would be required to sell the investment before its anticipated recovery in market value and the probability that the scheduled cash payments will continue to be made. When we conclude that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, we assess whether we intend to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. If either of these two conditions is met, we recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the securitys amortized cost basis and its fair value. If we do not intend to sell a security or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss. 31 Table of Contents Acquired intangible assets When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is typically allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as acquired technology and customer relationships. Fair value of these assets is determined primarily using the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate. We amortize intangible assets with finite lives over their expected useful lives. Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Incorrect estimates could result in future impairment charges, and those charges could be material to our results of operations. Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets We review long-lived assets which are held and used, including fixed assets and purchased intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such evaluations compare the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset over its expected useful life and are significantly impacted by estimates of future prices and volumes for our products, capital needs, economic trends and other factors which are inherently difficult to forecast. If the asset is considered to be impaired, we record an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique. We test our goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the impairment analysis compares our fair value to our net book value. In determining fair value, the accounting guidance allows for the use of several valuation methodologies, although it states quoted market prices are the best evidence of fair value. If the fair value is less than the net book value, the second step of the analysis compares the implied fair value of our goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to that excess amount. Income taxes We are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating the actual current tax liability together with assessing temporary differences in recognition of income (loss) for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We then assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step requires us to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that the tax position has met the threshold for recognition; therefore, we must evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step requires us to measure the tax benefit of the tax position taken, or expected to be taken, in an income tax return as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently complex and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate the uncertain tax positions each quarter based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, expirations of statutes of limitation, effectively settled issues under audit, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Although we believe the measurement of our liabilities for uncertain tax positions is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not be different than what is reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, it could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We operate within multiple taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues which may require an extended period of time to resolve and could result in additional assessments of income tax. We believe adequate provisions for income taxes have been made for all periods. 32 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) Testing Goodwill for Impairment . ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then it is required to perform the two-step impairment test. If an entity concludes otherwise, then the two-step impairment test is not required. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Presentation of Comprehensive Income . This ASU requires that all non-owner changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income, and the total of comprehensive income. ASU 2011-05 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. This ASU provides a consistent definition of fair value between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Additionally, the ASU changes certain fair value measurement principles and expands the disclosures for fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied prospectively. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.