ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included under Part I, Item 1 in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 included in the 2024 Form 10-K. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions set forth in our 2024 Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q titled Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words including, but not limited to, may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, forecast, "likely," "potential," "seek," or the negatives of such terms and similar expressions. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Overview We are a provider of technology computer aided design (TCAD) software, electronic data automation (EDA) software and semiconductor intellectual property (SIP). TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions enable semiconductor and photonics companies to increase productivity, accelerate their products time-to-market and reduce their development and manufacturing costs. We have decades of expertise developing the technology behind the chip and providing solutions that span from atoms to systems, starting with providing software for the atomic level simulation of semiconductor and photonics material for devices, to providing software and SIP for the design and analysis of circuits and system level solutions. We provide SIP for system-on-a-chip (SoC) and integrated circuits (ICs), and SIP management tools to enable team collaborations on complex SoC designs. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and design teams who deploy our solutions in production flows across our target markets, including display, power devices, automotive, memory, high performance computing (HPC), internet of things (IoT) and 5G/6G mobile markets. EDA offerings, including our solutions, enable companies to streamline their IC design workflows, develop complex IC designs in a cost-efficient manner, and maintain acceptable IC manufacturing yield, by providing interoperable tools that capture and simulate designs from concept to analysis. Our TCAD device and process simulation tools provide compatible data structures that can be used with our EDA modeling, analysis, simulation, verification and yield enhancement tools. Further, our EDA tools are used for designing SIP and IC designs that can be managed and validated by our SIP management tools. Our go-to-market strategy centers on selling software solutions and associated maintenance and services. Our software solutions accounted for 71% and 77% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Associated maintenance and services revenue accounted for 29% and 23% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, approximately 76% and 88% of our bookings came from existing customers, respectively, and the remainder came from new customers. See Key Operating Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresBookings for a description of how we define bookings. Similar to trends observed across the semiconductor industry, we saw a decline in orders from Asia during the three months ended March 31, 2025 primarily driven by economic challenges and the ongoing strain in U.S.-China trade relations. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, our bookings were $13.7 million as compared to $16.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our revenue was $14.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Recent Acquisitions On March 4, 2025, we consummated an asset purchase agreement with Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (Cadence), pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities comprising Cadences Process Proximity Compensation product line, an optical proximity correction (OPC) suite of tools, in exchange for $11.5 million in cash. On April 29, 2025, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Stock Purchase Agreement) with the shareholders of Tech-X Corporation (the Sellers) pursuant to which we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tech-X Corporation for an aggregate purchase price of $5.0 million, payable in cash and shares of the Company. The Stock Purchase Agreement also provides that the Sellers may receive up to $2.0 million in contingent consideration upon achieving certain research and development milestones. Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations and Future Performance Current Economic Conditions Worldwide economic and political uncertainties and negative trends, including financial and credit market fluctuations, tariffs and increasing trade protectionism, interest rates, inflation and other impacts from the macroeconomic environment may continue to adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We continue to monitor the direct and indirect impacts of these circumstances, particularly with respect to the broader implications of the uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.S. and its trading partners, including with respect to the trade policies and agreements, treaties, government regulations and tariffs that could apply to trade between the U.S. and other nations. The imposition of tariffs and political tensions as a result of trade policies, including with respect to China in particular, and the impact of worsening macroeconomic conditions and political events on our business, results of operations and overall financial position, remain uncertain. We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors including those described above and elsewhere in this quarterly report and those described below. While the factors set forth below present significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. The growth of our business and our future success are also subject to uncertainties and risks as described in Part II, Item 1.A., Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Relationships with Our Existing Customers Building long-term relationships with our existing customer base is critical in driving renewals for our licenses and overall revenue growth. We have a global sales force selling to semiconductor companies and engineering universities that also instruct fabrication facility managers and the next generation of chip designers on the use and benefits of our design tools. Most of our customers enter into multi-year software license agreements for a fixed price including a multi-year software license and maintenance and services. When we renew expiring contracts with our customers, we may increase our bookings by selling them additional or new software or SIP. Over time, we expect that existing customers will choose to upgrade and/or purchase additional products, particularly as we de-emphasize our lower margin products, which we expect will over the long term drive margin expansion. Our ability to continue to generate sales from our existing customers and to expand those relationships is dependent on our ability to continue to offer software solutions that our existing customers demand. Any failure to continue to generate sales with our existing customers or expand our product and service offerings with our existing customers may have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We enter into standard software licensing agreements with each of our customers. Pursuant to these agreements, we grant our customers a non-exclusive, non-transferable limited license, without the right to sublicense, to execute, use and operate certain software. Each party has the right to terminate the software license agreement under certain circumstances, in which event the customer will be required to remove, delete and return all software, related documentation and confidential information furnished under the license agreement. Our Ability to Expand Our Product Offerings To meet the increasing complexity of semiconductor designs, the introduction of new advanced materials, and the increased costs associated with more advanced semiconductor technology nodes, we will need to continually enhance our product offerings through our own in-house research and development efforts, acquisitions, or strategic partnerships with third parties. The in-house development of new product offerings or enhancements to our existing product offerings requires significant research and development activities and time and may or may not result in offerings we can successfully market and sell to customers. For example, we have developed an artificial intelligence (AI), -based solution named fab technology co-optimization or FTCOTM for wafer level fabrication facilities. FTCO utilizes manufacturing data to perform statistical and physics-based machine learning software simulations to create a computer model of a wafer, which we call the digital twin of the wafer, in order to simulate the fabrication of wafers. We may also seek to acquire companies or assets for products or solutions which we believe are complementary to our existing products or solutions. Additionally, we currently, and have in the past, and may in the future, partner with third parties to expand our product offerings to our customers. If in the future, we enter into additional licensing agreements with other third parties and are unable to extend the term of those licensing arrangements, we will experience an associated decline in revenue relating to those products. Our Ability to Expand into New Markets and Applications and Expansion of our Existing Markets We believe that trends in the global EDA software market, including growth in the integrated circuits and electronics manufacturing markets, growing complexity of semiconductor and photonics designs, and increasing challenges associated with advanced materials and shrinking process technology nodes across the EDA market, will increase the demand for our software solutions over time, which will have a direct impact on our future revenues and results of operations. In response to this increase in complexity and new challenges facing designers, we have increased investments in our research and development for new software product offerings. For example, our research and development expense was 34% and 23% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We plan to continue to invest in our software solutions to establish and expand a leadership position in our target markets. We also plan to use our research and development efforts to continue to cater to strategic customer needs. The drive to increase performance and diversification of applications is further accelerated by a broad-scale transition to cloud-based software applications and computing on mobile platforms. The development of semiconductors that are optimized for specific applications, including AI, 5G/6G communications and IoT, has continued to fuel demand for TCAD and EDA software tools, which in turn fuels demand to develop solutions to meet our markets evolving needs. Our ability to successfully generate customer demand amongst new customers and in new markets is dependent on our ability to educate these customers and markets about our software solutions and our ability to generate sufficient new solutions that solve problems for these potential customers. Our ability to continue to expand our product offerings into new markets also requires that we direct our research and development efforts toward value-generating new and existing initiatives. Our future revenues and results of operations will be directly impacted by our ability to produce and provide new software solutions in new and expanding markets. Our Ability to Successfully Identify, Complete and Integrate Acquisitions Our success depends in part on our ability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. Our goal for future potential acquisitions is to pursue acquisitions that will increase our competitiveness in our markets and increase our bookings and revenue. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions will depend on a number of factors, including access to adequate capital, potential competition for the assets, and technology fit. When we engage in mergers and acquisitions, we aim to retain the customers of our acquired companies due to our expanded offerings or improved services. As a result, acquiring target companies is a key part of our growth strategy and may allow us to access and serve a broader range of customers, which ultimately may lead to more bookings, increased revenue growth and expansion in our market share presence. Our Ability to Calibrate Our Product Mix to Enhance Margin Expansion We anticipate that our results will be impacted by the increase or decrease of a given product or service as a percentage of total revenue relative to our other products and services. As higher margin products become a larger part of our product mix, or conversely as low margin products become a smaller part of our product mix, our gross margin will expand. While we may enter into agreements with third parties for lower margin product solutions, we anticipate our focus on higher margin solutions will continue to lead our other products and services within our product mix, which we anticipate may lead to gross margin and operating margin expansion. Our future ability to shape our product mix with higher margin products making up a larger percentage of our total revenue will impact our results of operations. Our Ability to Scale While Mitigating Increases in Expenses If we can execute on our growth strategy and grow our revenue through a combination of new customer growth, upgrades and increased usage of our products by existing customers, as well as accretive acquisitions, our results will be impacted by our ability to reduce the rate at which our expenses increase in proportion with a rise in revenue. We believe this is possible in a number of expense line items, which may provide for additional gross margin and operating margin expansion. For example, we anticipate as our existing customers choose to upgrade to newer software solutions, our costs related to the support of legacy software decreases, outpacing any increases in cost related to supporting the upgraded software. Additionally, we have incurred increased general and administrative expenses in connection with preparing to become a public company, including increased staff costs and professional services fees, including legal and accounting fees. We have also incurred a significant increase in stock-based compensation expense. While we anticipate the increased level of costs to remain, we do not anticipate those costs scaling proportionally with our revenue. Finally, we may be able to gain sales efficiencies as our revenue grows, such that our sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenue. In the aggregate, our ability to keep these expenses from growing proportionally with our revenue may provide for meaningful gross margin and operating margin expansion. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue is derived from software licensing and maintenance and services. Our customer agreements include combinations of licensed software and maintenance and services, which are accounted for as separate performance obligations with differing revenue recognition patterns. Software License Revenue Revenue from our software licenses is classified as software license revenue. Software license revenue is recognized upfront upon delivery of the licensed product. We also offer licenses of our standard SIP developed in house, and we offer licenses developed in partnership with NXP Semiconductors Netherlands B.V. (NXP) (the NXP IP). Our SIP licenses provide customers with access to SoC design SIP which meet established industry standards, thus saving customers the time and resources required to develop similar design methodologies. Our standard SIPs are generally ready to use upon delivery, meaning no customization is required for our customers to obtain value from the use of our SIP in their IC designs. We recognize revenue associated with licenses of our SIP at the commencement of the contract upon delivery of the licensed SIP. With respect to the NXP IP, we generally act as a principal to the transaction because we have a license to sell, and therefore control the NXP IP that we deliver to the customer. Consistent with our role as the principal, we recognize SIP revenue of the NXP IP on a gross basis. Any royalty fees based upon unit sales, revenue or flat fees which were paid to NXP were reported in cost of revenue upon delivery pursuant to the terms and conditions of our contractual obligations with the customers. Under certain SIP license agreements, we can also derive revenue through royalties from customers who agree to pay usage-based fees to embed our SIP into their own software offerings. Revenue under SIP royalty agreements is generally recognized during the period in which the customer sells its solutions which incorporate our SIP. Maintenance and Service Revenue Typically, our software solutions are sold with post-contract support (PCS), which includes unspecified technical enhancements and customer support. PCS is classified as maintenance and service revenue and is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, as we satisfy the PCS performance obligation over time. We also recognized an immaterial portion of our revenue from device characterization and modeling services for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024. Revenue is recognized upon the completion of the requested services and, as applicable, satisfaction of customer acceptance terms. Revenue from these services is classified as maintenance and service revenue. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue consists of personnel costs comprised of salaries and benefits for employees directly involved in our customer support function, such as customer support engineering salary and benefits, costs of our other customer services, allocation of overhead and facility costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and royalties related to the recognized revenue. We recognized $0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025. We also recognized $0.2 million of amortization associated with our acquired intangible assets in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling and marketing, general and administrative expenses, and estimated litigation claim. Related personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation expense, bonuses and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, costs of facilities, information technology, depreciation and amortization. We expect our operating expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue over time. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recognized $2.1 million in total stock-based compensation expense. Of the total stock-based compensation expense recorded, we recognized approximately $1.5 million, $0.2 million, and $0.3 million in general and administrative expense, research and development expense, and selling and marketing expense, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Research and Development Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs comprised of salaries, stock-based compensation expense, and benefits for employees directly involved in our research and development efforts, as well as engineering, quality assessment, other related costs associated with the development of new products, enhancements to existing products, quality assurance and testing and allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our software solutions and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expense consists of personnel costs comprised of salaries, stock-based compensation expense, benefits, sales commissions, travel costs, and field application engineering directly involved in our selling and marketing efforts, as well as professional and consulting fees, advertising expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect selling and marketing expense to continue to increase as we increase our sales and marketing personnel and grow our international operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs associated with our executive, legal, finance, human resources, information technology and other administrative functions, including salaries, stock-based compensation expense, benefits and bonuses. General and administrative expense also includes professional and consulting fees, accounting fees, legal costs, and allocated overhead costs. We expect general and administrative expense to increase as we expand our finance and administrative personnel, grow our operations, and incur additional expense associated with operating as a public company, including director and officer liability insurance and legal and compliance costs, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Estimated litigation claim Estimated litigation claim expense consists of legal costs that became probable and reasonably estimable associated with our obligations with respect to the earnout payment due to the selling shareholders of Nangate, Inc. (Nangate), along with a third cross complainant (collectively, the Nangate Parties). On July 23, 2024, a jury awarded the Nangate Parties $11.3 million in damages under breach of contract related claims, including breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and court and litigation related costs and certain expert expenses subject to the Nangate Parties establishing the legal right to them and to be determined by the court (the Contract Damages). As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2024, we recorded a charge to estimated litigation claim and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $11.3 million for the Contract Damages awarded to the Nangate Parties. The jury also found Silvaco and our board of directors (the Co-Defendants) liable for certain of the fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation claims and awarded the Nangate Parties $6.6 million. Incremental punitive damages relating to these claims, including $17.0 million payable by Silvaco and a total of $16.0 million to be paid by the Co-Defendants, were awarded following a hearing on August 16, 2024 (collectively, the Fraud Damages). The Nangate Parties have the option to choose either the Contract Damages or the Fraud Damages, but in no circumstances will the Nangate Parties receive both remedies. The parties have reached preliminary agreement on key terms of a potential settlement, subject to negotiation and execution of a settlement agreement. In connection with the potential settlement, we recorded a charge to estimated litigation claim and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We can give no assurance that a settlement will be finalized. If a settlement is not finalized, we and the Co-Defendants can appeal the judgement, which will require us to collateralize and post an appellate bond of up to $35.4 million. We believe we have strong grounds for appeal and are pursuing post-trial motions. Additionally, we believe that there are strong arguments in support of substantially reducing the punitive damages portion of the Fraud Damages, which we believe are excessive under California Law, and the United States and California constitutions, particularly given the disproportionate nature of the punitive damages relative to the compensatory damages. See Note 11 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Interest Income Interest income includes interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and accretion of the purchase discounts on our marketable securities balances. Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net includes interest expense associated with cost of borrowings, leases or interest-bearing agreements, foreign exchange gains and losses and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration associated with legacy acquisitions. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision is our estimate of current tax expense incurred from the consolidated results of operations globally. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change (in thousands) Revenue: Software license revenue $ 10,009 $ 12,258 (18) % Maintenance and service 4,083 3,631 12 % Total revenue 14,092 15,889 (11) % Cost of revenue 3,016 1,973 53 % Gross profit 11,076 13,916 (20) % Operating expenses: Research and development 4,800 3,616 33 % Selling and marketing 4,719 3,312 42 % General and administrative 8,120 4,600 77 % Estimated litigation claim 13,069 100 % Total operating expenses 30,708 11,528 166 % Operating (loss) income (19,632) 2,388 (922) % Interest income 863 100 % Interest and other expense, net (291) (205) 42 % (Loss) income before income tax provision (19,060) 2,183 (973) % Income tax provision 213 805 (74) % Net (loss) income $ (19,273) $ 1,378 (1,499) % The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue: Software license revenue 71 % 77 % Maintenance and service 29 % 23 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 21 % 12 % Gross profit 79 % 88 % Operating expenses: Research and development 34 % 23 % Selling and marketing 33 % 21 % General and administrative 58 % 29 % Estimated litigation claim 93 % % Total operating expenses 218 % 73 % Operating (loss) income (139) % 15 % Interest income 6 % % Interest and other expense, net (2) % (1) % (Loss) income before income tax provision (135) % 14 % Income tax provision 2 % 5 % Net (loss) income (137) % 9 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue: (in thousands) Software license revenue $ 10,009 $ 12,258 Maintenance and service 4,083 3,631 Total revenue $ 14,092 $ 15,889 Total revenue decreased by $1.8 million, or 11%, to $14.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 is primarily due to softening demand in the Americas, economic challenges in Asia, and the ongoing strain in U.S.-China trade relations. Revenue associated with our TCAD tools decreased by $2.7 million. This decrease was partially offset by revenue derived from our EDA tools and IP sales which increased by $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Software license revenue decreased by $2.2 million, or 18%, to $10.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $12.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Maintenance and service revenue increased by $0.5 million, or 12%, to $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Gross Profit Gross profit decreased by $2.8 million, or 20%, to $11.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from $13.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to a decline in orders from Asia and the Americas. Gross profit margin decreased to 79% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 88% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was also attributable to $0.3 million of non-cash amortization associated with our acquired intangible assets, $0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense, and an increase in our allocation of labor time and effort dedicated to cost of sales. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Operating expenses Research and development $ 4,800 $ 3,616 Selling and marketing 4,719 3,312 General and administrative 8,120 4,600 Estimated litigation claim 13,069 Total operating expenses $ 30,708 $ 11,528 Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $4.8 million and $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase of $1.2 million, or 33%, was primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in employee compensation and benefits due to increased headcount, merit increases, and payroll tax, a $0.3 million increase in software maintenance expense and $0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses were $4.7 million and $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase of $1.4 million, or 42%, was primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in employee compensation and benefits due to increased headcount, merit increases, and payroll tax, and $0.3 million of stock-based compensation expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2025. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $8.1 million and $4.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase of $3.5 million, or 77%, was primarily due to $1.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, a $0.7 million increase in acquisition-related legal fees, a $0.7 million increase in employee compensation and benefits due to increased headcount, merit increases, and payroll tax, a $0.4 million increase in professional consulting fees, and a $0.2 million increase in corporate insurance recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Estimated Litigation Claim Estimated litigation claim was $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. In connection with a potential settlement, we recorded a charge to estimated litigation claim and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. See Note 11 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Interest Income Interest income reflects interest earned and accretion on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net, was $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase of $0.1 million was primarily due to a $0.1 million increase in foreign exchange losses recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2025. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision was $0.2 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. See Note 9 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Key Operating Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use the followingkey performance indicators and non-GAAP financial measures to analyze our business performance and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans which we believe provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team. These key performance indicators and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. Bookings We define a booking as a signed contract and related purchase commitment from a customer, based on the value set forth in a purchase order. We believe bookings are a useful metric to measure the success of customer sales and provide an indication of trends in our operating results that are not necessarily reflected in our revenue, because our revenue recognition is based on the satisfaction of our customer obligations, and not of the successful execution of a booking at the time of sale. Reported bookings may be subject to adjustments and potential cancellations prior to the satisfaction of our customer obligations. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recorded $13.7 million in bookings as compared to $16.1 million in bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The following table sets forth our bookings for each of the three month periods during the trailing five quarters as of March 31, 2025. Three Months Ended Mar 31, 2025 Dec 31, 2024 Sep 30, 2024 Jun 30, 2024 Mar 31, 2024 (in thousands) Bookings $ 13,681 $ 20,310 $ 9,875 $ 19,478 $ 16,112 Non-GAAP Operating (Loss) Income and Non-GAAP Net (Loss) Income We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, our management believes that non-GAAP operating (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income provide investors with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. These financial measures are not required by or presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe, however, that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating performance and facilitate internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook and provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business performance. We define non-GAAP operating income as our GAAP operating (loss) income adjusted to exclude certain costs, including initial public offering (IPO) preparation costs, acquisition-related estimated litigation claim and legal costs, acquisition-related professional fees and retention bonus, stock-based compensation expense, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We define non-GAAP net (loss) income as our GAAP net (loss) income adjusted to exclude certain costs, including IPO preparation costs, acquisition-related estimated litigation claim and legal costs, acquisition-related professional fees and retention bonus, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, change in fair value of contingent consideration, foreign exchange (gain) loss, and the income tax effect on non-GAAP items. We monitor non-GAAP operating (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income as non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information we present in accordance with GAAP to provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results. Certain items are excluded from our non-GAAP operating (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income because these items are non-cash in nature or management believes they are not indicative of our core operating performance and render comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We adjust GAAP operating (loss) income and net (loss) income for these items to arrive at non-GAAP operating (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income because these amounts can vary substantially from company to company within our industry depending upon accounting methods and book values of assets, capital structure and the method by which the assets were acquired. By excluding items that may not be indicative of our recurring core operating results, we believe that non-GAAP operating (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. The following table reconciles operating (loss) income to non-GAAP operating (loss) income. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Operating (loss) income $ (19,632) $ 2,388 Add: Acquisition-related estimated litigation claim and legal costs(1) 13,795 594 Acquisition-related professional fees and retention bonus(2) 703 Amortization of acquired intangible assets(3) 362 70 IPO preparation costs(4) 266 Stock-based compensation expense 2,277 Non-GAAP operating (loss) income $ (2,495) $ 3,318 The following table reconciles net (loss) income to non-GAAP net (loss) income. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Net (loss) income $ (19,273) $ 1,378 Add: Acquisition-related estimated litigation claim and legal costs(1) 13,795 594 Acquisition-related professional fees and retention bonus(2) 703 Amortization of acquired intangible assets(3) 362 70 IPO preparation costs(4) 266 Stock-based compensation expense 2,277 Change in fair value of contingent consideration(5) 35 (8) Foreign exchange loss 205 130 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments(6) (5) (33) Non-GAAP net (loss) income $ (1,901) $ 2,397 (1)Reflects litigation-related expenses incurred in connection with our acquisitions and the Nangate estimated litigation claim accrual. (2)Reflects acquisition-related professional fees and retention bonuses related to acquisitions of the OPC business and other potential acquisitions. (3)Reflects the amortization of intangible assets attributable to our acquisitions and the NXP IP. (4)Reflects one-time costs including third-party professional services fees and costs incurred in connection with, and in preparation for, the IPO. Such costs do not include those costs that were considered direct and incremental to the IPO and therefore capitalized as deferred transaction costs. (5)Includes the change in fair value of contingent consideration recorded in connection with our acquisitions. (6)Reflects the increase in income tax expenses due to non-GAAP adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from payments from our customers, borrowings from Ms. Ngai-Pesic and other lenders, and the net proceeds from the sale of our common stock in the IPO. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities including cash generated from operations. As of March 31, 2025, we had $29.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $6.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries, and $45.0 million in short-term marketable securities. In December 2023, we entered into a loan facility with East West Bank (the East West Bank Loan) which provides for borrowings of up to $5.0 million bearing interest at a per annum rate equal to one half of one percent (0.5%) above the greater of (i) the prime rate as reported in The Wall Street Journal or (ii) four and one half percent (4.5%). We drew $4.3 million on the East West Bank Loan during the three months ended March 31, 2024. In May 2024, the East West Bank Loan was repaid in full and terminated. On April 11, 2024, we amended and restated our license agreement with NXP, pursuant to which we recorded an associated vendor financing obligation. The vendor financing obligation was $4.2 million as of March 31, 2025. We determined that the vendor financing obligation had an imputed interest rate of 9%, which is reflective of our borrowing rate with similar terms to that of the license agreement. On April 16, 2024, we entered into a note purchase agreement with Micron Technology, Inc. (Micron), a customer of the Company, pursuant to which we issued a senior subordinated convertible promissory note (the Micron Note) in the principal amount of $5.0 million. The Micron Note accrued interest at a rate of 8% per annum with principal and interest due upon maturity three years after the date of issuance. On May 13, 2024, the Micron Note was converted into 294,217 shares of our common stock in connection with the consummation of the IPO. On May 13, 2024, we sold 6,000,000 shares of common stock in the IPO at a price to the public of $19.00 per share. The gross proceeds from the IPO were $114.0 million, with $106.0 million funded to us after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $8.0 million. We believe our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, which include proceeds received in connection with the IPO and the $5.0 million received in connection with the Micron Note will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures, financial commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations for at least the next 12 months. We currently have no committed sources of capital. If our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities including cash generated from operating activities are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may contain covenants that significantly restrict our operations or our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future. Any additional financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or our existing stockholders, or at all. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryOur ability to raise additional capital in the future may be limited and could prevent us from executing our growth strategy in Item 1A in Part II in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion As of March 31, 2025, $4.1 million, or 13.9%, of our cash and cash equivalents was maintained with one financial institution, where our current deposits are in excess of federally insured limits. Past macroeconomic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived financial distress of many financial institutions, including the 2023 failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank and the UBS takeover of Credit Suisse. If the financial institutions with whom we do business were to become distressed or placed into receivership, we may be unable to access the cash we have on deposit with such institutions. If we are unable to access our cash as needed, our financial position and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (1,135) $ (2,572) Investing activities 11,404 (10) Financing activities (503) 3,873 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 117 27 Net change in cash $ 9,883 $ 1,318 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors including the timing of our collections and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities primarily relate to personnel related costs, payments for professional services, office leases and related facilities costs, and software supporting our company infrastructure, among others. Our primary source of cash inflows is collections of our accounts receivable. The timing of invoices to our customers and subsequent collection is based on agreements executed and payment terms that can vary by customer. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $1.1 million compared to $2.6 million of net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The $1.5 million decrease in net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to a $6.9 million decrease in net working capital, primarily due to changes in contract assets and accounts receivable; partially offset by a $5.4 million decrease in net income, after excluding the non-cash effects of stock-based compensation expense, provision for credit losses, estimated litigation claim, change in fair value of contingent consideration, depreciation and amortization, and the accretion of discount on marketable securities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $11.4 million, as compared to $10,000 used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2025, includes $23.0 million of maturities in marketable securities, partially offset by cash paid to acquire OPC of $11.5 million and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we used $10,000 of cash to purchase property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $0.5 million, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $3.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Net cash used during the three months ended March 31, 2025 includes payroll taxes related to shares withheld from employees of $0.3 million and payments on our vendor financing obligation of $0.2 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 includes our $4.3 million drawdown on the East West Bank Loan, partially offset by the payment of $0.4 million of transaction costs incurred in connection with the IPO. Effects of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Cash and Cash Equivalents The effects of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents were $0.1 million and $27,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Contractual Obligations Our financial commitments for contractual obligations as of March 31, 2025, include our operating leases and our vendor financing obligation. Our operating leases include a current obligation of $0.6 million and a non-current obligation of $0.9 million. Our vendor financing obligation, as noted in Note 7 of our condensed consolidated financial statements, includes a current obligation of $1.2 million and a non-current obligation of $3.0 million. Estimated Litigation Claim On July 23, 2024, a jury awarded the Nangate Parties $11.3 million in damages under breach of contract related claims, including breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and court and litigation related costs and certain expert expenses subject to the Nangate Parties establishing the legal right to them and to be determined by the court (the Contract Damages). As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2024, we recorded a charge to estimated litigation claim and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $11.3 million for the Contract Damages awarded to the Nangate Parties. The jury also found Silvaco and our board of directors (the Co-Defendants) liable for certain of the fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation claims and awarded the Nangate Parties $6.6 million. Incremental punitive damages relating to these claims, including $17.0 million payable by Silvaco and a total of $16.0 million to be paid by the Co-Defendants, were awarded following a hearing on August 16, 2024 (collectively, the Fraud Damages). The Nangate Parties have the option to choose either the Contract Damages or the Fraud Damages, but in no circumstances will the Nangate Parties receive both remedies. The parties have reached preliminary agreement on key terms of a potential settlement, subject to negotiation and execution of a settlement agreement. In connection with the potential settlement, we recorded a charge to estimated litigation claim and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $13.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We can give no assurance that a settlement will be finalized. If a settlement is not finalized, we and the Co-Defendants can appeal the judgement, which will require us to collateralize and post an appellate bond of up to $35.4 million. We believe we have strong grounds for appeal and are pursuing post-trial motions. Additionally, we believe that there are strong arguments in support of substantially reducing the punitive damages portion of the Fraud Damages, which we believe are excessive under California Law, and the United States and California constitutions, particularly given the disproportionate nature of the punitive damages relative to the compensatory damages. See Note 11 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates There have not been any material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2025 to the methodology applied by management for critical accounting policies previously disclosed in our audited financial statements set forth in our 2024 Form 10-K. For further discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our 2024 Form 10-K.