ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. You should read the following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations together with our audited consolidated financial statements set forth in our the Companys final prospectus relating to the initial public offering, dated May 8, 2024 (the Prospectus), relating to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-278666), as amended (Registration Statement), filed with the SEC on May 10, 2024, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act). This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions set forth in our Registration Statement. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q titled Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words including, but not limited to, may, will, could, would, can, should, anticipate, expect, intend, believe, estimate, project, continue, forecast, "likely," "potential," "seek," or the negatives of such terms and similar expressions. The information included herein represents our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this filing. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see "Key Operating Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Overview We are a provider of TCAD software, EDA software and SIP. TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions enable semiconductor and photonics companies to increase productivity, accelerate their products time-to-market and reduce their development and manufacturing costs. We have decades of expertise developing the technology behind the chip and providing solutions that span from atoms to systems, starting with providing software for the atomic level simulation of semiconductor and photonics material for devices, to providing software and SIP for the design and analysis of circuits and system level solutions. We provide SIP for SoC and ICs, and SIP management tools to enable team collaborations on complex SoC designs. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers, OEMs and design teams who deploy our solutions in production flows across our target markets, including display, power devices, automotive, memory, HPC, IoT and 5G/6G mobile markets. EDA offerings, including our solutions, enable companies to streamline their IC design workflows, develop complex IC designs in a cost-efficient manner, and maintain acceptable IC manufacturing yield, by providing interoperable tools that capture and simulate designs from concept to analysis. Our TCAD device and process simulation tools provide compatible data structures that can be used with our EDA modeling, analysis, simulation, verification and yield enhancement tools. Further, our EDA tools are used for designing SIP and IC designs that can be managed and validated by our SIP management tools. Our go-to-market strategy centers on selling software solutions and associated maintenance and services. Our software solutions accounted for 77% and 75% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and associated maintenance and services accounted for 23% and 25% of our revenue the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, approximately 88% and 76% of our bookings came from existing customers, respectively, and 12% and 24% came from new customers, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we continued to experience an increase in bookings and revenue. Our bookings were $16.1 million and $15.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our revenue was $15.9 million and $14.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Key Factors Affecting our Results of Operations and Future Performance We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors including those described above under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this quarterly report and those described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Relationships with Our Existing Customers Building long-term relationships with our existing customer base is critical in driving renewals for our licenses and overall revenue growth. We have a global sales force selling to semiconductor companies and engineering universities which instruct the next generation of chip designers and fabrication facility managers on the use and benefits of our design tools. Most of our customers enter into multi-year software license agreements for a fixed price including a multi-year software license and maintenance and services. When we renew expiring contracts with our customers, we may increase our bookings by selling them additional or new software or SIP. Over time, we expect that existing customers will choose to upgrade and purchase additional products, particularly as we de-emphasize our lower margin products, which we expect will over the long term drive margin expansion. Our ability to continue to generate sales from our existing customers and to expand those relationships is dependent on our ability to continue to offer software solutions that our existing customers demand. Any failure to continue to generate sales with our existing customers or expand our product and service offerings with our existing customers may have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We enter into standard software licensing agreements with each of our customers. Pursuant to these agreements, we grant our customers a non-exclusive, non-transferable limited license, without the right to sublicense, to execute, use and operate certain software. Each party has the right to terminate the software license agreement under certain circumstances, in which event the customer will be required to remove, delete and return all software, related documentation and confidential information furnished under the license agreement. Our Ability to Expand Our Product Offerings To meet the increasing complexity of semiconductor designs, the introduction of new advanced materials, and the increased costs associated with more advanced semiconductor technology nodes, we will need to continually enhance our product offerings through our own in-house research and development efforts, acquisitions, or strategic partnerships with third parties. The in-house development of new product offerings or enhancements to our existing product offerings requires significant research and development activities and time and may or may not result in offerings we can successfully market and sell to customers. For example, we have developed an artificial intelligence-based solution named fab technology co-optimization or FTCOTM for wafer level fabrication facilities. FTCO utilizes manufacturing data to perform statistical and physics-based machine learning software simulations to create a computer model of a wafer, which we call the digital twin of the wafer, in order to simulate the fabrication of wafers. We may also seek to acquire companies or assets for products or solutions which we believe are complementary to our existing products or solutions. Additionally, we currently, and have in the past, and may in the future, partner with third parties to expand our product offerings to our customers. If in the future, we enter into additional licensing agreements with other third parties and are unable to extend the term of those licensing arrangements, we will experience an associated decline in revenue relating to those products. Our Ability to Expand into New Markets and Applications and Expansion of our Existing Markets According to Grand View Research, the global EDA software market was estimated to reach $11.1 billion in potential revenue in 2022 and is expected to reach $22.2 billion in potential revenue in 2030, representing a 9% CAGR, driven in part by the growth in the integrated circuits and electronics manufacturing markets, growing complexity of semiconductor and photonics designs and increasing challenges associated with advanced materials and shrinking process technology nodes across the EDA market. We believe these trends will increase the demand for our software solutions over time, which will have a direct impact on our future revenues and results of operations. In response to this increase in complexity and new challenges facing designers, we have increased investments in our research and development for new software product offerings. For example, our research and development expense was 23% and 24% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We plan to continue to invest in our software solutions to establish and expand a leadership position in our target markets. We also plan to use our research and development efforts to continue to cater to strategic customer needs. The drive to increase performance and diversification of applications is further accelerated by a broad-scale transition to cloud-based software applications and computing on mobile platforms. The development of semiconductors that are optimized for specific applications, including AI, 5G/6G communications and IoT, has continued to fuel demand for TCAD and EDA software tools, which in turn fuels demand to develop solutions to meet our markets evolving needs. Our ability to successfully generate customer demand amongst new customers and in new markets is dependent on our ability to educate these customers and markets about our software solutions and our ability to generate sufficient new solutions that solve problems for these potential customers. Our ability to continue to expand our product offerings into new markets also requires that we direct our research and development efforts toward value-generating new and existing initiatives. Our future revenues and results of operations will be directly impacted by our ability to produce and provide new software solutions in new and expanding markets. 20 Table of Contents Our Ability to Successfully Identify, Complete and Integrate Acquisitions Our success depends in part on our ability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. Our goal for future potential acquisition is to pursue acquisitions that will increase our competitiveness in our markets, and increase our bookings and revenue. Our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions will depend on a number of factors, including access to adequate capital, potential competition for the assets, and technology fit. When we engage in M&A, we aim to retain the customers of our acquired companies due to our expanded offerings or improved services. As a result, acquiring target companies is a key part of our growth strategy and may allow us to access and serve a broader range of customers, which ultimately may lead to more bookings, increased revenue growth and expansion in our market share presence. Our Ability to Calibrate Our Product Mix to Enhance Margin Expansion We anticipate that our results will be impacted by the increase or decrease of a given product or service as a percentage of total revenue relative to our other products and services. If and as higher margin products become a larger part of our product mix, or conversely as low margin products become a smaller part of our product mix, our gross margin will expand. While we may enter into agreements with third parties for lower margin product solutions, we anticipate our focus on higher margin solutions will continue to lead our other products and services within our product mix, which we anticipate may lead to gross margin and operating margin expansion. Our future ability to shape our product mix with higher margin products making up a larger percentage of our total revenue will impact our results of operations. Our Ability to Scale While Mitigating Increases in Expenses If we can execute on our growth strategy and grow our revenue through a combination of new customer growth, upgrades and increased usage of our products by existing customers, as well as accretive acquisitions, our results will be impacted by our ability to reduce the rate at which our expenses increase in proportion with a rise in revenue. We believe this is possible in a number of expense line items, which may provide for additional gross margin and operating margin expansion. For example, we anticipate as our existing customers choose to upgrade to newer software solutions, our costs related to the support of legacy software decreases, outpacing any increases in cost related to supporting the upgraded software. Additionally, we have incurred increased general and administrative expenses in connection with preparing to become a public company, including increased staff costs and professional services fees, including legal and accounting fees. While we anticipate the increased level of costs to remain, we do not anticipate those costs scaling proportionally with our revenue. Finally, we may be able to gain sales efficiencies as our revenue grows, such that our sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenue. In the aggregate, our ability to keep these expenses from growing proportionally with our revenue may provide for meaningful gross margin and operating margin expansion. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue is derived from software licensing and maintenance and services. Our customer agreements include combinations of licensed software and maintenance and services, which are accounted for as separate performance obligations with differing revenue recognition patterns. Software License Revenue Revenue from our software licenses is classified as software license revenue. Software license revenue is recognized upfront upon delivery of the licensed product. We also offer licenses of our standard SIP developed in house, and we offer licenses to our SIP developed in partnership with a third party vendor. Our SIP licenses provide customers with access to SoC design SIP which meet established industry standards, thus saving customers the time and resources required to develop similar design methodologies. Our SIP are generally ready to use upon delivery, meaning no customization is required for our customers to obtain value from the use of our SIP in their IC designs. We recognize revenue associated with licenses of our SIP at the commencement of the contract upon delivery of the licensed SIP. With respect to our SIP developed in partnership with a third party vendor, we generally acted as a principal to the transaction because we controlled the promised SIP that we delivered to the customer. Consistent with our role as the principal, we recognized SIP revenue of our SIP developed in partnership with the third party vendor on a gross basis. Any royalty fees based upon unit sales, revenue or flat fees which were paid to the third party vendor were reported in cost of revenue upon delivery pursuant to the terms and conditions of our contractual obligations with the licensors. Under certain SIP license agreements, we can also derive revenue through royalties from customers who agree to pay usage-based fees to embed our SIP into their own software offerings. Revenue under SIP royalty agreements is generally recognized during the period in which the customer sells its solutions which incorporate our SIP. 21 Table of Contents Maintenance and Service Revenue Typically, our software solutions are sold with post-contract support, or PCS, which includes unspecified technical enhancements and customer support. PCS is classified as maintenance revenue and is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, as we satisfy the PCS performance obligation over time. We also recognized an immaterial portion of our revenue from device characterization and modeling services for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Revenue is recognized upon the completion of the requested services and, as applicable, satisfaction of customer acceptance terms. Revenue from these services is classified as maintenance and service revenue. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue consists of personnel costs comprised of salaries and benefits for employees directly involved in our customer support function, such as customer support engineering salary and benefits, costs of our other customer services, allocation of overhead and facility costs and royalties related to the recognized revenue. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, selling and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, costs of facilities, information technology, depreciation and amortization. We expect our operating expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue over time. Historically, we have not recognized stock-based compensation, but we expect we will do so after the closing of our IPO. We expect that this expense will be a component of general and administrative expense, research and development expense, selling and marketing expense and cost of revenue, and any such amounts could be significant. As of March 31, 2024, we had $39.1 million in unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, of which $12.8 million relates to awards that have met the Time-Based Requirement but not the Liquidity Event Requirement, and the remaining $26.3 million in unrecognized stock-based compensation expense relates to awards that have not met either requirement. In the period in which the Liquidity Event Requirement is satisfied, we will record cumulative stock-based compensation expense for the service period through such date using the straight-line attribution method, net of actual forfeitures, based on the grant-date fair value of the RSU awards. Had the IPO, which is a qualifying Liquidity Event, occurred on March 31, 2024, the Time Based Requirement would have been accelerated, in accordance with their terms, for an additional 228,043 RSUs, and we would have recognized cumulative combined stock-based compensation expense of$16.5 millionfor active and former employees and service providers. Research and Development Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs comprised of salaries, benefits for employees directly involved in our research and development efforts, as well as engineering, quality assessment, other related costs associated with the development of new products, enhancements to existing products, quality assurance and testing and allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our software solutions and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expense consists of personnel costs comprised of salaries, benefits, sales commissions, travel costs, and field application engineering directly involved in our selling and marketing efforts, as well as professional and consulting fees, advertising expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect selling and marketing expense to continue to increase as we increase our sales and marketing personnel and grow our international operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of personnel costs associated with our executive, legal, finance, human resources, information technology and other administrative functions, including salaries, benefits and bonuses. General and administrative expense also includes professional and consulting fees, accounting fees, legal costs, and allocated overhead costs. We expect general and administrative expense to increase as we expand our finance and administrative personnel, grow our operations, and incur additional expense associated with operating as a public company, including director and officer liability insurance and legal and compliance costs, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. 22 Table of Contents Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net includes interest income earned on cash balances or other sources, interest expense associated with cost of borrowings, leases or interest-bearing agreements, foreign exchange gains and losses and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration associated with legacy acquisitions. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision is our estimate of current tax expense incurred from the consolidated results of operations globally. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change (in thousands) Revenue: Software license revenue $ 12,258 $ 10,665 15 % Maintenance and service 3,631 3,626 % Total revenue 15,889 14,291 11 % Cost of revenue 1,973 2,025 (3) % Gross profit 13,916 12,266 13 % Operating expenses: Research and development 3,616 3,375 7 % Selling and marketing 3,312 2,805 18 % General and administrative 4,600 4,553 1 % Total operating expenses 11,528 10,733 7 % Operating income 2,388 1,533 56 % Interest and other expense, net 205 331 (38) % Income before income tax provision 2,183 1,202 82 % Income tax provision 805 388 107 % Net income $ 1,378 $ 814 69 % 23 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue: Software license revenue 77 % 75 % Maintenance and service 23 % 25 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 12 % 14 % Gross profit 88 % 86 % Operating expenses: Research and development 23 % 24 % Selling and marketing 21 % 19 % General and administrative 29 % 32 % Total operating expenses 73 % 75 % Operating income 15 % 11 % Interest and other expense, net 1 % 2 % Income before income tax provision 14 % 8 % Income tax provision 5 % 3 % Net income 9 % 6 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenue: (in thousands) Software license revenue $ 12,258 $ 10,665 Maintenance and service 3,631 3,626 Total revenue $ 15,889 $ 14,291 Total revenue increased $1.6 million, or 11%, to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $14.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The growth in total revenue was driven primarily by a $2.4 million increase in sales revenue associated with our TCAD and EDA tools partially offset by a $0.7 million decline in revenue derived from IP sales, as a result of our intermittent lapse in our contractual arrangement with NXP. Software license revenue increased $1.6 million, or 15%, to $12.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $10.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. We recognized maintenance and service revenue of $3.6 million in each of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $1.6 million, or 13%, to $13.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $12.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Gross profit margin increased to 88% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from 86% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to the increase of TCAD and EDA tool sales partially offset by a decrease in IP sales. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Operating expenses Research and development $ 3,616 $ 3,375 Selling and marketing 3,312 2,805 General and administrative 4,600 4,553 Total operating expenses $ 11,528 $ 10,733 Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were$3.6 million and $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase of $0.2 million, or 7%, was primarily due to higher compensation of $0.2 million primarily related to merit increases when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses were $3.3 million and $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase of $0.5 million, or 18%, was primarily due to higher compensation of $0.3 million primarily related to increased headcount, and a $0.2 million increase in marketing related events during the three months ended March 31, 2024. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were$4.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, which was consistent as compared to $4.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net, was $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.Interest and other expense, net, includes interest income earned on cash balances or other sources, interest expense associated with cost of borrowings, leases or interest-bearing agreements, foreign exchange gains and losses and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration associated with legacy acquisitions. The decrease in interest and other expense, net, was primary the result of foreign exchange. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision was $0.8 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.See Note 9 of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 for further discussion. Key Operating Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use the followingkey performance indicators and non-GAAP financial measures to analyze our business performance and financial forecasts and to develop strategic plans which we believe provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations in the same manner as our management team. These key performance indicators and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. Bookings We define a booking as a signed contract and related purchase commitment from a customer, based on the value set forth in a purchase order. We believe bookings are a useful metric to measure the success of customer sales and provide an indication of trends in our operating results that are not necessarily reflected in our revenue, because our revenue recognition is based on the later satisfaction of our customer obligations, and not of the sales to customers at the time of sale. Reported bookings may be subject to adjustments and potential cancellations prior to the satisfaction of our customer obligations. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we recorded $16.1 million and $15.7 million in bookings, respectively. 25 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our bookings for each of the three month periods during the trailing five quarters as of March 31, 2024. Three Months Ended Mar 31, 2024 Dec 31, 2023 Sep 30, 2023 Jun 30, 2023 Mar 31, 2023 Bookings $ 16,112 $ 15,565 $ 12,487 $ 14,362 $ 15,667 Non-GAAP Operating Income and Non-GAAP Net Income We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP. However, our management believes that non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP net income provide investors with additional useful information in evaluating our performance. These financial measures are not required by or presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe, however, that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating performance and facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook and provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business performance. We define non-GAAP operating income (loss) as our GAAP operating income (loss) adjusted to exclude certain costs, including certain transaction-related costs, IPO preparation costs, acquisition-related litigation costs, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, impairment charges, and executive severance costs. We define non-GAAP net income (loss) as our GAAP net income (loss) adjusted to exclude certain costs, including certain transaction-related costs, IPO preparation costs, acquisition-related litigation costs, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, impairment charges, executive severance costs, change in fair value of contingent consideration, foreign exchange (gain) loss, gain on extinguishment of debt, and the income tax effect on non-GAAP items. We monitor non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) as non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information we present in accordance with GAAP to provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results. Certain items are excluded from our non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) because these items are non-cash in nature or are not indicative of our core operating performance and render comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We adjust GAAP operating income (loss) and net income (loss) for these items to arrive at non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) because these amounts can vary substantially from company to company within our industry depending upon accounting methods and book values of assets, capital structure and the method by which the assets were acquired. By excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our recurring core operating results, we believe that non-GAAP operating income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance. The following table reconciles operating income to non-GAAP operating income. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Operating income $ 2,388 $ 1,533 Add: Acquisition-related litigation costs(1) 594 236 Amortization of acquired intangible assets(2) 70 101 IPO preparation costs(3) 266 268 Non-GAAP operating income $ 3,318 $ 2,138 26 Table of Contents The following table reconciles net income to non-GAAP net income. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net income $ 1,378 $ 814 Add: Acquisition-related litigation costs(1) 594 236 Amortization of acquired intangible assets(2) 70 101 IPO preparation costs(3) 266 268 Change in fair value of contingent consideration(4) (8) 276 Foreign exchange loss 130 247 Income tax effect of non-GAAP adjustments(5) (33) (23) Non-GAAP net income $ 2,397 $ 1,919 (1)Reflects litigation-related expenses incurred in connection with our acquisitions. (2)Reflects the amortization of intangible assets attributable to our acquisitions. (3)Reflects one-time costs including third-party professional services fees and costs incurred in connection with, and in preparation for, the IPO. Such costs do not include those costs that were considered direct and incremental to the IPO and therefore capitalized as deferred transaction costs. (4)Includes the change in fair value of contingent consideration recorded in connection with our acquisitions. (5)Reflects the increase in income tax expenses due to non-GAAP adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from payments from our customers and borrowings from Ms. Ngai-Pesic, including without limitation, the 2022 Credit Line. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash including cash generated from operations. As of March 31, 2024, we had $5.7 million in cash, of which $3.7 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. On June 13, 2022, we entered into the $4.0 million 2022 Credit Line with Ms. Ngai-Pesic bearing interest at a rate of prime plus 1% per annum. As of March 31, 2024, the principal balance of the 2022 Credit Line was $2.0 million. Subsequent to our IPO, on May 13, 2024, the 2022 Credit Line was repaid in full. In December 2023, we entered into the East West Bank Loan which provides for borrowings of up to $5.0 million bearing interest at a per annum rate equal to one half of one percent (0.5%) above the greater of (i) the prime rate as reported in The Wall Street Journal or (ii) four and one half percent (4.5%). In addition, if any payment required of us under the East West Bank Loan is not made within ten (10) days after such payment is due, we are required to pay East West Bank a late fee equal to the lesser of (i) six (6%) of such unpaid amount or (ii) the maximum amount permitted to be charged under applicable law, not in any case to be less than $5.00. The outstanding balance on the East West Bank Loan as of March 31, 2024 was $4.3 million, and we were in compliance with all covenants. Subsequent to our IPO on May 13, 2024, the East West Bank Loan was repaid in full and terminated. As of March 31, 2024, $3.0 million, or 52%, of our cash was maintained with one financial institution, where our current deposits are in excess of federally insured limits. Past macroeconomic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived financial distress of many financial institutions, including the recent failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank, First Republic Bank and the UBS takeover of Credit Suisse. If the financial institutions with whom we do business were to become distressed or placed into receivership, we may be unable to access the cash we have on deposit with such institutions. If we are unable to access our cash as needed, our financial position and ability to operate our business could be adversely affected. On April 16, 2024, we entered into a note purchase agreement with Micron, which has been and is a customer of Silvaco, pursuant to which Silvaco issued to Micron a senior subordinated convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $5.0 million. The Micron Note was contractually subordinated to the East West Bank Loan through a subordination agreement with East West Bank but was senior to all of our other existing debt and was senior to any new future debt incurred (other than any undrawn amount available under the current East West Bank Loan) while it was outstanding. The Micron Note accrued interest at the rate of 8% annually, with principal and interest due upon maturity three years after the date of issuance. The Micron Note was mandatorily convertible into a number of shares equal to (i) the outstanding principal amount and accrued interest divided by (ii) a conversion price equal to (a) the price of Silvacos common stock issued in an initial public offering, times (b) 0.90 if the initial public offering of common stock was consummated on or prior to May 31, 2024; 0.85 if the initial public offering of common stock was 27 Table of Contents consummated between June 1, 2024 and April 16, 2025; and 0.80 if the initial public offering of common stock was consummated after April 16, 2025. On May 13, 2024, the Micron Note was converted into 294,217 shares of Silvacos common stock in connection with the consummation of our IPO. The shares issued pursuant to the Micron Note have been registered for resale under the Securities Act. On May 13, 2024, we sold an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of Common Stock in our IPO at a price to the public of $19.00 per share. The gross proceeds from the IPO were $114.0 million, with $106.0 million of net proceeds received by Silvaco after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. Immediately upon the completion of the IPO, the 2022 Credit Line and the East West Bank Loan were repaid in full, and the East West Bank Loan was terminated. We believe our cash, the proceeds received in connection with our IPO, the $5.0 million received in connection with the Micron Note, and the remaining available short-term borrowing capacity under our 2022 Credit Line will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital needs, capital expenditures, financial commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations for at least the next 12 months. We currently have no other committed sources of capital. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the periods indicated. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (2,572) $ 501 Investing activities (10) (177) Financing activities 3,873 (582) Effect of exchange rate changes 27 75 Net change in cash $ 1,318 $ (183) Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from period to period depending on a variety of factors including the timing of our collections and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities primarily relate to personnel related costs, payments for professional services, office leases and related facilities costs, and software supporting our company infrastructure, among others. Our primary source of cash inflows is collections of our accounts receivable. The timing of invoices to our customers and subsequent collection is based on agreements executed and payment terms that can vary by customer. Net cash used by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $2.6 million compared to $0.5 million of net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The $3.1 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects a $3.5 million decline in net working capital driven by changes in contract assets and accounts receivable during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and a $0.3 million change in the fair value of contingent consideration, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in our net income. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 reflects purchases of property and equipment of $10,000 and $0.2 million, respectively. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for three months ended March 31, 2024, was $3.9 million and reflects our $4.3 million drawdown on the East West Bank Loan, partially offset by the payment of $0.4 million of transaction costs incurred in connection with the IPO. Net cash used by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was $0.6 million and reflects $0.6 million of contingent consideration paid in connection with our Nangate and PolytEDA acquisitions. Effects of Exchange Rate Fluctuations on Cash The effects of exchange rate fluctuations on cash were $27,000 and $0.1 million at March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 28 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Following the completion of the IPO, our financial commitments for contractual obligations include our operating lease commitments and contingent consideration. Refer to Note4, Leases, and Note 12, Fair Value of Financial Instruments, for further discussion. Subsequent to the IPO, on May 13, 2024, the 2022 Credit Line and the East West Bank Loan were repaid in full, and the East West Bank Loan was terminated. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates There have not been any material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2024 to the methodology applied by management for critical accounting policies previously disclosed in our audited financial statements set forth in our Registration Statement. For further discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Registration Statement.