Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating Indicators and Non-GAAP Financial Measures of Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on bookings and non-GAAP operating income and the reconciliation of operating (loss) income to non-GAAP operating income. 2 Table of Contents Silvaco Group, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 2009 under the name Saratoga International, Inc., and changed its name to Silvaco Group, Inc. in November 2013. Initial Public Offering In May 2024, we completed our initial public offering ( IPO), in which we sold 6,000,000 shares of our common stock at an offering price of $19.00 per share and raised a total of $114.0 million in gross proceeds, or approximately $106.0 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $7.9 million and before deducting offering-related expenses. Industry Overview Design and manufacturing of SoCs is a time intensive and costly process. Complex AI-driven high performance computing, IoT class of SoCs, high performance memories, and GPU class processors cost millions to billions of dollars to develop. The development, qualification and manufacturing cycle for processors, memories and SoCs varies by market and may require lengthy development times. Similarly designing power systems utilizing new materials such as gallium nitride (GaN) and silicon carbide (SiC) adds additional costs, time to market and complexity to the systems that enable AI. Increasing semiconductor design complexity. The latest technological applications require greater semiconductor performance and functionality, which have necessitated the shift towards more advanced manufacturing process technologies, new materials, and continued reduction of transistor sizes. IC and SoC complexity have significantly increased to accommodate the increased number of functional SIP blocks per chip. The slowing of Moores Law, which states that the number of circuits on a microchip will double every two years, has also led to the adoption of new semiconductor materials to address varying application requirements. For example, SiC, and GaN, materials are being adopted in automotive, consumer, and industrial power applications. New memory technologies, including resistive random-access memory and magneto-resistive random-access memory, or MRAM, are being deployed across mobile, HPC, and IoT applications. All these factors have increased semiconductor design complexity, which in turn increases the probability for significant development delays and project failures. As a result, we believe there is a growing need for differentiated and cost-effective tools such as TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions that enable rapid and reliable development of products containing these newly added materials and technologies. Increasing semiconductor manufacturing and development time and costs. With each reduction in manufacturing process geometry comes a corresponding increase in manufacturing and development costs. Factors driving development cost and time include those associated with the number of personnel required to design, the verification of the design, and the test and validation of the design, as well as the cost of tools for design, verification, test and validation, and the associated manufacturing costs of masks, wafers and production costs, including testing. In general, the more complex the IC, the more personnel and more tools per personnel are needed, hence increasing the cost of design. Many new GPU processors require thousands of engineers to design over many years. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent semiconductor shortage have emphasized the need for supply chain optimization, further accelerating investments in semiconductor foundries. The latest foundries being built are focused on leading-edge manufacturing process technology nodes, primarily driven by mobile applications, and require higher manufacturing yield efficiencies to offset the substantial development costs. As a result of IC technologies moving to sub 7nm process technology nodes and the resultant increase in design difficulty and development costs, we believe the continuing shift will increase demand for TCAD solutions in the design technology optimization loop to deliver high yields, accelerate time-to-market and further reduce costs by reducing the need to run expensive and time-consuming manufacturing experiments. In addition, as these trends continue, EDA solutions that meet manufacturing requirements and can reduce costs associated with potential production delays and project failures, and SIP solutions which can accelerate time-to-market by providing silicon-proven blocks that address complex SoCs and enable new technologies, such as IoT and HPC, are being more readily adopted to mitigate costs and shorten time to market. Increasing end market diversity. There has been a significant growth in semiconductor demand driven by new applications in emerging markets such as automotive, HPC and IoT. Performance and functionality requirements significantly vary across each market, which drives new design complexities and increases manufacturing and development costs. Even traditional markets for semiconductor, such as display applications, are seeing expanded use cases that require different performance and functionality needs. For example, displays in mobile require low power, augmented and virtual reality emphasizes high refresh rates, and televisions are adopting new materials such as quantum dots to reduce manufacturing complexity. The increased diversity of applications in which semiconductors are being used, is leading to a need for more complex semiconductors to satisfy the needs of such applications, which requires further time and cost to develop such semiconductor solutions. As a result, there is a growing need to accelerate time-to-market and reduce costs by adopting complete TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions that enable customers to design, simulate, verify, and analyze their products from the concept stage all the way up to complete product yield. Our Markets To contend with industry performance requirements and new applications, engineers, researchers, and other professionals rely extensively on TCAD, EDA software tools and SIP for designing and optimizing advanced ICs components. Reliance on software tools and SIP has increased in recent years as design challenges have become increasingly complex. 3 Table of Contents Rapid increase in complexity of SoCs has been the result of shrinking manufacturing process geometries, application specific customization to improve computing performance, and adoption of new materials for high voltage applications and photonics computing. These changes have led to increased investments in our research and development. The drive to increase performance and diversification of applications is further accelerated by a broad-scale transition to cloud-based software applications and computing on mobile platforms. The development of semiconductors that are optimized for specific applications, including AI, 5G/6G communications and IoT, has continued to fuel demand for our solutions. Our solutions address the markets set forth below. Solution/ Market Automotive IoT 5G/6G Display Memory HPC Power Devices TCAD --- EDA SIP --- --- --- Power Electronics Market With the advent of high-volume manufacturing of new process technologies such as SiC and GaN, many OEMs and ODMs are producing electronic devices and systems that benefit from these technologies. GaN is being used for low power/voltage, high frequency applications and SiC is being used for high power and high voltage switching power applications. These technologies can enable smaller, faster and lower power devices than those built with prior technologies. As a result, many suppliers are switching their products from dated silicon-based devices to wide band-gap, or WBG, semiconductor materials such as GaN. For example, GaN technology has enabled the replacement of existing silicon-based power supplies for laptops, vehicles and battery charging with smaller and lower power solutions. Power electronics play an important role in electrified vehicle applications that provide compact and high-efficient solutions to power conversion. Given the foundries, design houses, ODMs, OEMs, Tier 1s (modular providers) and Tier 2s (IC providers) that provide power electronics solutions, we benefit by enabling our customers in this market with both our TCAD and EDA solutions. Memory Market The memory market for semiconductors is expected to continue growing at a fast pace, driven by large increases in the demand for dynamic random-access memory and flash memory products. Within data centers, artificial intelligence (AI) technologies require new types of memory technologies such as MRAM that perform weighting calculations in the memory chip itself. We believe our TCAD solution, complemented by our device modeling tools and services, enables memory design teams to explore new materials and device architectures and achieve optimum power and performance for memory elements. Design and technology co-optimization, or DTCO, utilizing both TCAD and EDA solutions to enable designing optimum memory elements is an important stepping stone for many leading-edge ICs in this market, and we provide a targeted DTCO solution for the memory market. Display Market With the growth in adoption of electronics such as smartphones, smart watches, wearables and virtual reality (VR) and gaming, consoles, as well as other display products such as flat-screen TVs, and more, we believe semiconductors used in display technologies are of increasing importance. Display manufacturers are continuing to make large investments in OLED and AMOLED, as well as new technologies such as quantum dot-LED and MicroLED. At the same time, well-established display technologies, such as LCD, are evolving and improving. Industry adoption of photonics materials, including waveguides and photo detectors, is increasing. These trends are driving large changes in materials and fabrication methods for displays. Our customers display development teams use our integrated TCAD solutions with our Analog/Custom design suites to analyze, understand and optimize pixel performance. Our device modeling tools help our customers display designers to generate accurate models of pixels, which enables them to simulate the correct behavior of displays. Our circuit simulation tool uses advanced modeling of devices to capture the capacity of the given circuit(s), with capacity to handle millions of thin-film transistors, (TFTs). Our Analog/Custom design solution provides powerful pixel array placement and routing capabilities that our customers use to produce circuit layouts that match the customers manufacturing requirements and ensure design quality. Through deep collaborations with industry leaders and academia in the display market, we have developed highly differentiated display design solutions spanning TCAD, circuit simulation and Analog/Custom design. Automotive Market The semiconductor content in the automotive market is rapidly growing and evolving, driven by vehicle electrification, advances in electronic control, vehicle connectivity to the internet and autonomous driving. 4 Table of Contents Power devices are at the heart of the electric vehicle revolution, from charging stations to vehicle drivetrain electronics. The new requirements of the automotive market are driving the increasing adoption of different kinds of semiconductor materials such as SiC, GaN and other wide bandgap materials to replace traditional silicon in high-voltage power devices. Companies designing or manufacturing SiC or GaN devices for the power device market can use TCAD simulations as part of their research and development efforts to understand their devices in detail and in turn use that understanding to improve performance, manufacturing yield and reliability. Simulation replaces design of experiments and enables flexibility of foundry selection by reducing costly and time intensive physical trial and error cycles. In addition, electrification and advanced controls in new automobiles are increasing the number of conventional (silicon-based) semiconductor devices. Desire for increasing time-to-market and engineering efficiencies pushes designers towards using and reusing SIP. We are part of the existing ecosystems providing silicon-proven SIP to Tier 1 and Tier 2 providers to automotive, truck, motorcycle and E-bike OEMs. We can also provide specialized EDA solutions and foundational SIPs that our customers integrate into their IC design flow. The barrier to entry in the automotive market is high due to its requirement for innovative technologies that can include complex structures and high initial costs. Leveraging our silicon-proven SIPs enables customers to develop their solutions with functional interoperability and limit the risk of costly mistakes that may require redesign. Internet of Things Market The IoT market is expected to continue to grow as the industry is still in the early stage. All IoT devices require a complex SoC to perform sensing, collecting data, processing data and connecting to other IoT devices or a central server or cloud through several wireless solutions. At the edge of IoT, new devices with ultra-low energy demands will be needed to harvest sensor data across a wide variety of environments. Such SoC architectures require advanced low power microprocessors, low power IO, compact bus fabrics that connect SIP blocks, and various types of embedded memories including low power, compact SRAM standards. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of SIPs and tools for the IoT market, including Standard Cell IP, library creation and characterization tools, ultra-low power SRAM compilers, connectivity IOs, microprocessor SIPs, AMBA SIP Cores and Subsystem. 5G/6G and Mobile Communications Markets The semiconductor market for mobile phones is expected to continue its rapid transition, with the continuing development from predominantly 4G phones to 5G/6G phones. As the wireless market continues to migrate to 5G/6G, high-bandwidth, low latency networks are expected to emerge among a massive number of connected devices and sensors, accompanied by an equally sophisticated chip design process. We believe the shift to 5G/6G will increase demand within our industry due to the complex nature and design cycle of 5G/6G chips. The adoption of more advanced process technology nodes for 5G mobile devices means longer circuit simulation times due to substantial increases in unwanted electrical components (parasitics) in nanometer geometries. We believe our parasitic reduction and analysis tools are unique in the market, complementing existing tool flows. Our latest parasitic reduction and analysis tools allow our customers design teams to accelerate circuit simulation times substantially, as compared to our earlier offerings, and perform fast root cause analyses. The development of RF front-end modules, low-noise amplifiers, power amplifiers, and RF switches for millimeter wave and 5G applications can result in many silicon iterations, due to poor correlation between simulation and silicon measurements caused by substrate effects. We provide solutions for RF circuit designers to extract substrate parasitics, enabling designers to model these effects accurately and easily with minimal impact on simulation times. These solutions are complemented by our circuit simulation tool for RF, Physical Verification tools and our full analog/custom flow for analog block creation. High Performance Computing Market Today, HPC applications involve customized architectures, which in turn, may require specialized circuit and memory elements to implement. Quantum and photonics computing further apply new technologies to address application specific challenges. All these require complex modeling simulations. Our foundational SIPs, memory compilers and library creation EDA tools have been adopted by our customers in HPC applications, which we believe allow our customers to gain a performance edge by using specialized circuits. We also provide modeling services and circuit libraries for cryogenic temperatures used in quantum computing and our TCAD software is being used to design photonics devices. We believe there will be significant demand for our solutions that meet the performance, power and latency requirements while reducing overall costs. We believe DTCO utilizing both TCAD and EDA to address the complexity of design in the HPC market is now used by many leading-edge ICs, and we offer a complete suite of DTCO flow optimization solutions to address such needs. 5 Table of Contents Our Solutions and Products In addition to providing TCAD software, EDA software and SIP, we provide general engineering and research support to serve our target markets. Within our TCAD, EDA and SIP product lines, we offer a multitude of products and offerings to efficiently develop new semiconductor processes and devices. By employing our visualization and simulation tools, users are able to see inside the device during the production and design phases. Our focus is on the development of flexible software solutions that enable users to analyze electronics and optics designs directly on their desktops, laptops, and servers, providing a common platform for fast, efficient, and cost-conscious product development. This is done from design concept to final stages of verification and validation of design with hand off support to manufacturing. As such, we are part of the value chain, the process of enhancing the value of the products moving along the supply chain, particularly in the early stages of R&D and design of semiconductors. Our business model includes: Enabling companies to accelerate IC and photonics designs to efficiently optimize devices. Companies use TCAD solutions to model the fabrication process and devices used in semiconductors including low-geometry complementary metal-oxide semiconductors (CMOS), memory and photonics, thus potentially accelerating the time to develop technology and ramping to yield, reducing the need to run wafers, and optimizing devices, all of which can contribute to lower development costs. We develop our EDA design and simulation solutions and SIP to be tailored to specific technologies and market segments, to enhance design flows that optimize Power, Performance and Area-Cost (PPA). For example, our Victory process and Victory device along with simulation, machine learning and AI is capable of DTCO flow that can optimize manufacturing of memory devices, low-geometry CMOS, power devices and photonics devices such as image sensors, quantum dots, micro-LEDs and displays. Enabling growth industries like AI, automotive, and high-performance computing. Our solutions enable our customers memory devices, power devices and display technologies to play a crucial role in high performance advanced settings in exciting and growing industries. Our customers memory devices help computers and servers store and access data quickly, which is crucial for AI and other advanced applications. Our customers power devices are used in designing power systems for things like computers, cars, and servers, enabling them to run smoothly and efficiently. Our display technologies make it easier to interact with technologies like AI, VR, and augmented reality, improving user experiences. Early mover advantage in vertical markets. For decades we have focused on vertical markets, such as display and power, and have developed industrial and academic partnerships that enable our agile and fast development of solutions aligned with market needs, such as our TCAD and EDA software solutions tailored for use in the display and power markets. The lessons learned in these markets, and the significant costs in developing our software solutions, have not only prepared us for tailoring solutions for new vertical markets including the photonics and memory markets, but have created a significant barrier for new market entrants looking to compete with our products. Leading point tools complement existing chip design flows. Point tools offer the capability of optimizing very specific aspects in a design. These capabilities are often included as features in other design tools; by offering them as stand-alone capabilities to be integrated in any design flow, we believe we can extract more value from these capabilities. They include Jivaro (parasitic reduction, often included in circuit simulation), Viso (parasitics analysis, often included in extraction), and Varman (statistical variation analysis, used in advanced technologies for cell and memory characterization). Production-ready, also known as silicon-proven, SIP for SoC design. A key factor in reducing our customers design complexity is our ability to provide production-ready SIP to our customers. We provide production-ready SIP to our customers, including standard cells, memory and I/O SIP that is developed in-house. In addition, we provide SIP and design management tools that enable SIP validation at SoC level, potentially streamlining design workflows. Development and support of our customers specific needs. Our size and focus on specific market segments allow us to develop highly agile solutions and to work with our customers with a goal of developing solutions that meet their specific needs. Our field support engineers interact strongly with our development team to facilitate competent, timely support. Through our collaboration with our academic partners such as Purdue University and Christian Doppler Labs at the Vienna University of Technology, our TCAD and EDA tools are made ready for the next generation of processes, materials and systems. Interoperable product Portfolio among TCAD, EDA and SIP. Our tools have compatible databases across all of our products for seamless scaling of customer designs. Our product interoperability allows our customers to extend select competitors tools to aid our customers in choosing their preferred tools for any given design step. For example, our customers can use our simulation tools and parasitic reduction tools through the graphical user interface or menu pull downs built into our competitors tools. 6 Table of Contents Cost-effective end-to-end solutions. We offer complete solutions for device characterization, compact model development and circuit simulation; analog custom design, including schematics, layout, extraction and design rule check (DRC) and process and device TCAD. We believe that our software solution pricing is competitive, which is derived from factors such as costs associated with research and development, inflation, licenses mix, number of licenses per product, and number of years per TBL, as well as required license maintenance and services. Furthermore, our solutions are largely self-sufficient in that no third-party tools are necessary to address the end-to-end tasks preformed. Our atoms to systems and interoperable solutions enable customers to start their designs from concept and take them to manufacture ready and verified complete design. For example, customers can simulate a new device technology at the atomic level (e.g., nanowire and nanosheet) using our Victory Atomistic TCAD, which generates accurate models that are handed off to our device simulators such as SmartSpice, while larger circuits generate block level SIP with our analog custom suite of tools (Gateway, Expert, SmartSpice, Smart LV/DRC, Hipex, Jivaro and Varman) verified at the SoC level for manufacturing. Many of our solutions can be used in tandem with our competitors tools, and power devices and display providers use our design software to address certain design challenges. We believe that our positions in the TCAD and power devices and displays markets are strengthened by our EDA product line capabilities. For example, our display simulation models and features help us differentiate when we combine EDA with TCAD. We have invested in advanced semiconductor and photonics TCAD solutions, including investments in atomistic simulations, process etch, process deposition and design of experiments that are AI driven to serve these markets. We have also partnered with key research universities, including Purdue University, the University of Vienna and Stanford University, who have focused TCAD related studies, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage relative to peer companies. Lastly, we believe that we differentiate our products from our competitors products by providing solutions that address specific customer needs and requirements in the TCAD and displays and power devices markets. We believe that our agility and synergies among product lines play a crucial role in competing in EDA. For example, our circuit simulator offers capabilities for the display market, such as a differentiated model for Thin Film Transistors (a device extensively used in displays), and hysteresis and stress simulation features. Customers using our TCAD products can adopt our EDA products and TCAD simulation, device modeling (UTMOST product and services) and circuit simulation (SmartSpice) form a natural combination. We have also developed software that certain of our customers have labelled as having best-in-class point tools capabilities. To our knowledge, standalone RC reduction (Jivaro) is not offered by competitors and is included in products like circuit simulation. Also, in the highly competitive analog custom design market, particularly for more mature technologies, we believe that our willingness and capability of developing process design kits, or PDKs, for specific technologies has the potential to give us a natural advantage. Our SIP solutions are qualified and silicon-proven at certain foundries, which we believe enables our customers using such foundries to lower their cost of development and reduce their time to market compared to SIP solutions that are not silicon-proven at such foundries. To our knowledge, we are one of only two EDA/TCAD companies in the world that provide SIP to their customers. Unlike the non-EDA SIP companies, as an EDA company, we have open access to our own Analog Custom Design flow EDA software that we use for designing SIP for our customers, hence not incurring the EDA tool costs that non-EDA SIP providers incur. Further, we have developed SIP tools that not only automate generation and characterization of some of our SIPs, but also have SIP management tools as our product that we utilize to manage our SIP and customer SIPs. TCAD Solutions and Products Our TCAD software solutions are designed to help reduce the time and manufacturing cycles spent to develop semiconductor technologies and help reduce the costs during development cycles. TCAD is part of a DTCO flow that is intended to improve designs across multiple domains (Layout, Process, Device, SPICE and RC extraction). A full TCAD to SPICE flow, in an integrated DTCO environment, helps deliver clear actionable results for circuit design optimization. Typical applications include: physical etch and deposition process simulation; calibration of doping profiles and MOS/bipolar transistors; modeled effects (including self-heating and thermal gradients for power device and TFT); photonics simulation for solar cell, CCD, CIS, TFT, LCD and OLED using ray tracing/FDTD/TMM; single event effect and total dose simulation; and stress simulation. 7 Table of Contents We also offer TCAD modeling services that provide a solution for customers who have unique semiconductor device modeling requirements, but do not have the time or resources to operate TCAD software in-house. Using TCAD modeling services provides access to our expertise in semiconductor physics and TCAD software operation to help provide a complete, fast and accurate solution. TCAD modeling services deliverables include graphical output (plots of structures and behaviors), structures (TCAD device files and meshes) and device characteristics (electrical, thermal and/or photonics). The graphical results can be delivered through results files and one license of our viewer/plotter tool or final result plots printed by us. The graphic below shows the three classes of TCAD products we provide, namely Process, Device and Modeling. Utilizing all three classes of TCAD products enables our design co-optimization solutions for design and fabrication. EDA Software and Modeling Services Our EDA software solutions cover multiple areas of analog/mixed-signal/RF circuit simulation, custom IC CAD and interconnect modeling, including support for CMOS, bipolar, diode, JFET, SOI, TFT, HEMT, IGBT, resistor and capacitor models. We also provide complete SPICE modeling services for the semiconductor industry, ideally suited to either complement in-house SPICE modeling capabilities when time is critical, or to provide complete SPICE modeling services for occasional needs. The graphic below shows our EDA products in the design capture and layout and design simulation and analysis classes. We have the ability to address specific customer needs by combining any of the products described below. 8 Table of Contents SIP and EDA Software and Design Services We provide software that optimizes and re-targets standard cell libraries. Automated tools improve productivity by automating standard cell library designs that would otherwise need to be done manually, sometimes by tens of designers. In addition, we provide automated standard cell library characterization tools that replace manual and labor-intensive characterization of standard cells. The graphic below shows our SIP EDA software and solutions that are designed to enable foundries, design houses and allow integration and utilization of our library characterization tools with SmartSpice or third-party SPICE simulators. We have more than 20 years of experience in developing foundational SIPs in process technology nodes from .35nm down to 16nm and have delivered more than 50 standard cell libraries and 96 memory compilers. Our full-featured standard cell libraries have demonstrated maximal density and routing performance. The cell schematic used on more complex cells also provides options for high performance or high-density design optimizations. As a standard feature, all industry standard views (CDL netlist, LEF, GDSII, Liberty, PEX Spice netlist, Verilog, VITAL, EDIF and others) are provided from a consistent database. Our standard cell library development and characterization services, either as a fully independent third-party SIP vendor for foundries or as a partner in the development of specialty libraries, are provided for fabless companies. The most common services provided are: Complete standard cell library development; 9 Table of Contents IP migration to new process; Embedded memory compilers such as SRAM, Read Only Memories, or ROM, and Register files both as services and standard products. Our embedded memories span many process technology nodes optimized for speed, power and area; Library characterization services; and General purpose and custom I/Os as part of our SIP service to our customers. SIP Management Tools and SIP SIP and SoC Management Software. Our SIP and SoC Management Software (IP Vault) helps teams of designers to manage (release, revision control and contracts) and collaborate amongst the internal team, the SIP providers, and customers. IP Vault also provides the ability for the team to authenticate SIP blocks from various providers and also authenticate and fingerprint the chip that utilizes these SIP blocks to verify that the correct SIP is being used in an SoC. Silicon-Proven Soft IP Blocks. Our Silicon-Proven Soft IP Blocks are embedded in SoCs and ICs in our targeted markets of automotive, IoT, wireless and HPC. These SIP blocks are developed internally by our engineers, or in collaboration with our semiconductor foundry partners. The graphic below shows the SIP management software encompassing all of the SIP designs used in an SoC. Growth Strategy As the demands of semiconductor technology continue to grow and increase in complexity, we intend to take the following actions to deliver value to our customers with our TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions, further our long-term growth and increase our market share: Focus on large, growing markets where we have cemented ourselves as a reliable solutions provider. We seek to continue and expand our presence in the growing display, automotive semiconductor, memory device and IoT markets. We believe our current position will allow us to expand our top line in concert with the growth of our existing customers in these markets. By increasing our Research and Development expenditures, we plan to expand our presence in established market segments. We plan to expand our addressable market in established market segments, which include low-geometry CMOS technology, new specialized SIP, fabrication technology process co-optimization, and photonics. Historically we have not participated materially in these markets. We have established beta and strategic customers and generated revenue in 2024 and 2023 from the beta customers in our target markets to further our expansion in these market segments. Many of our strategic customers engage in advanced research and development projects with us, with a goal of further developing their product simulation capabilities. We believe that their participation in verification and validation of our newly developed products has the potential to enhance our product quality and market testing. 10 Table of Contents Continue to seek strategic acquisitions to accelerate growth and expand our market footprint. We have a history of acquisitions that have enabled our research and development endeavors and target to realize revenue from new product introductions from such acquisitions beginning in the second-year post-acquisition. Since 2015, we have acquired ten companies that have enhanced and expanded our product portfolio. For example, we acquired PolytEDA in 2021, which expanded our capabilities for rapid physical verification of IC designs prior to mask creation and manufacturing and cloud enablement of EDA tools. We also acquired Dolphin Design SASs (Dolphin) memory compiler team and select SIPs in 2020. This acquisition added memory and memory compiler capabilities to our SIP. Certain of our customers who require embedded memories in their IC and SoC designs are taking advantage of our low power and small area embedded memory. Historically, we have focused on acquisitions that provide us with technology (e.g., Purdue Atomics simulation tools, commercialized under our Victory Atomistic tools), technical talent, and revenue in new markets. Examples of such acquisitions are EdXact in France and Invarian in the United States, which provided us with additional talent pools as well as tools, such as Jivaro and Invar, that we successfully introduced to market. We intend to continue to target acquisitions that allow us to expand our solutions portfolio to better service our customers needs. Leverage our technology in TCAD, EDA, SIP and SIP management software. We plan to continue to invest in the technology that differentiates us and where we can establish or expand our leadership position, such as TCAD for power devices, display and photonics, simulation of large panels with complex device models, parasitic analysis and reduction, SIP management and fingerprinting, device characterization tools and services, and development of additional SIP. Optimize our competitive advantage by addressing unique customer needs. We pride ourselves on research and development agility, allowing us to design capabilities specific to customers requirements and, where appropriate, integrate those capabilities into our software solutions. We also offer cost-effective complete solutions due to the synergies across our product portfolio. Focus on a portfolio approach to the licensing and sale of our software platform. We seek to differentiate ourselves through the breadth of our software and SIP offerings, addressing the full design cycle needs of our customers across applications and industries. In 2022, we began engaging with beta customers, and in 2023 we generated revenue from such customers on our newly planned software platforms. Expand our customer base through increased investment in sales and marketing. We believe our serviceable market is under penetrated and that we can expand our customer base by increasing our marketing and sales resources, particularly in growing segments such as automotive and IoT. Our strategic accounts, which we define as customers that achieved bookings in excess of an aggregate of $1.0 million over the three-year period ended December 31, 2024, contributed $40.3 million of our total bookings in 2024, and the bookings received from strategic accounts grew at a 37% CAGR over the past two years. In addition, we gained 13 new customers in the power end-market and eight new customers in the memory end-market in 2024. Establish, maintain and expand relationships with key technology providers and academic partners. We have relationships with SIP providers, foundries, design service companies, EDA companies, our commercial customers and academia. These relationships range from seminal technology work with universities to distribution and maintenance of SIP. For example, our master license agreement with the Purdue Research Foundation, or Purdue, allows us to commercialize, make, sell, use, distribute, modify and create derivative works of certain atomistic simulation technologies developed under our strategic alliance agreement with Purdue. We plan to continue to expand our ecosystem to maximize our reach, integrate into established flows and offer world-class solutions. Customers We provide end-to-end solutions such as software, design IP, and world-class support to a global and diverse customer base of engineers and researchers in both semiconductor companies and academia. We aim to support our customers use of our products to solve semiconductor design challenges spanning the levels of atoms, devices, and systems. Through decades of collaboration with academia, we have created an end-to-end solution for display visualization and simulated stress-testing coupled with an integrated support system and SIP services. With our combined platform, we believe we can attract new customers, retain existing ones, and create upsell opportunities. As of December 31, 2024, we had over 800 customers that relied on our solutions worldwide, of which over 200 are academic institutions. As of December 31, 2024, our revenue was geographically distributed as follows: 53% from customers in Asia, 38% from customers in North America, and 9% from customers in Europe. Sales and Marketing We work closely with our customers throughout the semiconductor lifecycle with our solutions, and support offerings to meet their specific and complex needs. We utilize account managers to engage with our customers early in their design-in cycles and collaborate with them throughout the design journey. We rely primarily on direct sales channels across the world and augment our sales efforts with distributors in growth or emerging markets, such as Israel, India and Southeast Asia. To handle the complexities of the industry, we use account managers with specialized knowledge who cover and can speak to all company products. In addition, we rely upon field application engineers for product specialization and sales operations to handle universities and smaller opportunities. 11 Table of Contents Although the specific terms of our contracts vary from customer to customer, the license agreements are commonly one or three-year commitments. Sales cycles vary depending upon the product and offerings along with the specific needs and complexities of the individual customer. TCAD and EDA opportunities generally have a sales cycle of six to nine months whereas SIP opportunities generally range from three to eight months. Renewal engagement generally starts six to 12 months prior to license expiration. Our sales and marketing teams have international coverage segmented into three distinct regions: the Americas (USA and Brazil), EMEA and APAC (Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan and Singapore). As of December 31, 2024, our sales and marketing team included 30 regional sales representatives positioned across these geographies. As of December 31, 2024, our sales and marketing management team had an average of over 25 years of sales experience. Research and Development We believe that our future growth and acquisition of new customers depends on our ability to introduce enhancements to our existing products and to develop new products for both existing and new markets. As a result, a material portion of our operating expenses have been allocated towards this effort. Our research and development efforts are focused primarily on TCAD, analog and custom design, circuit simulation, and SIP. We have assembled a core team of experienced engineers and systems designers who conduct research and development activities in the United States, EMEA, and Brazil. As of December 31, 2024, we had 145 engineers worldwide, representing approximately 51% of our total employee base, and approximately 79% of our engineers hold advanced degrees in science or engineering. We are currently expanding our research and development efforts, with key updates to our product lines, including Victory Process and Device (TCAD), SmartSpice (circuit simulation), UTMOST (modeling), Viso (parasitics analysis), Jivaro (parasitics reduction), Varman (variation analysis) and analog custom design, including Schematics, Layout, Smart DRC, Smart LVS and Extraction. To support our growth, we intend to continue our investments in research and development. Intellectual Property Our patents and other legal intellectual property protections are created when we believe we have developed proprietary and unique technologies that may impact our customers businesses and help differentiate our products. We utilize patents to provide protection for our developed products, helping maintain product differentiation. Currently, our patent portfolio is focused on SIP (fingerprinting and DNA-analysis), circuit and standard cell design, generation and optimization, cell libraries with a large number of cells, memory cells and arrays, physical verification, simulation of light emitting diodes, (LED), and other related spaces. Our accomplishments of developing our technology and products, and our ability to compete worldwide, is made possible by our commitment to develop and maintain leadership of our products and to stay current with filings to protect our intellectual property. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, other contractual protections, and distribution of software licenses only to protect our technologies and proprietary know-how. As of December 31, 2024, we had 19 issued U.S. patents expiring generally between 2028 and 2039, 3 pending U.S. patent applications, 4 issued foreign patents (including 2 French patents, 1 Taiwanese patent, and 1 Japanese patent) expiring generally between 2032 and 2041, 5 pending foreign patents (including 2 pending Taiwanese applications, 2 pending European patent applications, and 1 pending Japanese patent application) and 3 pending International Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications. Our issued patents and pending patent applications generally relate to SIP characterization, standard cells, memory, physical verification and LED simulation. As of December 31, 2024, we have obtained registered U.S. federal trademarks for SILVACO and VIRTUAL WAFER FAB, and have pending applications for FTCO and PCAIO. Competition Within the TCAD software segment, we compete against several other vendors, including Synopsys, Inc., Ansys, Inc., and Coventor, Inc., a Lam Research Company. We compete in the industry based on the market segments we serve, technology leadership, product efficiency, ease of integration, ease of use, payment structures, customer support, and time to market. Several factors drive TCAD customers buying decisions, and we compete across all customer needs in order to capture a portion of our customers budgets. We believe that the market for TCAD software is highly consolidated, with various inorganic growth strategies, such as mergers and acquisitions, partnerships, and collaboration driving this consolidation. The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers own design tools and internal abilities. We compete in the industry primarily on principles of technology leadership, product quality and efficiency, ease of integration, license terms, payment structures, and customer support. Major players in the EDA sector include Synopsys, Cadence and Siemens EDA. The industry also features numerous smaller providers of EDA software and services that often focus on specific market niches and phases within the design process. 12 Table of Contents In SIP, we compete with solutions developed internally by our SoC customers, other third-party providers, and other smaller providers. The largest market segments of SIP such as processors and I/O require large development budgets and are dominated by large players such as Arm Limited and Synopsys. In other segments SIP deployment competes mainly against internally developed solutions, and competitors often consist of smaller companies that provide targeted, specific product solutions rather than comprehensive solutions. In the SIP segment, we compete based on PPA, idle power consumption, data movement performance such as frequency, latency, bandwidth, and time to market. Major players in this industry include Arm Limited, Synopsys, Cadence, and CEVA, Inc. Government Regulation We face increasingly stringent and evolving regulatory challenges. For example, we are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws in the United States and other countries in which we conduct activities, including the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents, intermediaries and other third parties from directly or indirectly promising, authorizing, making or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector. Noncompliance with these regulations could subject us to investigations, severe criminal or civil sanctions, settlements, prosecution, loss of export privileges, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage and other consequences. We are also subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. For example, certain of our software solutions are subject to U.S. export controls and sanctions, including the Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, and the economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, which may limit our ability to export our software solutions and technology or may require export authorizations and conditions prior to export. We regularly engage with outside experts and review our internal compliance related to such U.S. export controls laws, regulations and sanctions programs and have filed certain voluntary disclosures related to potential violations of such U.S. export control laws and regulations and sanctions programs. Such voluntary disclosures remain pending and if an enforcement action is brought against us in relation to such potential violations, such actions could result in the imposition of significant penalties against us. Furthermore, because we may process personal data in the ordinary course of our business we are, or may become, subject to numerous data privacy and security obligations, including federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, guidance, and industry standards related to data privacy and security, including, without limitation, the EU GDPR and the UK GDPR, the CCPA and other U.S. state laws. These privacy and security laws may increase our compliance obligations and exposure for any noncompliance. See the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Legal, Regulatory, Accounting and Tax Matters for additional information about the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject and about the risks to our business associated with such laws and regulations. Employees and Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had 279 employees worldwide, including 104 full-time equivalent employees located in the United States, consisting of 47 in research and development, 25 in sales and marketing, and 32 in general and administrative. We consider relations with our employees to be good and have never experienced a work stoppage. None of our employees are either represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Additional Information Our website address is www.silvaco.com. Our website and the contents therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors IA description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe to be material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary We face significant competition from larger companies as well as from third-party providers who may deploy their resources to develop IP solutions internally. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our interim results of operations may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. Substantial, prolonged economic downturns in key industrial sectors and in major economic regions in which we operate, including China, may result in reduced software solutions sales and lower revenue growth. The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our software license revenue and our maintenance and service revenue and the failure to increase such revenue would lead to a material decline in our results of operations. We also depend on growth in the semiconductor and photonics industries and in the end markets that use our products. Any slowdown in the growth of these industries and end markets could harm our business. If we are unable to deliver new and innovative software solutions or software license enhancements ahead of rapid technological changes in the market, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. Our international sales and operations constitute a substantial portion of our revenue and business operations and could be negatively affected by disruptions in international geographies caused by government actions, trade disputes, direct or indirect acts of war or terrorism, international political or economic instability or other similar events. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from our international sales channels, and we have significant operations in numerous international geographies. As such, any adverse fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our performance. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete successfully and our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on the interoperability of our software solutions with our customers intended use cases and with products and services of other companies, including our competitors. If our information technology systems, or those of third parties upon which we rely, or our data are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences resulting from such compromise, including but not limited to, regulatory investigations or actions, litigation, fines and penalties, disruptions of our business operations, reputational harm, loss of revenue or profits, and other adverse consequences. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, either directly or through adverse impacts on certain of our vendors and customers. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or investments, our business could be disrupted because of acquisitions or investments and, depending on how we finance such acquisitions, we could use significant amounts of cash. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. Any dispute regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify customers, the cost of which could harm our business. As long as we are a controlled company, your ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited, and the interests of our controlling shareholder may conflict with or differ from your interests as a stockholder. Pending or future investigations or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. 14 Table of Contents We have experienced a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the past. If we experience material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to report our financial condition or results of operations accurately or on a timely basis, prevent fraud or file our periodic reports in a timely manner and may incur additional costs to remediate, all of which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and our reported financial information and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face significant competition from larger companies as well as from third-party providers who may deploy their resources to develop IP solutions internally. We are engaged in a competitive segment of the global semiconductor and photonics industries. Our competitive landscape is characterized by competition from companies that have significantly greater resources than us. A variety of factors could adversely impact our ability to compete, including rapid technological change in our software solution design, customers that make purchase decisions based on a mix of factors of varying importance and continuous declines in average selling prices of our software solutions. We compete principally on the basis of technology, license quality and features, license terms, compatibility, reliability, interoperability among products and price and payment terms. We compete against larger companies including Synopsys, Inc., Ansys, Inc., Coventor, Inc., a Lam Research company, Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Siemens EDA, Arm Limited, and CEVA, Inc. Such companies have greater name recognition than us and possess substantial financial, technical, research and development and engineering resources that can be deployed so they can develop competing TCAD, EDA and SIP solutions. Varying combinations of these resources provide advantages to these competitors that enable them to influence industry trends and the pace at which industries adapt to these trends. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a shift in customer preferences to competitors products, could result in increased pressure to lower our prices more rapidly than anticipated, increased selling and marketing expense, and/or market share loss. The consolidation of our competitors or collaboration among our competitors to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could prior to consolidation may also impact our ability to compete effectively. In addition, new market entrants with novel technology could change the competitive landscape, potentially resulting in reduced market share, additional pressure to lower prices, or further increases in selling and marketing expense. To the extent our revenue is negatively impacted by competitive pressures and reduced pricing, our business could be harmed. In addition, our ability to compete in our market is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, any of the below factors could significantly affect our ability to compete and could harm our business: Our ability to anticipate and lead critical software solution development cycles and technological shifts as driven by our target markets, to innovate rapidly and efficiently and to improve our existing solutions; Decisions by semiconductor companies and/or OEMs to develop IP internally, rather than license IP from outside vendors due to strategic changes, enhanced internal capability, budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; Our ability to maintain and improve upon our current research and development collaboration agreements; Whether any competitor substantially increases its engineering and marketing resources to compete with our software solutions; The challenges of developing, or acquiring externally developed, technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges; Our ability to expand into established market segments; Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms; and The potential effects of geopolitical conflicts, such as the ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China and Russias invasion of Ukraine, including retaliatory and regulatory actions, on purchasing, development, sales and innovation responses and trends in response to such conflicts. We may also be unable to reduce the cost of our software solutions sufficiently to enable us to compete with our competitors or other third-party providers who may deploy their resources to develop IP solutions internally. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and could adversely affect our gross margins. To the extent we are unable to reduce the prices of our software solutions and remain competitive, our revenue will likely decline, resulting in further pressure on our gross margins, which could harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and, as a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. The majority of our software license revenue is treated as point in time revenue at the start of the license period, so past revenue may not be indicative of the amount of revenue in any future period. Significant portions of our anticipated future revenue, therefore, will likely depend upon our success in attracting new customers or continuing or expanding our relationships with existing customers. However, revenue recognized from licensing arrangements can vary significantly from period to period, depending largely on bookings recorded during a quarter as well as the timing of the receipt of purchase orders, and is difficult to predict. Revenue that we anticipate will be recognized in a given quarter may end up being recognized in subsequent quarters as a result of the timing of the booking, the specifics of the licensing arrangements or other factors. For example, in the third quarter of 2024, we expected to receive a significant purchase order of approximately $5.0 million but the purchase order was not received until the first week of the fourth quarter. As a result, we did not recognize any revenues from that purchase order in the third quarter of 2024. In addition, as we expand our business into new markets, our licensing contracts may be smaller in volume but greater in value, which may result in further fluctuations in our software license revenue quarter to quarter. Our ability to succeed in our licensing efforts will depend on a variety of factors, including the market positioning, performance, quality, breadth and depth of our current and future IP and solutions as well as our sales and marketing success. Our failure to obtain future licensing customers would impede our future revenue growth and could materially harm our business. Additionally, fluctuations may be caused by many other factors, including the timing of new software license releases or enhancements by us or our competitors, the license mix and timing of bookings and TBL renewals, software bugs or defects or other software solution quality problems, competition and pricing changes, customer booking or renewal deferrals in anticipation of new software solutions or enhancements, changes in demand for our software solutions, changes in operating expenses, changes in the mix of software license and maintenance and service revenue, timing of our collection of cash, personnel changes and general economic conditions. Further, we and our customers are affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and globally. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, including the imposition of new tariffs affecting our or our customers products and services, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and broad trends in industry and finance, all of which are beyond our control. Any adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions that may occur in the future, including any recession, economic slowdown or disruption of credit markets, may lead to lower demand for products that incorporate our solutions. Macroeconomic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States and the rest of the world, including inflation and changes in currency valuations, could adversely affect us, our customers and vendors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these and other factors, you should not rely on the results of any prior interim or annual periods, or any historical trends reflected in such results, as indications of our future revenue or operating performance. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could cause our stock price to decline and, as a result, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our interim results of operations may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. Our results of operations have fluctuated significantly as a result of seasonality. For example, new year celebrations in certain countries in Asia, summer holidays in Europe and the United States, and winter holidays globally have, in the past, resulted in a slowdown in demand for our software solutions in affected locations. The impact of this cyclicality on our business is evident in lower bookings, including software license renewals and revenue in the second and third quarters of certain years as compared to first and fourth quarters of that year. The seasonality of our business is also affected by our customers research and development cycles. For example, our bookings generally increase when our customers increase their research and development spend on their next generation products, which we traditionally see occur in the first quarter and last quarter of each year in part due to our customers budgetary cycles. We may also be affected by additional seasonal trends in the future, particularly as our business continues to mature. Such seasonality may result from a number of factors, including a slowdown in our customers procurement process during certain times of the year, both domestically and internationally, and customers choosing to spend remaining budgets shortly before the end of their fiscal years. Seasonality has in the past caused, and may cause in the future, fluctuations in our results of operations and financial metrics, and make forecasting our future results of operations and financial metrics more difficult. Substantial, prolonged economic downturns in key industrial sectors and in major economic regions in which we operate, including China, may result in reduced software solution sales and lower revenue growth. Our sales are based significantly on end user demand for our software solutions in the display, power devices, automotive, memory, HPC, IoT, and 5G/6G mobile markets. Many of these markets periodically experience economic declines. These economic declines may be exacerbated by other economic factors, such as the recent increase in global energy prices. These economic factors may adversely affect our business by extending sales cycles and reducing revenue. 16 Table of Contents Our customers supply semiconductor solutions to a wide spectrum of goods and services providers in all major economic regions. Our performance is materially impacted by general economic conditions and the performance of our customers. Our management team forecasts macroeconomic trends and developments and integrates them through long-range planning into budgets, research and development strategies and a wide variety of general management duties. To the extent that our forecasts are overly optimistic or overly pessimistic about the performance of an economy or sector, our performance may be hindered because of a failure to properly match corporate strategy with economic conditions. Terrorist attacks, war and other increased global hostilities, including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and its adversaries, Hamas, Hezbollah and Iran, pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and natural disasters have, at times, contributed to widespread uncertainty and speculation in the semiconductor markets. For example 53% and 60% of our revenue was derived from our customers in APAC for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, 18% and 23% of our revenue was derived from our customers in China, respectively. China has been recently experiencing an economic slowdown, which, if continued, could adversely impact our revenue derived from China-based operations in future periods. Further, geopolitical disruptions among the United States and China could result in the suspension or delay of purchases of our software solutions by our customers in China, which could inhibit our ability to secure similar levels of revenue in the future from such customers or otherwise. See We face risks associated with doing business in China. Similar uncertainties and speculation may result in further economic contraction, resulting in the suspension or delay of purchases of our software solutions by our customers, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends on sustaining or growing our software license revenue and our maintenance and service revenue and the failure to increase such revenue would lead to a material decline in our results of operations. Our revenue consists of software license fees and other fees and royalties paid for access to our technologies and other maintenance and services we provide to our customers. Our success at continuing to derive revenue from existing customers requires that we continue to service their needs adequately and provide them with solutions that drive value for them. Our ability to secure and renew the software licenses from which our revenue is derived depends on our customers adopting our solutions and may require us to incur significant expenditures and dedicate engineering resources to the development or enhancement of our software licenses without assurance that our solutions will be licensed. If we incur such expenditures and fail to secure revenue from such customers, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we fail to grow our software license revenue, we are likely to consequently fail to grow our maintenance and service revenue, which would further adversely affect our results of operation. Further, because of the significant costs associated with qualifying new suppliers, customers are likely to use the same or an enhanced version of solution from existing suppliers across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time. As a result, if we fail to sell our solutions to any particular potential new customer, we may lose the opportunity to make future sales of those solutions to that potential customer for a significant period of time, or at all, and we may experience an associated decline in revenue relating to those products. We may not be able to maintain or expand sales to our significant customers for a variety of reasons, and our customers can stop incorporating or using our solutions, decline to renew their agreements or terminate their agreements, often with limited notice to us and often with little or no penalty. The loss of any significant customers, a reduction in sales to any significant customers, a significant delay or negative development in our customers product development plans, or our inability to attract new significant customers or secure new significant design wins, could negatively impact our business. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor and photonics industries may limit our ability to maintain or improve our revenue. The semiconductor and photonics industries are highly cyclical and are prone to significant downturns from time to time. Cyclical downturns can result from a variety of market forces including constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, all of which can result in significant declines in semiconductor demand and thus demand for our software solutions. We have experienced downturns in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. For example, the industry experienced a significant downturn in connection with the most recent global recession in 2008, and further experienced a downturn in 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Recently, downturns in the semiconductor and photonics industries have been attributed to a variety of factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing trade disputes between the United States and China, weakness in demand and pricing for semiconductors across applications and shortages. Recent downturns have directly impacted our business, as has been the case with many other companies, suppliers, distributors and customers in the semiconductor and photonics industries and other industries around the world, and any prolonged or significant future downturns in the semiconductor and photonics industries could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We depend on growth in the semiconductor and photonics industries and in the end markets that use our products. Any slowdown in the growth of these industries and end markets could harm our business. The growth of our TCAD, EDA and SIP markets are dependent on the semiconductor and photonics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers, systems companies and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of or SoC, ICs, electronic systems and customers concerns about managing costs, have previously led to, and in the future could lead to, a decrease in design starts and design activity in general. For example, in response to this increasing complexity, some customers may choose to focus on one discrete phase of the design process or opt for less advanced, but less risky, manufacturing processes that may not require new or enhanced design solutions. Demand for our software solutions and services could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if growth in the semiconductor and photonics industries slows or stalls, including due to the impact of inflation or a sustained global supply chain disruption. Inflation has recently increased in the United States and globally as a result of global supply chain issues, increased government spending and monetary policy, a rise in energy prices, and strong consumer demand coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic. As we experienced, an inflationary environment can increase our cost of labor, energy and other operating costs and could also impact and reduce the number of customers who purchase our software solutions as credit becomes more expensive or unavailable. Furthermore, many of our customers outsource the manufacturing of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. However, if we fail to optimize our EDA and SIP solutions for use with major foundries manufacturing processes or major IP providers products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP licenses is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our continued success will also depend in large part on general economic growth and growth within our target markets including the display, power devices, automotive, memory, HPC, IoT, and 5G/6G mobile markets. Factors affecting these markets could seriously harm our customers and/or end customers and, as a result, harm us, examples of which include: Reduced sales of our customers and/or end customers products; The effects of catastrophic and other disruptive events at our customers and/or end customers offices or facilities; Increased costs associated with potential disruptions to our customers and/or end customers supply chain and other manufacturing and production operations, including supply chain issues like those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and similar disruptions that may occur in future; The deterioration of our customers and/or end customers financial condition; Delays and project cancellations as a result of design flaws in the products developed by our customers and/or end customers; The inability of our customers and/or end customers to dedicate the resources necessary to promote and commercialize their products; The inability of our customers and/or end customers to adapt to changing technological demands resulting in their products becoming obsolete; and The failure of our customers and/or end customers products to achieve market success and gain broad market acceptance. Any slowdown in the growth of these end markets could harm our business. If we are unable to deliver new and innovative software solutions or software license enhancements ahead of rapid technological changes in the market, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. We operate in an industry generally characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions that can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. A major factor in our future success will be our ability to anticipate technological changes and to develop and introduce, in a timely manner, enhancements to our existing software solutions to meet those changes. If we are unable to introduce new software solutions and to respond quickly to industry changes, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The introduction and marketing of new or enhanced software solutions requires us to manage the transition from existing software licenses to minimize disruptions in customer purchasing patterns. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely basis, new software solutions, or software license enhancements that our new software licenses will address the changing needs of the marketplace, or that we will successfully manage the transition from existing products. From time to time, we may agree to hold back certain of our software license enhancements for exclusive use of one or a small number of customers, which may limit our ability to timely adapt our broader software solutions range to meet technological innovation by our competitors or the needs of our other customers. 18 Table of Contents We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. To contend with industry performance requirements and new applications, engineers, researchers, and other professionals rely extensively on TCAD and EDA software tools to design and optimize advanced IC components. Reliance on TCAD and EDA software tools has increased in recent years as design challenges have become increasingly complex, which influences our development cycle and consequently our performance and results of operations. Additionally, shrinking manufacturing process geometries, application specific customization to improve computing performance, and adoption of new materials for high voltage applications and photonics computing has led to a rapid increase in the complexity of SoCs. We currently devote substantial resources to the research and development of new and enhanced software solutions. However, we may be required to devote more resources than anticipated to address requirements for specific target markets, new competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor and photonics industries or by competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. We expect these expenses to increase in the foreseeable future as our technology development efforts continue, and there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in software solutions that result in additional revenue. We may also decide to increase our research and development investment to seize customer or market opportunities, which could negatively impact our financial results. Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, among our customers in the semiconductor and photonics industries have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power or reduced customer spending on software and services. Consolidation among our customers could also reduce the demand for our software solutions and services if customers streamline research and development or operations, reduce purchases or delay purchasing decisions. Reduced customer spending or the loss of a number of customers, particularly our large customers, could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, we and our competitors from time to time acquire businesses and technologies to complement and expand our respective software solutions offerings. Consolidated competitors could have considerable financial resources, channel influence, and broad geographic reach, allowing them to engage in competition on the basis of software solution differentiation, pricing, marketing, services, support and more. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies that we do not offer, they may be able to offer a larger technology portfolio, additional support and service capability or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our international sales and operations constitute a substantial portion of our revenue and business operations and could be negatively affected by disruptions in international geographies caused by government actions, trade disputes, direct or indirect acts of war or terrorism, international political or economic instability or other similar events. A significant portion of our revenue comes from outside the United States. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, 63% and 70%, respectively of our revenue was from international customers. Risks inherent in our international business activities include imposition of government controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, products and services, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every foreign country in which we sell our software solutions and services. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, we have offices globally with our sales and research and development being conducted in offices located in numerous geographical locations. Moreover, conducting business outside the United States subjects us to a number of additional risks and challenges, including: Changes in a specific countrys or regions political, regulatory or economic conditions; Our ability to maintain our offices and/or operations in countries or regions experiencing military, political or social instability; A pandemic, epidemic or other outbreak of an infectious disease, such as COVID-19, which may cause us or our distributors, vendors and/or customers to temporarily or completely suspend our or their respective operations in the affected city or country; 19 Table of Contents Compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations (including those of municipalities or provinces where we have operations) and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, social insurance contributions and other payroll taxes and fees to governmental entities, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; Unanticipated restrictions on our ability to sell to foreign customers where sales of software solutions and the provision of services may require export licenses or are prohibited by government action, unfavorable foreign exchange controls and currency exchange rates; Imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, including trade tensions such as U.S.-China trade tensions; Potential for substantial penalties and litigation related to violations of a wide variety of laws, treaties and regulations, including labor regulations, export control, sanctions and anti-corruption regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the U.K. Bribery Act); Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas, time zones and cultures; Changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Potential political, legal and economic instability, armed conflict, and civil unrest in the countries in which we and our customers are located; Difficulty and costs of maintaining effective data security; Inadequate protection of our IP; Nationalization and expropriation; Restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including withholding taxes and other potentially negative tax consequences; Unfavorable and/or changing foreign tax treaties and policies; Increased exposure to general market and economic conditions outside of the United States; and Currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we choose to do so in the future. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our software solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our international sales force. We plan to continue expanding our sales force, both domestically and internationally. We also plan to dedicate significant resources to our sales and marketing programs. All of these efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be harmed if our sales and marketing efforts do not generate significant increases in revenue or if the increases in revenue are smaller than anticipated. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop, integrate and retain talented and effective sales personnel, if our new and existing sales personnel, on the whole, are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, countries in certain international regions in which we operate have continued to experience weaknesses in their currency, banking, and equity markets. These weaknesses could adversely affect customer demand for our software solutions and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with doing business in China. We face increased regulatory uncertainties with respect to our China-based operations, including our wholly foreign-owned enterprise operating in China, any joint ventures we may form or contribute IP or other resources to in the future and sales to China-based customers. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, 18% and 23% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from our customers in China. Our operating expenses in China were $3.4 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. 20 Table of Contents On June 3, 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order 14032 (Addressing the Threat from Securities Investments that Finance Certain Companies of the Peoples Republic of China) targeting entities that are deemed part of the Chinese military-industrial complex. Additionally, on October 7, 2022, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS), issued new export controls related to the Chinese semiconductor manufacturing, advanced computing and supercomputer industries. The new export controls impose broad end-use and other restrictions on facilities in China that develop or produce semiconductor chips or manufacturing equipment, which may impact our ability to license or support our software solutions to entities in or doing business with certain advanced AI or supercomputer design companies, foundries and manufacturers of assemblies and components in China. In addition, in October 2023 and December 2024, BIS tightened restrictions and compliance burdens on the transfer to China (including Macau) of certain advanced artificial intelligence chips, semiconductors and supercomputing items, software and technology subject to U.S. export controls, in addition to restricting sales to certain semiconductor fab facilities in China. Moreover, restrictions were implemented on U.S. persons activities in support of the transfer of certain items not subject to U.S. export controls. The extraordinary complexity of these rules, combined with the likelihood of further amendments from BIS, significantly increases our risk of non-compliance, which could result in fines and other penalties, and could change how these rules impact us. While we continue to adjust our policies and practices to ensure compliance with these regulations, and we will seek to mitigate their impact, there can be no assurances that current or future regulations and tariffs will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance with applicable trade control requirements, laws, and restrictions, including prohibiting the export, re-export or transfer of technology to companies on the Entity List maintained by BIS or other governmental restricted party lists, as well as prohibiting the sale of our products in certain countries. However, due to our global operations, we cannot ensure that our policies and procedures, including related safeguards, will effectively prevent violations, including the unauthorized diversion of products to countries or persons that are the target of U.S. sanctions; the export, re-export, or transfer of technology to companies on BISs Entity List or other governmental restricted party lists; failure to comply with rules related to import and export of products; appropriate import product classifications; or other trade accounting requirements, laws, and restrictions. On August 9, 2023, President Biden issued an executive order addressing investments by U.S. persons in companies located in designated countries of concern, currently, China (including Hong Kong and Macau) that engage with certain categories of sensitive technology and products, including semiconductors and microelectronics, quantum information technologies and AI. The executive order requires regulations that would implement limits and potential notification requirements on such investments and was accompanied by an advance notice of proposed rule-making that outlines the intended scope of the program and solicits input from the public regarding the implementation of the executive order. There are no currently effective restrictions or notification requirements; further rule-making is needed to implement the executive order. While we believe it is possible that such regulations may impact our customers, our suppliers, or our business with respect to China, given the uncertainties with respect to the timing and ultimate requirements of these regulations, we are unable to assess the extent of any such impact. Further U.S. government escalation of restrictions related to China and increased restrictions on Chinese exports may lead to regulatory retaliation by the Chinese government and possibly further escalate geopolitical tensions, and any such scenarios may adversely impact our business. Furthermore, we may, in the future, develop or sell software solutions that are subject to such rules and restrictions. In addition, such export control rules may change or be expanded or interpreted to include the sale of our current software solutions. In addition, geopolitical disruptions among the United States and China could cause general market disruptions and subject our sales efforts in China to licensing restrictions in the future. The prospect of future export controls that are implemented in a similar manner may continue to have an ongoing impact on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. To the extent we are unable to license our software solutions or support to customers in China, our business, including our revenues and our prospects, would be adversely affected. Downturns or volatility in general economic conditions could harm our business. Our revenue, gross margin, and ability to achieve and maintain profitability depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for software solutions in the markets in which our customers compete. Weaknesses in the global economy and financial markets and any adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions that may occur in the future, including any recession, economic slowdown or disruption of credit markets, may lead to, lower demand for products that incorporate our solutions. As we have grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. As a result of the current economic slowdown, many companies are delaying or reducing technology purchases, which has had an impact on our visibility into the closing of new business, as opposed to our recurring business. This slowdown has also contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, reductions in sales, longer sales cycles, and increased price pressures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, countries in certain international regions in which we operate have continued to experience weaknesses in their currency, banking, and equity markets. These weaknesses could adversely affect customer demand for our software solutions and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our customers may fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements. 21 Table of Contents If our customers fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our agreements, including litigation and arbitration costs. The risk of these issues increases with the term length of our customer arrangements. Furthermore, some of our customers may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, which we have experienced in the past, or may pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our operations could be disrupted by geopolitical conditions, trade disputes, international boycotts and sanctions, political and social instability, acts of war, terrorist activity or other similar events, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Since we operate on a global basis, our operations could also be disrupted by geopolitical conditions, trade disputes, international boycotts and sanctions, political and social instability, acts of war, terrorist activity or other similar events. For example, as a result of the conflict between Israel and Hamas, Israel and other regional adversaries, including Hezbollah and Iran, have engaged in direct military hostilities. While we do not currently consider the conflict between Israel and its adversaries to have had a material impact on our business, the ongoing regional conflict could have a negative impact on the economy and business activity globally, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, in response to Russias invasion of Ukraine, the United States and certain other countries imposed significant sanctions and export controls against Russia, Belarus and certain individuals and entities connected to Russian or Belarusian political, business and financial organizations, and the United States and certain other countries could impose further sanctions, trade restrictions, and other retaliatory actions should the conflict continue or worsen. Our board of directors is responsible for overseeing the risks to our business, including risks related to the ongoing conflict between Israel and its adversaries and between Russia and Ukraine. Such risks include an increased risk of cybersecurity attacks, sanctions, risks related to our employees, service-providers and operations in the affected regions and supply chain disruptions that may affect our customers globally. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we generated $0.4 million an $0.6 million in revenues from the Middle East, respectively, including Israel. During the year ended December 31, 2024 we had no employees in the Middle East, and during the year ended December 31, 2023 we had only one employee located in the Middle East. While none of our revenue is derived from Russia or Ukraine, we have employees based in both countries and had, prior to the beginning of the conflict, offices in both countries. In response to the ongoing conflict, we recently closed our office in Moscow, Russia, and our office in Kyiv, Ukraine, has been temporarily closed. Our board of directors has received periodic reports from management regarding the impact of the conflict on us and considered whether such events have had, or are reasonably likely to have, a material impact on us. Unless and until the conflict in Ukraine is stabilized, we do not intend to reopen office locations in either country. As of December 31, 2024, we had 8 employees and 4 contractors in Ukraine, all of whom were working remotely. If our employees in Ukraine become subject to a military draft or are unable to work due to the ongoing conflict, the development of our next generation software could be delayed, which could negatively impact our business. We have taken security measures designed to help protect against cyber-attacks, security breaches and impermissible downloads in Russia and Ukraine. To the extent that our security measures do not timely detect or prevent such cyber-attacks, security breaches or impermissible downloads, we may be subject to a number of risks, including those risks discussed below in Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Information Technology and Data Privacy and SecurityIf our information technology systems, information, or other resources or those of third parties upon which we rely are or were compromised, we could experience adverse consequences resulting from such compromise, including but not limited to damage to our reputation and our business, exposure to liability, and material and adverse effects to our results of operations, potentially irreparably. It is not possible to predict the broader consequences of either the Israeli conflict or Russias invasion of Ukraine, including related geopolitical tensions, and the measures and retaliatory actions taken by the United States, and other countries in respect thereof as well as any counter measures or retaliatory actions by Russia or Belarus in response, including, for example, potential cyberattacks or the disruption of energy exports, which are likely to cause regional instability, geopolitical shifts, and could materially adversely affect global trade, currency exchange rates, regional economies and the global economy. The situation remains uncertain, and while it is difficult to predict the impact of any of the foregoing, the conflict and actions taken in response to either conflict could, but are not presently expected to, materially increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, reduce our sales and earnings, impair our ability to raise additional capital when needed on acceptable terms, if at all, or otherwise further adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenue comes from our international sales channels, and we have significant operations in numerous international geographies. As such, any adverse fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our performance. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, 63% and 70%, respectively, of our revenue was from international customers. We expect to continue to generate a significant amount of revenue through international sales in the future. Our international sales team sells our software solutions to new and existing customers, expands installations within the existing customer base, offers consulting services and provides the first line of technical support. The revenues and expenses associated with our international direct sales channels are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuations, including the potential of a stronger American dollar which has the potential of impacting our ability to compete internationally, and, as a result, our future financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates, including Korean Won, Chinese Yuan, and Japanese Yen. We currently do not hedge any of our foreign currency exposure. However, our financial strategies may include hedging practices aimed at mitigating risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations. However, if our hedging strategies are not executed accurately or if market conditions evolve unpredictably, it could result in significant financial misjudgments. This misalignment in our hedging approach could adversely impact our financial performance. Our ability to raise additional capital in the future may be limited and could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. Our ability to operate and expand our business depends on the availability of adequate capital, which in turn depends on cash flow generated by our business and future debt, equity or other applicable financing arrangements. We believe that our cash flow from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances will satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we have based this estimate on our current operating plans and expectations, which are subject to change, and cannot assure you that that our existing resources will be sufficient to meet our future liquidity needs. We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or other strategic transactions and/or unforeseen circumstances. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: market acceptance of our SIP and other solutions, and our IP deployment solutions; the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; the existence of opportunities for expansion; and access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain additional debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations and our ability to incur additional debt or engage in other capital-raising or other activities. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow and support our business and respond to business opportunities and challenges could be significantly limited. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, either directly or through adverse impacts on certain of our vendors and customers. Actual events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar risks, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. For example, on March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as receiver. Similarly, on March 12, 2023, Signature Bank and Silvergate Capital Corp. were each swept into receivership. Although we are not a borrower or party to any financial instruments with SVB, Signature Bank or any other financial institution currently in receivership, if any of the banks which hold our cash deposits were to be placed into receivership, we may be unable to access such funds. As of December 31, 2024, $2.4 million, or 12%, of our cash and cash equivalents were maintained with one financial institution, where our current deposits are in excess of federally insured limits. In addition, if any of our customers, suppliers or other parties with whom we conduct business are unable to access funds pursuant to such instruments or lending arrangements with such a financial institution, such parties ability to pay their obligations to us or to enter into new commercial arrangements requiring additional payments to us could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Software bugs or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain bugs or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies, and the likelihood of bugs or defects may increase for our business if we accelerate the frequency of its product releases. Customers have in the past identified bugs or defects in our products, and there can be no assurance that bugs or defects will not be found in the future in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. Product bugs or defects, including those resulting from third-party licensors, have in the past and may in the future affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. We are currently in receipt of a request from a customer for compensation as a result of alleged product bugs or defects, and there can be no assurance that we will resolve this matter, or any similar future complaint, in a manner that preserves the customer relationship and does not otherwise adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, any allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to license IP products from us. Any such bugs or defects or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, result in diversion of resources, damage to our reputation and subject us to liability for damages, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our employees, consultants and third-party providers have in the past and may in the future engage in misconduct that materially adversely affects us. Our employees, consultants and third-party providers have in the past and may in the future engage in misconduct that materially and adversely affects us. For example, a former employee in China impermissibly used our computers and software to write and configure software for other companies. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional failures to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, report financial information or data accurately, violate our internal security policies or duties of confidentiality or disclose unauthorized activities to us. Such misconduct could result in loss of proprietary information or trade secrets, legal or regulatory sanctions, loss of important business information and cause serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and any precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with these laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could result in the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, which could have a significant impact on our business. Whether or not we are successful in defending against such actions or investigations, if any of our employees, consultants or third-party providers were to engage in or be accused of misconduct, we could be exposed to legal liability, incur substantial costs, loss of proprietary information, our business and reputation could be materially adversely affected, and we could fail to retain key employees. Periodic reorganizations and adjustments to our sales force could temporarily impact productivity and adversely disrupt our sales. We rely heavily on our direct sales force. From time to time, we reorganize and make adjustments to our sales force in response to such factors as management changes, performance issues, market opportunities and other considerations. These changes may result in a temporary lack of sales production and may adversely impact revenue in future quarters. There can be no assurance that we will not restructure our sales force in future periods or that the transition issues associated with such a restructuring will not recur. Variations in actual sales activity from sales forecasts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We make many operational and strategic decisions based upon short-term and long-term sales forecasts. Our sales personnel continually monitor the status of all proposals, including the estimated closing date and the value of the sale, in order to forecast quarterly and annual sales. These forecasts are subject to significant estimation and are impacted by many external factors. For example, a slowdown in research and development spending or economic factors could cause purchasing decisions to be delayed. A variation in actual sales activity from forecast could cause us to plan or to budget incorrectly and, therefore, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or investments, our business could be disrupted because of acquisitions or investments and, depending on how we finance or fund such acquisitions or investments, we could use significant amounts of cash or incur substantial debt. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our software solutions offerings in order to support our long-term strategic direction, strengthen our competitive position, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to increase our investments in research and development to accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to our existing software solutions, supply new software solutions and services, and enhance our distribution channels. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. Over the past several years, we have completed ten such acquisitions of companies or strategic assets, and in the future, from time to time we will likely seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies. Any acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, as we have experienced historically. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our software solutions or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. For example, we have in the past and may in the future face challenges associated with the integration and migration of processes, including issue tracking, release procedures and standardization of license models, which can delay introduction of software solutions. We may be unable to successfully integrate previously acquired businesses and technologies or those acquired in the future, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: the inability to complete the acquisition or investment on commercially acceptable terms; the inability to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws and the resulting delay in consummating the acquisition; the risk that we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing software solutions and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the risk that we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenue if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew annual leases or software license updates and license support or, if we are unable to sell or license the acquired solutions to our customer base; unforeseen difficulties in legal entity merger integration activities that may result in legal and tax exposures or the loss of anticipated tax benefits; disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; the risk that our relationships with current and new employees, customers, partners and distributors could be impaired; difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies and overcoming any unforeseen technical problems with the acquired products or technologies; difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; difficulties in preserving and transitioning important licensing, research and development, and customer, distributor and supplier relationships; difficulties in implementing the appropriate