Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document and the documents incorporated in this document by reference contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this document and the materials accompanying this document are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. Frequently, but not always, forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the future tense and by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, may, could, would, projects, continues, estimates or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding our plans, intentions, beliefs, or current expectations. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements are the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date of this document and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events or otherwise. General BUSINESS As used in this report, each of the terms we, us, our, the Company and Simulations Plus refers to Simulations Plus, Inc. and Cognigen Corporation, unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires. OVERVIEW Simulations Plus, Inc., incorporated in 1996, is a premier developer of groundbreaking drug discovery and development software for mechanistic modeling and simulation. Our software is licensed to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical, and food industry companies and to regulatory agencies worldwide for use in the conduct of industry-based research. We also provide consulting services to these industries. Recently, we have been exploring the application of some of our machine-learning technologies for problems in aerospace and healthcare outside of our traditional markets. Simulations Plus is headquartered in Southern California and its common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol SLP. 21 In September 2014, Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary. The acquisition is expected to add approximately $5 million to our revenues for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015. Cognigen, incorporated in 1992, is a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Cognigens clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions. Cognigen has also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and provides consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and R&D productivity. We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of preclinical and clinical consulting services and software. Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, and physiology into our software have made us the leading software provider for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) modeling and simulation. We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific knowledge to guide discovery and preclinical development programs. They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial design, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients. PRODUCTS General Simulations Plus develops and produces software for use in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and we provide contract consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen, conducts high-quality analysis and regulatory report generation for data gathered during clinical trials of new and existing pharmaceutical products. Cognigen also has developed a proprietary software product called KIWI, which is used internally and by some of its customers to access data and analysis results on Cognigens internal computer cloud. Each business division is discussed separately below, followed by a discussion of the expected synergies from the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen. Simulations Plus We currently offer six software products for pharmaceutical research: three simulation programs that provide time-dependent results based on solving large sets of differential equations: GastroPlus, DDDPlus, and MembranePlus; and three programs that are based on predicting and analyzing static (not time-dependent) properties of chemicals: ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer, and MedChem Studio. We call the combination of ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer, and MedChem Studio our ADMET Design Suite. After years in development, our newest software product, MembranePlus, was released in October 2014. 22 GastroPlus Our flagship product and largest source of revenue is GastroPlus. GastroPlus simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of drugs administered to humans and animals, and is currently the most widely used software of its type in pharmaceutical companies worldwide, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and other countries. Because of the widespread use of GastroPlus, we were the only non-European company invited to join the European Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) program for Oral Bioavailability Tools (OrBiTo). OrBiTo is an international collaboration among 27 industry, academic, and government organizations working in the area of oral absorption of pharmaceutical products. Because we are outside of Europe, our participation in this project is at our own expense, while other members are compensated for their work; however, we are a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members. We believe participation in this initiative enables us to benefit from and to contribute to advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensures that we are in front of the audience of member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies. After the end of our 2014 fiscal year, in September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT) model within the Additional Dosing Routes Module of GastroPlus to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye. Under this RCA, we receive $200,000 per year. This RCA may be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project. During this reporting period, we submitted a proposal in response to a new request from the FDA for a similar RCA to investigate dosing of Long-Acting Injectable Microspheres. If awarded, this effort will also be funded for $200,000 per year for up to three years; however, we will not know whether we will be awarded a contract until August or September 2015. Version 9.0 of GastroPlus was released during the current reporting period. This is the largest single upgrade weve made to the program to date, and the expanded level of science and technology incorporated in this version adds valuable new functionalities that we believe provides the most advanced decision-making tool for preclinical and early clinical trial simulation and modeling analysis available today. Several of the significant enhancements include: ability to simulate the absorption and distribution of biologics (antibodies and proteins) ability to simulate dosing to the skin, including patches, creams, ointments, and subcutaneous injections tighter integration with our ADMET Predictor software to increase the utility of the program in early drug discovery. Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the best science into user-friendly software to enable pharmaceutical researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex drug behaviors in humans and laboratory animals. Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base earlier into both earlier drug discovery as well as expanded application in clinical trial data analysis within the pharmaceutical industry, while also helping us further penetrate the biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets. 23 DDDPlus DDDPlus simulates in vitro laboratory experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug and, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., tablet or capsule) under a variety of experimental conditions. This software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the dissolution rate for various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo conditions. A major upgrade to DDDPlus is in final stages of development and is currently expected to be released during 4QFY15 prior to August 31, 2015. MembranePlus MembranePlus is a new product that has been under development for a number of years, but was put on hold for several years due to other priorities. The development effort was revived in the past two years and the program was released in October 2014. Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK) as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA). The value of such a simulation derives from the fact that when the permeabilities of the same molecules are measured in different laboratories, results are often significantly different. These differences are caused by a complex interplay of factors in how the experiment was set up and run. MembranePlus simulates these experiments with their specific experimental details, and this enables scientists to better interpret how results from specific experimental protocols can be used to predict permeability in human and animals, which is the ultimate goal. We believe MembranePlus is unique and a number of customers have expressed interest in the program and sales are beginning to come in. We expect to see a gradual increase in sales for this new product, much like we experienced with DDDPlus in its introduction, as scientists learn what such a program can do for them. ADMET Predictor ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures as inputs and predicts approximately 145 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer. This capability allows chemists to generate estimates for a large number of important molecular properties without the need to synthesize and test the molecules, or to generate estimates of unknown properties for molecules that have been synthesized, but for which only a limited number of experimental properties have been measured. Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a companys chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio software. ADMET Predictor has been top-ranked for predictive accuracy in peer-reviewed, independent comparison studies, while generating its results at a high throughput rate. Although the state-of-the-art of this type of software does not enable identifying the best molecule in a series, it does allow early screening of molecules that are highly likely to fail as potential drug candidates (i.e., the worst molecules, which is usually the majority of a chemical library) before synthesizing and testing them. Thus, millions of compounds can be created and screened in a day, compared to potentially months or years of work to actually synthesize and test a much smaller number of actual compounds. This latest release of ADMET Predictor contains updated cytochrome P450 enzyme kinetics models that are seamlessly integrated into the recently released GastroPlus Version 9.0, enhancing the synergy between predicted properties and PBPK simulations. It also contains two new models related to human liver microsome (HLM) stability, an experiment that is routinely run on newly synthesized compounds in the pharmaceutical industry. The updated models illustrate our commitment to providing the best predictive models in the industry. 24 The ADMET Modeler subprogram that is integrated into ADMET Predictor enables scientists to use their own experimental data to quickly create proprietary high-quality predictive models using the same powerful machine learning methods we use to build our top-ranked property predictions. Pharmaceutical companies expend substantial time and money conducting a wide variety of experiments on new molecules each year, resulting in large databases of experimental data. Using this proprietary data to build predictive models can provide a second return on their investment; however, model building has traditionally been a difficult and tedious activity performed by specialists. The automation in ADMET Modeler makes it easy for a scientist to create very powerful models with a minimum of training. We are currently examining three applications of this machine learning engine outside of our normal pharmaceutical markets: (1) building predictive models for missile aerodynamic force and moment coefficients as a function of missile geometry, Mach number, and angle of attack, (2) classifying/identifying missiles from radar tracking data, and (3) classifying patients as healthy or experiencing some disease state or genetic disorder evidenced by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. Other potential applications for this modeling engine have also been identified; however, our focus to date has been in these three areas. The aerodynamic coefficient prediction problem was identified by the aerospace engineering department at Auburn University. Working with them, we have done some preliminary testing of the ADMET Modeler modeling engine for this type of problem. Results have been encouraging, and we believe there are government agencies and industrial aerospace companies that will find such a capability to be useful. To this end, we are developing a prototype AEROModeler program to test this concept and to use as a demonstrator for proposal efforts directed to potential funding agencies. A joint Simulations Plus/Auburn University scientific poster was accepted for presentation at the National Space and Missile Material Symposium/Commercial and Government Responsive Access to Space Technology Exchange (NSMMS/CRASTE) Conference in Huntsville, Alabama, in June 2014 and another in June 2015. Positive feedback both from government agencies and aerospace contractors was received at both meetings, not only for aerodynamic coefficient predictions, but also for application to several other potential problems of interest to the industry. We have also successfully applied the same technology to identify/classify missiles from radar tracking data in a proof-of-concept study. Identification of missile characteristics from radar tracking data can be a valuable tool, for example, in rapidly determining whether defensive countermeasures are needed for an observed launch, and if so, what type(s) of countermeasures are most appropriate. We presented at two aerospace conferences in June 2015 to further show what our technology can do for these new applications. The analysis of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data to classify patients as healthy or likely to experience a form of autism (in our first proof-of-concept case) has been developed in cooperation with the MRI Research Facility at Auburn University. This state-of-the-art facility has two MRIs a 3-Tesla machine and a 7-Tesla machine. The amount of data from MRI imaging is massive, requiring us to modify our code to handle much larger data arrays than our previous applications have required. Our current goal is to demonstrate the potential of our modeling technology to provide useful classification of a patient into one of four groups based only on MRI data, so that we can approach various agencies (such as the NIH) to obtain funding to develop a commercial product. We presented a scientific poster at the Fourth Biennial Conference on Resting State/Brain Connectivity held at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in September 2014 that received interest from a number of researchers working in this area. Although our recent Phase I Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) proposal to the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering did not result in an award, we believe other funding opportunities exist and that the results we have achieved are significantly better than results from other organizations published in the scientific literature. We believe our machine learning modeling engine has a wide variety of applications and we intend to pursue funding to develop customized tools based on the engine for a number of potential applications. 25 MedChem Designer MedChem Designer was launched in 2011. It was initially a molecule-drawing program, or sketcher, but now has capabilities exceeding those of other molecule-drawing programs because of its integration with both MedChem Studio and ADMET Predictor. We provide MedChem Designer for free to our customers because we believe that in the long run it will help to increase demand for ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio, and because most other existing molecule-drawing programs are also provided for free. Our free version includes a small set of ADMET Predictors best-in-class property predictions, allowing the chemist to modify molecular structures and then see a few key properties very quickly. With a paid ADMET Predictor license the chemist would see the entire 145 predictions that are available. Over 14,000 copies of MedChem Designer have been downloaded by scientists around the world. When used with a license for ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer becomes a de novo molecule design tool. With it, a researcher can draw one or more new molecular structures, then click on the ADMET Predictor icon and have over 145 properties for each structure calculated in seconds, including our proprietary ADMET Risk index. Researchers can also click on an icon to generate the likely metabolites of a molecule and then predict all of the properties of those metabolites from ADMET Predictor, including each of their ADMET Risk scores. This is important because a metabolite of a molecule can be therapeutically beneficial (or harmful) even though the parent molecule is not. Our proprietary ADMET Risk score provides a single number that tells the chemist how many default threshold values for various predicted properties were crossed (or violated) by each structure. The default rules can be modified and new rules can be added by the user to include any desired rule set based on any combination of calculated descriptors, predicted properties, and user inputs. Thus, in a single number, the chemist can instantly compare the effects of different structural changes in many dimensions. The ideal score is zero; however, a low score greater than zero might be acceptable, depending on what property(s) caused the points to be assigned. If the number is too high (greater than 5-6), the molecule is not likely to be successful as a drug. As chemists attempt to modify structures to improve one property, they often cause others to become unacceptable. Without ADMET Risk, the chemist would have to individually examine many key properties for each new molecule (and its metabolites) to determine whether any of them became unacceptable as a result of changing the structure. During fiscal year 2014, we released version 3.0 of MedChem Designer, which added the ability to capture the image of a molecular structure from a variety of publication files with a new snapshot tool, and then have the program automatically convert the graphic image into any of several computer-based chemical structure files. Converting from lines and letters on the screen to an exact chemical representation of the molecule (Optical Structure Recognition, or OSR) is a complex task. Although a few OSR programs are in existence, we are not aware of any that can accurately convert as many varieties of images to chemical representation as the OSR tool within MedChem Designer. Such a capability allows chemists to quickly capture molecular structures from the scientific literature, PowerPoint presentations, and other documents to use for various purposes, including for use in our simulation and modeling software programs. 26 MedChem Studio MedChem Studio is a tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules. In its data-mining role, MedChem Studio facilitates searching of large chemical libraries to find molecules that contain identified substructures, and it enables rapid generation of clusters (classes) of molecules that share common substructures from high-throughput screening (HTS) data. MedChem Studio version 4.0 was released during fiscal year 2014. While MedChem Designer can be used to refine a small number of molecules, MedChem Studio can be used to create and screen (with ADMET Predictor) a very large number of molecules down to a few promising lead candidates. MedChem Studio has features that enable it to generate new molecular structures using a variety of de novo design methods. When MedChem Studio is used with ADMET Predictor and MedChem Designer (which we refer to as our ADMET Design Suite), we believe the programs provide an unmatched capability for chemists to create and search through large libraries of compounds that have undergone high-throughput-screening experiments to find the most promising classes (groups of molecules with a large common part of their structures) and molecules that are active against a particular target. In addition, MedChem Studio can take an interesting (but not acceptable) molecule and, using a variety of design algorithms, quickly generate many thousands to millions of high-quality analogs (similar new molecules). These molecules can then be screened using ADMET Predictor to find molecules that are both active against the target as well as acceptable in a variety of ADMET properties. NCE Projects During late 2012, we initiated a new molecule (NCE, or New Chemical Entity) design project in which we used our own products to design novel molecules and have them synthesized and tested. Our goal was to demonstrate the ability of our ADMET Design Suite to generate new lead molecules in a fraction of the time and cost normally required in the pharmaceutical industry. We have conducted two NCE design projects. In the first, we designed molecules to test against the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum , and in the other we designed molecules to test against the cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) enzyme that is the target for Celebrex, while also inhibiting to a lesser extent the COX-1 enzyme that is the target for aspirin. Both projects were successful in that every one of the molecules we designed inhibited the malaria parasite or the COX-2/COX-1 enzymes. We believe these projects demonstrate that our ADMET Design Suite can save considerable time and money in developing new lead compounds for particular targets. We have generated revenue from new software sales that resulted from presenting our NCE project results. KIWI TM Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision making and submissions to regulatory agencies. To ensure high-quality analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science by being able to validate the results. KIWI is a cloud-based web application that was developed by our Cognigen subsidiary to efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated by pharmacologists and scientists over the duration of a drug development program. The validated workflow and tools within KIWI promote traceability and reproducibility of results. The pharmaceutical industry has been rapidly adopting cloud technology as a solution to ever-expanding computer processing needs. Leveraging our 20-plus years of experience in providing an architecture supporting modeling and simulation efforts, we have developed KIWI as a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment, enabling global teams to collaborate on model-based decision making. KIWI has proven to be a valuable platform for encouraging interdisciplinary discussions about the model development process and interpretation of results. We continue to receive positive feedback about the functionality implemented in KIWI and the value of the approach we have taken to harness cloud technology. As Cognigen intends to continue to improve functionality and collaboration within the KIWI platform, the licensing fee is expected to be a source of recurring high-margin revenue for further development and growth. KIWI Version 1.3 was released in May 2015. This version of KIWI provides our user community with access to new features that accelerate completion of modeling projects by decreasing run times and facilitating the comparison and exporting of results across models. These features include dynamic comparisons of model parameter estimates and diagnostic plots, export of model run records for regulatory submissions, and accelerated infrastructure with the upgrade to the latest versions of NONMEM and Perl-speaks-NONMEM running in a 64-bit Linux environment. 27 Contract Research and Consulting Services Our employees have expertise in oral absorption and pharmacokinetics. They have been speakers or presenters at over 150 scientific meetings worldwide in the past four years. We frequently conduct contracted studies for large customers (including the five largest pharmaceutical companies) who have particularly difficult problems and who recognize our expertise in solving them, as well as for smaller customers who prefer to have studies run by our scientists rather than to license our software and train someone to use it. The demand for our consulting services has been steadily increasing, and we have expanded our Simulations Studies team to meet the increased workload. Our acquisition of Cognigen has resulted in increased demand for the consulting services of both companies. We currently provide software to the FDA under a Research Collaboration Agreement (RCAs) that was initiated in January 2011, and we are actively working with the FDA on two other RCAs: the one for the ocular model in GastroPlus described above under --GastroPlus, and two more described below. Our RCA with the FDAs Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) began in January 2011. FDA scientists are continuing to use ADMET Predictor/Modeler under this RCA to build predictive models for likely toxicities of food additives and contaminants from FDA data sets. Included early on in this effort was a special modification to ADMET Predictor requested by FDA scientists to allow the user to set a minimum value for specificity or sensitivity when building a model, and this became a standard part of the program available to all users. Sensitivity refers to how well a model identifies toxic (or any other property) compounds. A model that determined all compounds are toxic would have 100% sensitivity, because all toxic compounds would be labeled as such; however, all nontoxic compounds would also be labeled toxic. Specificity refers to how well a model distinguishes between toxic and nontoxic compounds. Increasing one usually results in decreasing the other. Depending on the purpose of the model, some scientists will prefer to train models that emphasize one statistic over the other. During fiscal year 2014, we entered into an RCA with the FDAs Office of Generic Drugs (OGD). The objective of this RCA, which also has a five-year renewable term, is directed toward the FDAs evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs ( in vitro-in vivo correlations), an approach to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) correlates laboratory ( in vitro ) dissolution experiments with the in vivo behavior of dosage forms better than traditional empirical methods. Also in fiscal year 2014, Simulations Plus was notified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that the company was awarded a $200,000 cooperative agreement to develop improved modeling and simulation capabilities for dosage forms designed to be applied to the eye. The initial award provides support for the first year of the project. Funding for a second and third year of effort, at $200,000 per year, is subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory progress of the project. 28 Cognigen We acquired Cognigen on September 2, 2014. Cognigen has a reputation for high-quality analyses and regulatory reporting of data collected during preclinical experiments and clinical trials of new and existing pharmaceutical products, typically working on 30-40 drug projects per year. The modeling analysis of clinical trial data that Cognigen performs is different from the modeling analysis offered by Simulations Plus; the former relies more on statistical and semi-mechanistic models, whereas the latter relies more on mechanistic models. Statistical models rely on direct observation and the mathematical equations are used to fit data collected across multiple studies along with describing the variability within and between patients taking a medicine when the mechanistic understanding of a medicine may not be fully understood. Mechanistic models are based on the detailed understanding of the human body and the chemistry of the drug and involve mathematical and scientific representation of the phenomena involved in drug dissolution/precipitation, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination. Collectively, the models guide drug formulation design and dose selection. At recent meetings held by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, such agencies emphasized an interest in bringing physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK a core strength of Simulations Plus) into clinical pharmacology (a core strength of Cognigen). We believe the combined strengths of Cognigen and Simulation Plus will uniquely position us at the forefront of model-based drug development going forward. Cognigen scientists are now using GastroPlus PBPK models frequently to support their consulting studies in addition to the more traditional NONMEM models used in clinical pharmacology. STRATEGY Our business strategy is to do the things we need to do to promote growth both organically (by expanding our current products and services through in-house efforts) and by acquisition. We believe in the Built to Last approach - that the fundamental science and technologies that underlie our business units are the keys both to improving our existing products and to expanding the product line with new products that meet our various customers needs. We believe the continued growth of our pharmaceutical software and services business segment is the result of steadily increasing adoption of simulation and modeling software tools across the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the expertise we offer as consultants to assist companies involved in the research and development of new medicines. We have received a continuing series of study contracts with pharmaceutical companies ranging from several of the largest in the world to a number of medium-sized and smaller companies in the U.S. and Europe. On July 23, 2014, we signed a merger agreement with Cognigen. The merger closed on September 2, 2014, and Cognigen became our wholly owned subsidiary. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. It is our intent to continue to search for acquisition opportunities that are compatible with our current businesses and that are accretive, i.e., adding to both revenues and earnings. The Companys financial performance has enabled the Company to maintain significant cash reserves while seeking merger candidates and continuing to invest in our marketing and sales activities in order to reach a wider customer base, as well as to distribute significant cash dividends to our shareholders, buy out the former royalty agreement with TSRL related to GastroPlus, and still have sufficient reserves to close the acquisition of Cognigen Corporation in September 2014. In the fiscal year ended August 31, 2014 we distributed $0.19 per share in dividends to our shareholders. In fiscal year 2015 we have distributed $0.05 per share in November 2014, February 2015, and May 2015. The Board of Directors will decide whether to approve the same dividend in August 2015 at its July 2015 meeting. We anticipate future dividends to be $0.05 per share per quarter; however, there can be no assurances that such dividends will be distributed, or if so, whether the amounts will be more, less, or the same as expected. Each quarter, the Board of Directors must approve each dividend distribution and may decide to increase, decrease, or eliminate dividend distributions at any time. 29 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended May 31, 2015 and 2014. The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Three Months Ended 05/31/15 05/31/14 Net revenues $ 5,942 100.0 % $ 3,741 100.0 % Cost of revenues 1,115 18.8 228 6.1 Gross margin 4,827 81.2 3,513 93.9 Selling, general and administrative 1,625 27.3 1,204 32.2 Research and development 348 5.9 235 6.3 Total operating expenses 1,973 33.2 1,439 38.5 Income from operations 2,854 48.0 2,074 55.4 Other income (32 ) (0.5 ) 15 0.4 Income from operations before taxes 2,822 47.5 2,089 55.9 (Provision for) income taxes (970 ) (16.4 ) (781 ) (20.9 ) Net income $ 1,852 31.1 % $ 1,308 35.0 % Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by 58.9% or $2.201 million to $5.942 million in the third fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2015 (3QFY15) from $3.741 million in the third fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2014 (3QFY14). $1.401 million of this increase was from revenues generated by our newly acquired subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation. Net revenues of Simulations Plus increased $801,000 or 21.4%, to $4.541 million in 2QFY15 from $3.741 million in 3QFY14. Software sales increased by 21.8% aided by an order that carried into the current fiscal quarter of approximately $250,000 that renewed in the first week of the third quarter. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $887,000 in 3QFY15 to $1.115 million from $228,000 in 3QFY14. A major portion of this increase was due to salary expenses of $485,000 added as a result of the Cognigen Acquisition. Cost of revenues for Simulations Plus increased $390,000 in 3QFY15 compared to 3QFY14. $125,000 of this increase was increased amortization expense associated with the TSRL agreement signed in May 2014 (see note 4). In addition, in 3QFY14 the company posted a $165,000 royalty benefit associated with the signing of the TSRL agreement. A significant portion of cost of revenues for pharmaceutical software products is the systematic amortization of capitalized software development costs, which is an independent fixed cost rather than a variable cost related to revenues. This amortization cost increased approximately $48,000 or 24%, in 3QFY15 compared with 3QFY14. The increase is related to our latest releases of GastroPlus and ADMET Predictor. As a result of these changes, cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue increased from 6.1% in 3QFY14 to 18.8% in 3QFY15. 30 Gross Margin Consolidated gross margin increased $1.314 million or 37.4%, to $4.827 million in 3QFY15 from $3.513 million in 3QFY14. $903,000 of this increase in gross margin is from Cognigen, which showed a 64.5% gross margin on $1.401 million in revenues. The remainder of the increase came mainly from the Simulations Plus margin on software sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $421,000 or 34.9%, to $1.625 million in 3QFY15 from $1.204 million in 3QFY14. The major increases in SG&A expense were: Cognigen Corporation SG&A Expenses, which were $494,000 for 3QFY15. Significant expenses for Cognigen for 3QFY15 were as follows: o Selling expenses: $28,000 o Amortization of customer lists and other intangibles: $37,000. o Depreciation Expense: $44,000. o Employee benefits: $82,000. o Software licensing: $43,000. o Payroll and payroll taxes: $182,000. o Rent: $47,000. Simulation Plus SG&A expenses were down $74,000 in 3QFY15 compared to 3QFY14 o Increases: Salaries: Increased $74,000 in 3QFY15, mainly due to increases in stock-based compensation, annual salary adjustments and related payroll taxes. o Decreases: Professional fees: Legal Fees decreased by $111,000 from 3QFY14 The Company incurred substantial legal fees in the 3QFY14 associated with legal review and negotiation of the TSRL agreement and the Cognigen acquisition. Selling expenses: Travel Costs: Decreased by $44,000 in 3QFY15, the result of less foreign travel compared to 3QFY14 Consulting Fees: decreased by $32,000. During 3QFY14 we were paying a business consultant related to our acquisition activities. Research and Development We incurred approximately $594,000 of research and development costs during 3QFY15. Of this amount, $246,000 was capitalized software development costs and $348,000 was expensed. In 3QFY14, we incurred $552,000 of research and development costs, of which $317,000 was capitalized software development costs and $235,000 was expensed. Other income (expense) Net other income (expense) in 3QFY15 decreased by $47,000 to a net expense of $32,000 from $15,000 of income in 3QFY14. This is due mainly to currency exchange losses in 3QFY15 caused by the strengthening US dollar. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $970,000 for 3QFY15 compared to $781,000 for 3QFY14. Our effective tax rate decreased to 34.4% in 3QFY15 from 37.4% in 3QFY14. The decreased rate is attributed to the effect of stock-based compensation deductions and tax credits in 3QFY15 and prior year true-up adjustments posted in 3QFY14. Net Income Net income increased by $544,000 or 41.6%, in 3QFY15 to $1.852 million from $1.308 million in 3QFY14. $256,000 of this increase to earnings came from our Cognigen subsidiary, with $289,000 increase from the parent. 31 Comparison of Nine Months Ended May 31, 2015 and 2014. The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Nine Months Ended 05/31/15 05/31/14 Net revenues $ 14,603 100.0 % $ 9,463 100.0 % Cost of revenues 3,239 22.2 1,168 12.4 Gross margin 11,364 77.8 8,295 87.6 Selling, general and administrative 5,304 36.3 3,380 35.7 Research and development 981 6.7 750 7.9 Total operating expenses 6,285 43.0 4,130 43.6 Income from operations 5,079 34.8 4,165 44.0 Other income (65 ) (0.4 ) 61 0.6 Income from operations before taxes 5,014 34.4 4,226 44.6 (Provision for) income taxes (1,662 ) (11.4 ) (1,423 ) (15.0 ) Net income $ 3,352 23.0 % $ 2,803 29.6 % Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by 54.3% or $5.140 million to $14.603 million in the first nine months of Fiscal Year 2015 (9moFY15) from $9.463 million in the first nine months of Fiscal Year 2014 (9moFY14). $3.807 million of this increase was from revenues generated by our newly acquired subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation. Net revenues of the Simulations Plus division increased $1.332 million or 14.1%, to $10.795 million in 9moFY15 from $9.463 million in 9moFY14. 9moFY15 software sales increased $1.055 million or 11.7% and training revenues increased $61,000 or 51% while analytical study revenues were up by $208,000 or 60% compared to 9moFY14. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased 177% by $2.070 million to $3.239 million in 9moFY15 from $1.168 million in 9moFY14. The majority of this increase was salary expenses of $1.525 million added as a result of the Cognigen acquisition. Cost of revenues for Simulations Plus increased by $504,000 in 9moFY15 compared to 9moFY14. Of that amount, $134,000 was due to increased software amortization costs, and $82,000 was due to increased labor costs associated with increased study activities plus another $28,000 of increased technical support costs. Simulations Plus saw a decrease in royalty costs of $149,000 for the first nine months, which was offset by increased amortization cost of $450,000 related to the TSRL agreement (see note 4). Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue increased from 12.4% in 9moFY14 to 22.2% in 9moFY15. The majority of this percentage change is a result of the blending of lower margins on Cognigens consulting services with Simulations Pluss higher margins that are based primarily on software license sales. 32 A significant portion of cost of revenues for pharmaceutical software products is the systematic amortization of capitalized software development costs, which is an independent fixed cost rather than a variable cost related to revenues. This amortization cost increased approximately $164,000 or 28% in 9moFY15 compared with 9moFY14. The increase is related to our latest releases of GastroPlus and ADMET Predictor. Gross Margin Consolidated gross margin increased $3.069 million or 37%, to $11.364 million in 9moFY15 from $8.295 in 9moFY14. $2.241 million of this increase in gross margin is from Cognigen, which showed a 58.9% gross margin on $3.807 million in revenues for 9moFY15. The remainder of the increase came mainly from software license sales and analytical studies. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $1.924 million, or 57% to $5.304 million in 9moFY15 from $3.380 million in 9moFY14. The major increases in SG&A expense were: Cognigen Corporation SG&A Expenses, which were $1.065 million for 9moFY15. Significant expenses for Cognigen for 9moFY15 were as follows: o Selling expenses: $64,000. o Amortization of customer lists and other intangibles: $111,000. o Depreciation Expense: $133,000. o Employee benefits: $264,000. o Software licensing: $126,000. o Payroll and payroll taxes: $574,000. o Rent - $141,000. Simulation Plus-Overall SG&A costs were up $366,000 in 9moFY15 compared to 9moFY14 o Increases: Consulting Fees: Fees were up $319,000 for 9moFY15 compare to 9moFY14. We paid $398,000 in one-time fees and expenses to our financial advisor/business broker related to the Cognigen acquisition. That one-time expense represented 2.7% of revenues and 7.5% of the SG&A costs for the period ended 9moFY15. Commission expense: We incurred commissions to our Japanese and Chinese dealers as they increased their sales. Commissions were up by $62,000. Employee benefits: increased by $37,000 due to increased medical insurance costs and higher 401K costs on increased salaries. Payroll and payroll taxes: increased $127,000 due to annual salary increases and an increase in administrative time associated with the Cognigen integration. o Decreases: Legal fees: We paid $13,000 in one-time legal fees during 9moFY15 to complete the activities related to the Cognigen acquisition; however, overall legal fees for 9moFY15 vs 9moFY14 decreased by $145,000. In 2014, we incurred legal fees associated with the buyout of the TSRL agreement (See Note 4), the review of proxy issues, and legal issues associated with the amendment of the Companys 2007 Stock Option Plan , and the Cognigen acquisition. Bonus Expense was $48,000 less in 9moFY15 compared to 8moFY14 due to a change in executive officer agreements and the timing of the 2014 bonus. 33 Research and Development We incurred approximately $1.957 million of research and development costs during 9moFY15. Of this amount, $976,000 was capitalized software development costs and $981,000 was expensed. In 9moFY14 we incurred $1.803 million of research and development costs, of which $1.052 million was capitalized software development costs and $750,000 was expensed. Other income (expense) Net other income (expense) in 9moFY15 decreased by $126,000 to a net expense of $65,000 from an income of $61,000 in 9moFY14. This is due mainly to currency exchange losses in 9moFY15 due to currency fluctuations caused by the strengthening US dollar. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $1.662 million for 9moFY15 compared to $1.423 million for 9moFY14. Our effective tax rate decreased to 33.1% in 9moFY15 from 33.7% in 9moFY14. Net Income Net income increased by $549,000, or 19.6%, to $3.352 million in 9moFY15 from $2.803 million in 9moFY14. As discussed above, we incurred one-time consulting costs associated with the Cognigen acquisition of $400,000. Without those one-time costs, net income would have increased by approximately another $280,000 to $3.632 million, an increase of 30% over 9moFY14. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital have been cash flows from our operations. We have achieved continuous positive operating cash flow over the last eight fiscal years. We believe that our existing capital and anticipated funds from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may open a revolving line of credit with a bank, or we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain expanded credit facilities. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If cash flows from operations became insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing was obtained, then management would restructure the Company in a way to preserve its pharmaceutical business while maintaining expenses within operating cash flows.