Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before investing in our securities. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and/or growth prospects. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical changes, artificial intelligence growth, and international operations. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. The risks described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report, the information incorporated herein by reference, and those forward-looking statements we may make from time to time. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Certain Risks Related to Our Marketplace and Environment Our ability to sustain or increase revenues will depend upon our success in entering new markets, continuing to increase our client base, and in deriving additional revenues from our existing clients. Our products are currently used primarily by modeling and simulation specialists in companies involved in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, agrotechnology, and cosmetics, as well as universities, hospitals, and government research organizations. One component of our overall business strategy is to derive more revenues from our existing clients by expanding their use of our products and services. In addition, we seek to expand into new markets, and new areas within our existing markets, by acquiring businesses in these markets, attracting and retaining personnel knowledgeable in these markets, identifying the needs of these markets, and developing marketing programs to address these needs. If successfully implemented, these strategies would increase the usage of our software and services by pharmacologists or pharmacometricians operating within our existing pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical clients, as well as by new clients in other industries. However, if our strategies are not successfully implemented, our products and services may not achieve market acceptance or penetration in targeted new departments within our existing clients or in new industries. As a result, we may incur additional costs and expend additional resources without being able to sustain or increase revenue. A decrease in, or resistance to, the acceptance of model-informed drug development and development by regulatory authorities or academic institutions could damage our reputation or reduce the demand for our products and services. In recent years, there has been a steady increase in the recognition by regulatory agencies and academic institutions of the role that modeling and simulation can play in the biopharmaceutical development and approval process, as demonstrated by new regulations and guidance encouraging the use of modeling and simulation in the drug development and approval process, which has positively impacted our business. Changes in government or regulatory policy, or a stagnation or reversal in the trend toward increasing the acceptance of and reliance upon use of computer modeling and simulation in the drug development and approval process, could decrease the demand for our products and services or lead our clients to cease use of, or to recommend against the use of, our products and services. This, in turn, could negatively impact our reputation and/or have a material adverse impact on our business prospects and results of operations. Increasing competition and increasing costs within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, drug development and services industry, and the life science market for modeling and simulation software and cheminformatics products may affect the demand for our products and services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients demand for our products is impacted by continued demand for their products and by their research and development costs. Demand for our clients products could decline, and prices charged by our clients for their products may decline, as a result of governmental regulations and/or increasing competition, including competition from companies manufacturing generic drugs. In addition, our clients expenses could continue to increase as a result of increasing costs of complying with government regulations and other factors. A decrease in demand for our clients products, pricing pressures associated with the sales of these products, and additional costs associated with product development, could cause our clients to reduce research and development expenditures. Although our products increase productivity and reduce costs in many areas, because our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. Health care reform and restrictions on reimbursement may affect the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and industrial chemical companies that purchase or license our products or services, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payers in the markets we serve to contain or reduce the cost of health care may reduce the profitability of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and industrial chemical companies, causing them to reduce research and development expenditures. Because some of our products and services depend on such research and development expenditures, our revenues may be significantly reduced. We cannot predict what actions federal, state, or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We face strong competition in the life science market for modeling and simulation software and for cheminformatics products. The market for our modeling and simulation software products for the life science market is intensely competitive. We currently face competition from other scientific software providers, larger technology and solutions companies, in-house development by our clients and academic and government institutions, and the open-source community. Rapid advances in AI and ML could also enable new or existing competitors to automate aspects of modeling, simulation or data analysis reducing demand for our proprietary tools or consulting services if we do not innovate at the same pace. Additionally, our clinical pharmacology business unit often competes for business not only with other clinical research organizations, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories in certain segments of our industry than we do and could have greater financial, technical, marketing, research and development, and other resources. We also face competition from open-source software initiatives, in which developers provide software and intellectual property for free over the Internet. In addition, some of our clients spend significant internal resources in order to develop their own software. Moreover, we intend to leverage our scientific informatics platform in order to enable our clients to more effectively utilize the vast amounts of information stored in both their databases and public data sources in order to make informed scientific and business decisions during the research and development process. This strategy could lead to competition from much larger companies that provide general data storage and management software. There can be no assurance that our current or potential competitors will not develop products, services, or technologies that are comparable to, superior to, or render obsolete, the products, services, and technologies we offer. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not adapt more quickly than we to technological advances and client demands, thereby increasing such competitors market share relative to ours. Increased competition could lead to price and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. Any material decrease in demand for our technologies or services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to price pressures in the markets we serve. The market for modeling and simulation products for the life science industry is intensely competitive. Although the average price of our software licenses has increased or remained relatively constant for fiscal years 2025, 2024, and 2023, we may experience a decline in the future. In response to increased competition, decrease in a need for our products and services and general adverse economic conditions in this market, we may be required to modify our pricing practices. Changes in our pricing model could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to avoid material impact on our financial position or results of operations resulting from claims or liabilities against us, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future. 16 Table of Contents We maintain insurance coverage for protection against many risks of liability. The extent of our insurance coverage is under continuous review and is modified as we deem necessary. Despite this insurance, it is possible that claims or liabilities against us may have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any insurance coverage, or adequate insurance coverage, when our existing insurance coverage expires and our premiums or coverage terms could change at renewal. Any negative commentaries made by any regulatory agencies or any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. Any negative commentaries made by any regulatory agencies or any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work, and our operating results. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, and fines. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our managements attention from the operation of our business, and damage our reputation. Our sales cycle is lengthy, and clients may delay entering into contracts or decide not to adopt our products or solutions after we have expended significant time and resources and supported evaluation by them of our technology, which could result in delays in recognizing revenue and negatively impact our results of operations. Ongoing negotiations and evaluation projects for new products, with new clients or in new markets may not result in significant revenues for us if we are unable to close new engagements on terms favorable to us in a timely manner, or at all. Unexpected delays in our sales cycle could cause our revenues to fall short of expectations. Further, the timing and length of negotiations required to enter into agreements with our clients and the ultimate enforcement of complex negotiated contractual provisions as we intended is difficult to predict. If we do not successfully negotiate certain key complex contractual provisions, there are disputes regarding such provisions, or if they are not enforceable as we intended, our revenues and results of operations would suffer. Further, if we were to incur significant effort and then fail to enter into final contracts with prospective clients, or if a contract is terminated earlier than expected, our revenues and results of operations could suffer. Many of our contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control, or we may underprice or overrun cost estimates with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses. Many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed-price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, and often at the discretion of the client. The loss, reduction in scope, or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a predetermined termination fee and irrevocably committed costs/expenses. Impairment of goodwill or intangible assets may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill, capitalized computer software development costs, intellectual property, and other intangible assets, on our Consolidated Balance sheets due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, input from accredited valuation consultants, reviews of projected future income cash flows, and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions might have increased or decreased the estimated fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets that could potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of goodwill or intangibles. To the extent goodwill or intangibles are impaired, their carrying value will be written down to their implied fair value and a charge will be made to our income from continuing operations. For example, in fiscal 2025, we recorded impairment charges related to Pro-ficiency following lower-than-expected performance and market capitalization decline. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Certain Risks Related to Our Operations Delays in the release of new or enhanced products or services or undetected errors in our products or services may result in increased cost to us, delayed market acceptance of our products, and delayed or lost revenue. To achieve market acceptance, new or enhanced products or services can require long development and testing periods, which may result in delays in scheduled introduction. Any delays in the release schedule for new or enhanced products or services may delay market acceptance of these products or services and may result in delays in new client orders for these new or enhanced products or services, or the loss of client orders. In addition, new or enhanced products or services may contain a number of undetected errors or bugs when they are first released. Although we extensively test each new or enhanced software product or service before it is released to the market, there can be no assurance that significant errors will not be found in existing or future releases. As a result, in the months following the introduction of certain releases, we may need to devote significant resources to correct these errors. There can be no assurance, however, that all of these errors can be corrected. We are subject to various risks associated with the operation of a global business. We derive a significant portion of our total revenue from our operations in international markets. Our global business may be affected by local economic conditions, including inflation, recession, and currency-exchange-rate fluctuations. In addition, political and economic changes, including the imposition of import restrictions or tariffs, geopolitical instability, international conflicts and terrorist acts, throughout the world may interfere with our or our clients activities in particular locations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Potential trade restrictions, exchange controls, adverse tax consequences, and legal restrictions may affect the repatriation of funds into the U.S. Also, we could be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of U.S. and foreign tax laws, import and export licensing requirements, and longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While our employees, distributors, and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in applicable U.S. and international tax laws or regulations and the resolution of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income-based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination could change if tax laws or tax rulings were to be modified. We are also subject to non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net-worth, property, and goods-and-services taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are appropriate, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Given the unpredictability of possible changes to the U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on our results of operations and cash flow, but such laws and regulations (and changes thereto) could adversely impact our financial results. Contract research services create a risk of liability. As a clinical research organization (CRO), we face a range of potential liabilities including, without limitation, that errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing; and risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients property, such as data, research models, records, work in progress, or other archived materials. 18 Table of Contents Contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is outside any contractual indemnification provision, or if a party does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or the damage is beyond the scope or level of insurance coverage. We also often contractually indemnify our clients (subject to a limitation of liability), similar to the way they indemnify us, and we may be materially adversely affected if we have to fulfill our indemnity obligations. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, involvement in intellectual property lawsuits is often very costly. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Accordingly, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time, and divert managements attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. We may seek to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new technologies of interest to our clients. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate license agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. We have employment agreements with our CEO, CFO, and certain of our other members of our leadership team that range from one to three years. If our CEO, CFO, or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific and technical and managerial personnel. While we have a strong record of employee retention, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the software, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may suffer. Over the years, we have expanded our business through acquisitions. We continue to search to acquire businesses and technologies and form strategic alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances, involve numerous risks which may include: difficulties in achieving business and continuing financial success; difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products, technologies, or pre-existing relationships with our clients, distributors, and suppliers; challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those which are materially different from our existing businesses and which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise; challenges of maintaining staffing at the acquired entities, including loss of key employees; potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller(s); the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; acquisitions that become dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders; new technologies and products developed by others which cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable; and risks that disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service, or product may result in litigation expenses and 19 Table of Contents dilution of our managements attention. In the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Conversely, a sustained weakening of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our business in certain foreign-currency markets, because while our exports may become more competitively priced abroad, revenues earned in foreign currencies would translate into fewer U.S. dollars, and costs incurred in U.S. dollars for foreign operations could rise when converted. Our quarterly and annual operating results fluctuate and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter or fiscal year are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations in any quarter or annual period have varied in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter or year to year. Our results of operations are influenced by various factors, many of which are out of our control, including without limitation: changes in the general global economy; the number and scope of ongoing client engagements; the commencement, postponement, delay, progress, completion, or cancellation of client contracts in the quarter; changes in client budget cycles; changes in the mix of our products and services; competitive pricing pressures; buying patterns of our clients; the costs and effects of potential acquisitions and integration thereof into or business; the timing of new product releases by us or our competitors; general economic factors, including factors relating to disruptions in the world credit and equity markets and the related impact on our clients access to capital; changes in tax laws, rules, regulations, and tax rates in the locations in which we operate; the financial performance of our investments; and exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct business outside the U.S., which exposes us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, amongst other risk, and could have a negative impact on our financial results. We operate on a global basis. As we continue to increase our international operations, our revenues and expenditures in foreign currencies are expected to become more material and subject to greater foreign currency exchange-rate fluctuations. Also, our foreign distributors typically sell our products in local currency, which impacts the price to foreign consumers. Additionally, SLP France's functional currency is the Euro. Future foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and global credit markets may cause changes in the U.S. dollar value of our purchases or sales and materially affect our revenues, profit margins, and results of operations, when converted to U.S. dollars. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could result in material foreign currency exchange-rate fluctuations and, as a result, our net earnings could be materially adversely affected. As we continue to expand international operations and increase purchases and sales in foreign currencies, we may utilize derivative instruments, as needed, to hedge our foreign currency exchange-rate risk. Our hedging strategies will depend on our forecasts of revenues, expenses, and cash flows, which are inherently subject to inaccuracies. Foreign currency exchange-rate hedges, transactions, re-measurements, or translations could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. A significant portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenues. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from year to year. As a result, in future quarters, our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which event our stock price would likely decrease. If our clients cancel their contracts or terminate or delay their clinical trials, we may lose or delay revenues and our business may be adversely impacted. Certain of our client contracts are subject to cancellation by our clients at any time with limited notice. Clients engaged in clinical trials may terminate or delay a clinical trial for various reasons, including the failure of the tested product to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, decisions to de-emphasize a particular product or forgo a particular clinical trial, decisions to downsize clinical development programs, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment, and production problems resulting in shortages of required clinical supplies. Any termination or delay in the clinical trials would likely result in a consequential delay or termination in those clients service contracts. We have experienced terminations and delays of our client service contracts in the past (although no such past terminations have had a significant impact on our results of operations), and we expect to experience additional terminations and delays 20 Table of Contents in the future. The termination of single-study arrangements could result in decreased revenues and the delay of our clients clinical trials could result in delayed professional services revenues, which could adversely impact our business. If our security is breached, our business could be disrupted, our operating results could be harmed, and clients could be deterred from using our products and services. Our business relies on the secure electronic transmission, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including clinical data, financial information, and other sensitive information relating to our clients, company, and workforce. As a result, we face some risk of a deliberate or unintentional incident involving unauthorized access to our computer systems (including, among other methods, cyberattacks or social engineering) that could result in misappropriation or loss of assets or sensitive information, data corruption, or other disruption of business operations. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from these studies. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm. In light of this risk, we have devoted significant resources to protecting and maintaining the confidentiality of our information, including implementing security and privacy programs and controls, training our workforce, and implementing new technology. We have no guarantee that these programs and controls will be adequate to prevent all possible security threats. We believe that any compromise of our electronic systems, including the unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of sensitive information, or a significant disruption of our computing assets and networks, would adversely affect our reputation and our ability to fulfill contractual obligations, and would require us to devote significant financial and other resources to mitigate such problems, and could increase our future cybersecurity costs. Moreover, unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of such sensitive information could result in contractual or other liability. In addition, any real or perceived compromise of our security or disclosure of sensitive information may result in lost revenues by deterring clients from using or purchasing our products and services in the future or prompting them to use competing service providers. Changes in and/or failure to comply with applicable data privacy laws, regulations, and interpretations of such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance. The collection, use, disclosure, storage, disposal, protection and other processing of information about individuals, in particular healthcare data and sensitive personal information, is highly regulated in the United States, EU, and other jurisdictions, including but not limited to, under the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) and other U.S. privacy, security and breach notification and healthcare information laws; the EU GDPR and its national implementing laws; the UK GDPR, data privacy laws in other countries around the world (e.g., Chinas PIPL), as well as data privacy laws in individual states in the U.S. (e.g., the California Consumer Privacy and Protection Act (CCPA), the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), the New York State Personal Privacy Protection Law (PPPL) and the New York Privacy Act (NYPA)) which has been proposed and is currently pending legislative approval. Although we require our clients who send their clinical data to us for analyses to provide it in de-identified form within the meaning of HIPAA, in certain parts of our business, such as in conjunction with certain services we offer clients, we may process personal information relating to persons who have been, are, and may in the future be involved in clinical trials. The collection, retention, use, disclosure, and other processing of such personal information is governed, by the applicable data privacy and cybersecurity laws. While we do not consider our service offerings to generally cause us to be considered a covered entity under HIPAA, HIPAA does require the use of standard contract language in contracts with our clients who are covered entities under HIPAA which define our obligations to safeguard the protected health information of patients if provided by our covered-entity clients. We have adopted policies, practices, procedures, and training to safeguard the receipt, maintenance, processing, retention and transmission of such personal information. In addition to the laws specifically passed to regulate the processing of personal information, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys may generally interpret federal, state and local consumer protection laws to impose evolving standards for the handling and security of personal information. As noted above, certain states have also adopted or have proposed personal data privacy laws. For example, the CCPA, CPRA, PPPL and NYPA impose obligations and restrictions on businesses regarding their collection, use, and sharing of personal information of, as well as defining certain data privacy rights to, California and New York residents, respectively. Such data privacy rights include the right to access or have deleted their personal information that is processed by businesses and the right to opt out of certain sharing or processing of their personal information. Most state data privacy laws also impose monetary penalties for violations of the respective law. The interpretation and application of the new state 21 Table of Contents data privacy laws are still evolving, which provides some uncertainty. The EU GDPR and the UK GDPR also impose numerous requirements on companies that process personal data of residents from those respective jurisdictions, including requirements relating to processing health and other sensitive personal data, cross-border transfers, notice and consent, and contractual obligations with vendors and service providers who process personal data on behalf of a business. Both the EU GDPR and UK GDPR also provide individuals who are residents with certain data privacy rights with respect to an individuals personal data processed by a business such as, for example, the right of access, the right to rectification, the right to erasure, the right to restrict processing, and the right to data portability. The EU GDPR permits data protection authorities to impose significant penalties for violations of the EU GDPR including potential fines of up to 20 million or 4% of annual global revenues, whichever is greater. The UK GDPR provides for similar penalties for violations of the UK GDPR. The interpretation and application of these laws by the judicial systems are still evolving. Legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EU to the United States. Recently, the EU or UK and the U.S. agreed to a new Data Privacy Framework which will allow businesses to transfer data from the EU to the US in a secure and compliant way. We also currently rely on the standard contractual clauses with our clients to transfer personal data outside the EU to the U.S., among other data transfer mechanisms pursuant to the EU GDPR or the UK GDPR. While the standard contractual clauses and the new Data Privacy Framework have been determined to be adequate personal data transfer mechanism for transfer of personal information from the EU to the U.S. by some regulatory authorities, there remains the possibility that challenges will be raised to the sufficiency of such transfer mechanisms which has created uncertainty. In view of the trend for enactment of data privacy laws globally, we have implemented a comprehensive data privacy management program that includes physical, technological, and operational safeguards (such as policies, notices, processes, contractual provisions, and employee trainings) to help ensure that we process personal information about our employees and personal information received from our clients in a compliant manner. We have also appointed Margaret Richardson as our Data Protection Officer. As data protection laws expand in number and scope with relevance to the kinds of personal information we process, we may need to modify our data privacy program and practices, and incur additional expenses, to accommodate such expansion and adjustments. We rely upon a single internal hosting facility and Amazon Web Services to deliver certain solutions to our clients and any disruption of or interference with our hosting systems, operations, or use of the Amazon Web Services could harm our business and results of operations. Substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to provide our Service and Consulting solutions to our clients is located at our colocation facility located in New York. In addition to the colocation facility, Simulations Plus utilizes third-party cloud computing services from Amazon Web Services ("AWS") to help support our cloud-based solutions and provide training. Because we cannot easily switch our AWS-serviced operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations, and our business would be adversely impacted. Our systems and operations or those of AWS could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism or other unanticipated problems at the colocation or AWS hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Although SLP and AWS maintain backup facilities and disaster recovery plans in the event of a system failure, these may be insufficient or fail. Any system failure, including network, software, or hardware failure, which causes an interruption in the colocation data center or our use of AWS, or that causes a decrease in responsiveness of our cloud-based solutions, could damage our reputation, and cause us to lose clients, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our business may be harmed if our clients and potential clients believe our service is unreliable. Simulations Plus has developed a detailed Disaster Recovery Plan to mitigate any interruption. We rely on third-party cloud infrastructure and related services to deliver and operate our software platforms, and any disruption, limitation, or change in these cloud services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and 22 Table of Contents results of operations. Our software, adaptive learning, and analytics solutions depend on third-party cloud service providers for computing, storage, networking, and data management infrastructure. We currently use AWS and may also utilize other cloud providers for hosting, content delivery, analytics, and AI services. These cloud environments are critical to operating our platforms and storing large volumes of scientific, clinical, and commercial data. If any of these third-party providers experience interruptions, capacity constraints, cybersecurity incidents, or performance degradation, or if we or our clients encounter technical issues in connecting to their platforms, our software and services could become slow, unreliable, or unavailable. Even temporary outages could harm our reputation, trigger service-level penalties under client contracts, and cause clients to delay renewals or choose competing solutions. Because many of the services we use are proprietary to our cloud providers, we may have limited ability to quickly migrate workloads to alternative vendors without incurring substantial costs or service disruption. Our dependence on a small number of cloud vendors also exposes us to risks of pricing increases, changes in service terms, data egress or storage costs, and regional availability limitations. Additionally, cloud service failures can originate not only from the primary vendor but from underlying networks, software updates, or third-party subprocessors integrated into those environments. If our providers fail to maintain adequate security, availability, or compliance certifications (such as SOC 2 or ISO 27001), or if regulatory changes restrict cross-border data transfers or cloud usage for certain types of clinical data, we may need to re-architect or relocate infrastructure, resulting in additional expense and operational complexity. Any material disruption, data loss, increase in cost, or limitation in the performance, features, or availability of third-party cloud services could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and reputation. Defects or errors in our software applications could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us and impair our ability to market our solutions. Our software applications are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, some of which may be material. Errors may result from our own technology or from the interface of our cloud-based solutions with legacy systems and data which we did not develop. The risk of errors is particularly significant when a new product is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements of existing products are released. The likelihood of errors is increased when we do more frequent releases of new products and enhancements of existing products. We have, from time to time, found defects in our solutions. Although these past defects have not resulted in any litigation against us to date, we have invested significant capital, technical, managerial, and other resources to investigate and correct these past defects and we have needed to divert these resources from other development efforts. In addition, material performance problems or defects in our solutions may arise in the future. Material defects in our cloud-based solutions could result in a reduction in revenues, delay in market acceptance of our solutions, or credits or refunds to our clients. In addition, such defects may lead to the loss of existing clients and difficulty in attracting new clients, diversion of development resources, or harm to our reputation. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be impossible or impractical. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. If we are not able to reliably meet our data storage and management requirements, or if we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, client satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed, and client contracts may be terminated. As part of our current business model, we deliver our software over the Internet and store and manage hundreds of terabytes of data for our clients, resulting in substantial information technology infrastructure and ongoing technological challenges, which we expect to continue to increase over time. If we do not reliably meet these data storage and management requirements, or if we experience any failure or interruption in the delivery of our services over the Internet, client satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed, leading to reduced revenues and increased expenses. Our hosting services are subject to service-level agreements and, if we fail to meet guaranteed service or performance levels, we could be subject to client credits or termination of these client contracts. If the cost of meeting these data storage and management requirements increases, our results of operations could be harmed. Some of our software solutions and services utilize open-source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open-source licenses could adversely affect our business. Some of our software solutions utilize software covered by open-source licenses. Open-source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable, and is used by our development team to reduce development costs to speed up the development process. Certain open-source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open-source software as a component of the users software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the users software. In 23 Table of Contents addition, certain open-source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open-source code available to others on unfavorable terms or at no cost. This can subject previously proprietary software to open-source license terms. While we monitor the use of all open-source software in our products, processes, and technology and try to ensure that no open-source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose or make available the source code to the related product or solution, such use could inadvertently occur. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to adequately enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success is heavily dependent upon our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, and unfair competition laws, as well as license and access agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, noncompetition, and assignment-of-inventions agreements. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology by third parties or may not be adequate under the laws of some foreign countries, which may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. This could make it difficult for us to stop infringement or the misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to protect our intellectual property may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation, and agreement terms that address noncompetition are difficult to enforce in many jurisdictions and may not be enforceable in any case. In addition, there remains the possibility that others will reverse engineer our products to introduce competing products, or that others will develop competing technology independently. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Current and future litigation against us, which may arise in the ordinary course of our business, could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We are subject to claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our clients in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Third parties may in the future assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and demand back royalties or demand that we license their technology. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert managements attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. Insurance may not cover such claims, may not be sufficient for one or more such claims, and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, negatively affecting our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our products or services or our clients use of our products or services. Any failure or errors in a clients clinical trial caused or allegedly caused by our products or services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by our clients or the clinical trial participants, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we are generally entitled to indemnification under our client contracts against claims brought against us by third parties arising out of our clients use of our products, we might find ourselves entangled in lawsuits against us that, even if unsuccessful, may divert our resources and energy and adversely affect our business. Further, in the event we seek indemnification from a client, a court may not enforce our indemnification right if the client challenges it or the client may not be able to fund any amounts for indemnification owed to us. In addition, our existing insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or may not be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large 24 Table of Contents claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. Our business depends on the clinical trial market, and a downturn in this market could cause our revenues to decrease. Some of our business depends on clinical trials conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies, CROs, and other entities. Our revenues may decline as a result of conditions affecting these industries, including general economic downturns, increased consolidation, decreased competition, or fewer products under development. Other developments that may affect these industries and harm our operating results include product liability claims, changes in government regulation, changes in governmental price controls or third-party reimbursement practices, and changes in medical practices. Disruptions in the world credit and equity markets may also result in a global downturn in spending on research and development and clinical trials and may impact our clients access to capital and their ability to pay for our solutions. Any decrease in research and development expenditures or in the size, scope, or frequency of clinical trials could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. As a public company, we are obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. As our business expands both organically and through acquisitions, we may be unable to effectively adapt our current systems to our changing business needs and may fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting which could impair our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act), and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and/or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure