Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document and the documents incorporated in this document by reference contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this document and the materials accompanying this document are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. Frequently, but not always, forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the future tense and by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, may, could, would, projects, continues, estimates or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding our plans, intentions, beliefs, or current expectations. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements are the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date of this document and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events, or otherwise. General BUSINESS OVERVIEW Simulations Plus, Inc., incorporated in 1996, is a premier developer of drug discovery and development software for mechanistic modeling and simulation, and for machine-learning-based prediction of properties of molecules solely from their structure. Our pharmaceutical/chemistry software is licensed to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical, cosmetics, and food industry companies and to regulatory agencies worldwide for use in the conduct of industry-based research. We also provide consulting services ranging from early drug discovery through preclinical and clinical trial data analysis and for submissions to regulatory agencies. Simulations Plus is headquartered in Southern California, with offices in Buffalo, New York, and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and Paris, France. Its common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol SLP. We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents and provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software. Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation, prediction of molecular properties from structure, and prediction of drugs to induce liver injury or to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 22 We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific consulting services to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs. They also use our software products and services to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generics industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients. Simulations Plus acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary in September 2014. Cognigen was originally incorporated in 1992. Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions. We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity. Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary in June 2017. The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and related scientific consulting services. In addition to the DILIsym software for analysis of potential drug-induced liver injury, DILIsym Services, Inc. also has developed a simulation program for analyzing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) called NAFLDsym. Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs. The GastroPlus PBPK software from Simulations Plus provides such information; thus, the integration of these technologies will provide a seamless capability for analyzing the potential for drug-induced liver injury for new drug compounds and for investigating the potential for new therapeutic agents to treat nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Since the acquisition, DILIsym has applied its mechanistic modeling resources in other disease areas including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and others. Simulations Plus acquired Lixoft as a wholly owned subsidiary on April 1, 2020. Lixoft brings to Simulations Plus its powerful software products, Monolix, Simulx and PKanalix, which can take a modeling project from data exploration to clinical trial simulations. In addition, Lixoft provides training and focused consulting services which can accelerate a pharmacometric study. Lixofts technologies were developed as a result of a research program led by Inria, on non-linear mixed effect models for advanced population analysis, pharmacometrics, pre-clinical and clinical trial modeling and simulation. PRODUCTS General We currently offer ten software products to support pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemicals, cosmetics, and consumer goods research and development: five simulation programs that provide time-dependent results based on solving large sets of differential equations: GastroPlus; DDDPlus; MembranePlus; DILIsym; and NAFLDsym; two programs that are based on predicting and analyzing static (not time-dependent) properties of molecules: ADMET Predictor and MedChem Designer; (the combination of ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer, and MedChem Studio is called our ADMET Design Suite); a program which is designed for rapid analysis and regulatory submissions of pharmacokinetic data called PKPlus; a program called KIWI from our Cognigen division that provides an integrated platform for NONMEM data analysis and reporting through our proprietary secure cloud; and, through our acquisition of Lixoft in March 2020, a platform focused on non-linear mixed effects modeling (NLME) for pharmacometrics called Monolix. GastroPlus Our flagship product, originally introduced in 1998, and currently our largest single source of software revenue, is GastroPlus. GastroPlus mechanistically simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and drug-drug interactions of compounds administered to humans and animals and is currently the most widely used commercial software of its type by industry, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and around the world. Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex compound behaviors in humans and laboratory animals. Already the most widely used program in the world for PBBM/PBPK modeling, the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research and development process, while also helping us to further penetrate biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets. We work to release updated versions of the program on an ongoing basis. In June 2019, we released Version 9.7 of GastroPlus. This version adds several important new capabilities, including improvements to population simulations, dissolution, absorption, PBPK models, and drug-drug interactions, among others. 23 The ability to add lysosomal trapping effect to PBPK tissues New mechanistic pregnancy PBPK model (with fetus compartment) Additional solubility inputs for different drug forms (crystalline, amorphous) New models of standard compounds (substrates/inhibitors/inducers) in DDI Module Expanded fed state conditions based on meal type New ability to allow different tissue model types (perfusion- or permeability-limited) between parent and metabolites or victim perpetrator in metabolite tracking/DDI simulations PK-PD model additions to PKPlus Module Updates to the dermal absorption (TCAT) model through Cosmetics Europe project New effect of immune response with intramuscular injection models Updated default populations for extensive, intermediate, and poor metabolizers based on specific genotypes Because of the widespread use of GastroPlus, we have been able to enter into collaborations with industry and government agencies to drive advances to modeling and simulation science. In all, Simulations Plus owns the intellectual property developed within the GastroPlus program, and updates are integrated into future versions and made available to clients: Ocular absorption model: in September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT) model within the Additional Dosage Routes Module of GastroPlus. The objective of this agreement was to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye. After a successful second year, the RCA was extended for two additional years in September 2016, with primary tasks completed in September 2018. Additional functionality was further requested by the FDA, and a new funded contract was awarded for the 2018-19 period. In May 2020, we were awarded a new grant from the FDA to support interspecies translation for ocular drug delivery in GastroPlus. Long-acting injectable (LAI) product models: in September 2015, we were awarded another RCA by the FDA to expand the capabilities of GastroPlus to simulate the dosing of long-acting injectable microspheres for both small and large molecules (biologics). Under this agreement, we developed simulation models to deal with the very slow dissolution/decomposition of the microsphere carrier material that gradually releases the active drug over periods as long as weeks or months. After a successful second year, the RCA was renewed for the third year in September 2017 and was completed in September 2018. In September 2019, we entered a new funded collaboration with a clinical-stage biotechnology company to develop an intra-articular (IA) delivery model, using much of the technology developed through the LAI collaboration with the FDA. This collaboration enhances the GastroPlus physiologically based biopharmaceutics (PBBM)/PBPK model for drug dosing into joints through IA injection products and incorporate a mechanistic model for different species and population groups that will allow for efficient evaluation of IA injection strategies. Transdermal absorption model: in July 2018 we entered into a research collaboration with a large European consortium to further develop and validate the mechanistic Transdermal Compartmental Absorption and Transit (TCAT) model in GastroPlus. This project contributes substantially to improvements in the program, specifically directed toward the predictions of local exposure within the skin layer following topical administration of various chemicals. In September 2018, we were awarded another funded RCA by the FDA to integrate drug product quality attributes into the mechanistic TCAT model in GastroPlus. This grant award focuses on the incorporation of drug product quality attributes into dermal physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models developed for dermatological topical dosage forms and transdermal delivery systems. Virtual bioequivalence trials: in October 2019, we entered a new funded collaboration with a large pharmaceutical company to develop the Virtual Bioequivalence (BE) Trial Simulator in GastroPlus. This collaboration will enhance the GastroPlus PBBM/PBPK platform to evaluate population and formulation variability on the BE of different products. We intend to improve virtual BE trial simulation methodologies and efficiently address regulatory concerns as model results are reviewed. 24 Oral absorption (ACAT) model: in November 2019, we entered a new funded collaboration with a large pharmaceutical company to modify the mechanistic oral absorption (ACAT) model in GastroPlus to support gastrointestinal disease research. This collaboration will enhance and advance understanding of local drug disposition in the gut tissue and improve the accuracy of drug concentration predictions to assist with the development of new therapies for gastrointestinal diseases. Unfunded research collaborations: in addition to the active funded efforts with the FDA described above, we also have two unfunded RCAs with the FDA: one with the Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) that began in 2014, and one announced in July 2019 with the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM). With OGD, the objective is directed toward the FDAs evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs ( in vitro-in vivo correlations) to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) can relate laboratory ( in vitro ) dissolution experiment results to the behavior of dosage forms in humans and animals ( in vivo ) better than traditional empirical methods. With CVM, the objective is to use GastroPlus, with in vitro and in vivo data, to investigate how bioequivalence (BE) of non-systemically absorbed products can be evaluated in canines without the need for clinical endpoint trials. DDDPlus DDDPlus mechanistically simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug as well as, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions. This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the disintegration and dissolution rates of various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo (animal and human) conditions, and (4) justify product specifications. Version 6.0 of DDDPlus was released in January 2019 and offers a series of new capabilities, including: simulation of the in vitro dissolution of long-acting injectable dosage forms (funded by the FDA grant supporting GastroPlus development) simulation of the in vitro dissolution of controlled release bead formulations new simulation of artificial stomach-duodenum (ASD) experiments ability to fit models from precipitation experiments new dissolution apparatus models improved output reporting MembranePlus Like DDDPlus, MembranePlus mechanistically simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability or clearance of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as hepatocytes. The value of such simulations derives from the fact that when the same molecules are measured in different laboratories using (supposedly) the same experimental conditions, the results are often significantly different. These differences are caused by a complex interplay of factors in how the experiment was set up and run. MembranePlus simulates these experiments with their specific experimental details, and this enables scientists to better interpret how results from specific experimental protocols can be used to predict permeability or clearance mechanisms in human and animals. PKPlus The standalone PKPlus program, based on the internal PKPlus Module in GastroPlus that has been available since 2000, provides the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for NCA as well as providing limited support for compartmental PK modeling. PKPlus version 2.5 was released in July 2019. This new version incorporates a wide variety of requested features from current users, including: Import CDISC SEND packages with PC domain as source data Improved command line functionality 64-bit system optimization for improved performance Streamlined auto-reports Additional workflow refinements 25 In November 2019, we entered a new funded collaboration with a large pharmaceutical company to enhance the PKPlus software. Following a rigorous evaluation of multiple commercial offerings, our partner selected PKPlus as the pharmacokinetics/toxicokinetic (PK/TK) modeling program to support the internal data platform that connects their global teams. Our objectives for this project will be to design the next-generation engine that automates the import and mapping of data, selection of calculation templates, and generation of reports within a streamlined, validated system. ADMET Predictor ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a top-ranked, chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various formats) as inputs and uses machine learning technology to predict approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 200,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer. This capability allows chemists to generate estimates for a large number of important molecular properties without the need to synthesize and test the molecules, as well as to generate estimates of unknown properties for molecules that have been synthesized, but for which only a limited number of experimental properties have been measured. Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a companys chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing only their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio Module. The optional ADMET Modeler Module in ADMET Predictor enables scientists to use their own experimental data to quickly create proprietary high-quality predictive models using the same powerful artificial intelligence (AI) engine we use to build our top-ranked property predictions. Version 9.5 of ADMET Predictor was released in April 2019, adding: Novel approaches to calculate uncertainty estimates on all regression models New machine learning models for important metabolism and transporter endpoints New machine learning models for AMES mutagenicity, a primary toxicity endpoint required during risk assessment New Structure Sensitivity Analysis visualization tool to easily map atom-level contributions to model predictions Improved rat-specific models to more accurately inform HTPK Simulation predictions Improved Pipeline Pilot and KNIME components to extend deployment options and enterprise support for ADMET Predictor Updates to output displays in MedChem Designer We have made significant investments in two key areas with recent versions: improving integration of our top-ranked ADMET Predictor and GastroPlus models to leverage our novel Discovery PBPK approaches for chemists and safety researchers, and further enhancing our best-in-class machine learning engine to assist with drug discovery. Recent publications from pharmaceutical and chemical companies describing how they have leveraged our Discovery PBPK methods to guide lead optimization and risk assessment illustrate how our unique offerings provide substantial value in these spaces. Drug discovery workflows: in December 2019, we entered into a new collaboration agreement with Bayer AG to advance our ADMET Predictor machine learning software for use within integrated drug discovery workflows by developing improved structure and tautomer handling capabilities that will support data integrity across the different discovery platforms. High-throughput pharmacokinetic (HTPK) simulations: in April 2020, we entered into a new collaboration agreement with a large pharmaceutical company to develop enhanced capabilities in our existing HTPK Simulation Module which will incorporate PBPK modeling into the partners discovery platform to support compound screening activities. Potential new markets for artificial intelligence (machine learning) We are currently investigating applications of our sophisticated artificial intelligence (machine-learning) engine. We believe our proprietary AI/machine learning software engine has a wide variety of potential applications and we intend to pursue funding to develop customized tools to further monetize our investment in this technology by expanding our markets beyond the life sciences and chemistry. In addition, we are examining a variety of expanded capabilities to add to the basic modeling engine to accommodate even larger data sets (big data analytics) and new applications. 26 MedChem Designer MedChem Designer was initially a molecule-drawing program, or sketcher, but now has capabilities far exceeding those of other molecule-drawing programs because of its integration with ADMET Predictor. We provide MedChem Designer for free because we believe that in the long run it will help to increase demand for ADMET Predictor. Over 33,000 copies of MedChem Designer have been downloaded by scientists around the world to date. Our free version includes a small set of ADMET Predictors best-in-class property predictions, allowing the chemist to modify molecular structures and then see a few key properties very quickly. When used with a license for ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer becomes a de novo molecule design tool. With it, a researcher can draw one or more molecular structures, then click on the ADMET Predictor icon and have approximately 150 properties for each structure calculated in seconds, including our proprietary ADMET Risk index which provides a single number that instantly compare the effects of different structural changes in many dimensions. Researchers can also click on an icon to generate the likely metabolites of a molecule and then predict all the properties of those metabolites from ADMET Predictor, including each of their ADMET Risk scores. KIWI Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision-making and submissions to regulatory agencies. To ensure high-quality reliable analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science with validated and reproducible results. KIWI is a cloud-based web application that provides scientists with a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment wherein they can efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated over the duration of a drug development program. KIWI enables global teams to collaborate on model-based decision-making and has been proven to support and encourage interdisciplinary discussions about the model development process and the interpretation of results. In addition to providing a structured workflow for model-based analyses, key features of the application include powerful visualization tools to support exploratory analyses, a data repository to facilitate management and organization of data and documents, and a Model Wizard module to streamline coding and model development. New versions of KIWI are released on a regular basis. KIWI Version 2 was released in December 2017, KIWI 3 was released in August 2018, and KIWI 4 was released in June 2019. In fiscal year 2020 to date, we have: further improved the visualization tools, introduced kiwiConnect, an R-based API to improve interaction and interconnectivity between R and KIWI, and completed a major update to the Oracle database infrastructure, including new hardware, additional storage, and increased bandwidth. We remain focused on further enhancing KIWI as part of our five-year, almost-$5 million contract with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. DILIsym The DILIsym software is a quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP) program that has been in development since 2011. QSP software models are based on the fundamental understanding of complex biological pathways, disease processes, and drug mechanisms of action, integrating information from experiments and forming hypotheses for the next experimental model. DILIsym deals with the propensity for some drug molecules to induce temporary or permanent changes in biological functions within liver cells (hepatocytes) that can result in damage to the liver (i.e. drug-induced liver injury or DILI). Version 8A of the DILIsym software was released in January of 2019. This version was delivered as a secure executable that incorporates new proprietary code enabling tighter integration with our GastroPlus PBPK software. A number of important new capabilities were added, including new exemplar compounds, new biomarkers, and new mechanisms of DILI. DILIsym version X is expected to be released in later Summer or early Fall of 2020. DILIsym X will be completely refactored into a much faster and more user friendly software tool. 27 NAFLDsym Where DILIsym is used to investigate the likelihood that a known drug molecule would cause injury to the liver, NAFLDsym is concerned with a liver that is already diseased (NAFLD/NASH) by excess fat, fibrosis, and inflammation, and investigates the likelihood that various molecules might provide beneficial therapeutic benefits to treat or cure the disease. DILIsym can be considered a shrink wrap software product, usable across many companies and drug development projects. NAFLDsym, on the other hand, requires modification for each of a number of different mechanisms of action that potential new drug compounds could use to treat the disease, and so is a customized tool used in consulting projects for each new client project. NAFLDsym version 2A was released in the summer of 2019 for licensing and consulting use. The software now includes the three most important components of NAFLD/NASH: steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis, along with a host of other important updates. RENAsym RENAsym will be focused on investigating and predicting drug-induced kidney injury, or acute kidney injury (AKI). RENAsym will be another shrink wrap software product, usable across many companies and drug development projects. The software will utilize predictions of drug exposure in the kidney from PBPK platforms such as GastroPlus, along with in vitro data related to certain kidney injury mechanisms, to make predictions. The first expected release of RENAsym will be available in summer of 2021. The initial development is being funded via an NIH small business grant. IPFsym IPFsym is a software tool that will investigate the likelihood that various molecules might provide beneficial therapeutic benefits to treat or cure idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). IPFsym, like NAFLDsym, requires modification for each of a number of different mechanisms of action that potential new drug compounds could use to treat the disease, and so is a customized tool used in consulting projects for each new client project. IPFsym is targeted for release for licensing and consulting use in late 2020. The software will include the most important mechanisms of IPF and will be closely coupled with GastroPlus for drug concentration predictions within the lungs. Monolix Suite The Monolix Suite is a unique solution for modeling and simulation for pharmaceutical companies, biotechs, and hospitals. It allows nonparametric analyses, population PKPD analyses and modeling and clinical trial simulation. The extended MonolixSuite contains three main products: Monolix, Simulx, and PKanalix. These products are interconnected and interoperable, i.e. the user can go from one application to another one without changing anything in terms of data set or of biological models. The products are used by many pharmaceutical companies across the globe at each step of the drug development, from preclinical, first-in-human, clinical and post approval. These products are well established in the community and have been accepted by many of the main regulatory agencies. Lixoft's technologies come from an eight-year research program in modeling and biostatistics led by Inria and sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry. The extended MonolixSuite was developed in view of the increasing importance of pharmacometrics experts in drug development, taking a modeling project from the first data exploration up to clinical trial simulations. Monolix Monolix (Non-linear mixed-effects models or MOdles NOn LInaires effets miXtes in French) is a platform of reference for model-based drug development. It combines the most advanced algorithms with unique ease of use. Pharmacometricians of preclinical and clinical groups can rely on Monolix for population analysis and to model PK/PD and other complex biochemical and physiological processes. Monolix is an easy, fast and powerful tool for parameter estimation in non-linear mixed effect models, model diagnosis and assessment, and advanced graphical representation. 28 Simulx Simulx is a powerful and flexible simulator for clinical trial pharmacometrics that runs on top of the Lixoft simulation engine. It allows to simulate any type of model output (continuous, event, categorical). It directly connects with Monolix for seamless Modeling and Simulation, or can be used as a standalone application to simulate a new model. The overview of possibilities includes comparison of different trial designs, extrapolation to different populations, non-adherence to treatment, optimal dosing, and dose individualization after therapeutic drug monitoring. Simulx is currently available via the comprehensive R package mlxR. Starting with the 2020 version, it will have a user interface to easily define groups of simulations as well as simulation outcomes to compare. PKanalix PKanalix performs analysis on PK data sets. Several analyses are performed including: the non-compartmental analysis (NCA), the compartmental analysis (CA) consisting in finding parameters of a model representing the PK as the dynamics in compartments for each individual. Notice that this compartment analysis does not include population analysis that could be performed in Monolix . PKanalix provides a clear user-interface with a simple workflow to perform NCA and CA analysis in an efficient way. Contract Research and Consulting Services Our scientists and engineers have expertise in drug absorption via various dosing routes (oral, intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, ocular, nasal/pulmonary, and dermal), pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and drug-drug interactions, and we conduct contracted consulting studies for customers (including many of the top twenty pharmaceutical companies) who have particularly difficult problems and who recognize how our expertise & technology can help solve them. The demand for our consulting services has been steadily increasing, and we have expanded our consulting teams to meet the increased workload. We have a reputation for high-quality analyses and regulatory reporting of data collected during preclinical experiments as well as clinical trials of new and existing pharmaceutical products, typically working on 80-100 projects per year. Traditionally, the model-based analysis of clinical trial data was different from the modeling analysis offered by GastroPlus or our quantitative systems toxicology/pharmacology software (DILIsym and NAFLDsym); the former relied more on statistical and semi-mechanistic models, whereas the latter is based on very detailed mechanistic models. Statistical models rely on direct observation and mathematical equations that are used to fit data collected across multiple studies along with describing the variability within and between patients. Mechanistic models are based on a detailed understanding of the human body and the chemistry of the drug and involve deep mathematical and scientific representation of the phenomena involved in drug dissolution/precipitation, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination. Collectively, the models support safety and efficacy decisions, first-in-human estimations, formulation optimization, and drug-drug interaction assessments. Beginning in 2014, the U.S. FDA and other regulatory agencies began to emphasize the need to push mechanistic PBPK modeling and simulation into clinical pharmacology, with final guidance documents completed in 2018, and we have seen the benefit of having our clinical pharmacology teams across all three divisions working together to achieve this goal. To date, there have been approximately 40 approved drug products on the market today whose submissions were informed by results from GastroPlus. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Development of our software is focused on expanding product lines, designing enhancements to our core technologies, and integrating existing and new products into our principal software architecture and platform technologies. We intend to continue to offer regular updates to our products and to continue to look for opportunities to expand our existing suite of products and services. To date, we have developed products internally, sometimes also licensing or acquiring products, or portions of products, from third parties. These arrangements sometimes require that we pay royalties to third parties. We intend to continue to license or otherwise acquire technology or products from third parties when it makes business sense to do so. 29 In 1997 we entered into an exclusive software licensing agreement with TSRL, Inc. (Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories) pursuant to which TSRL licensed certain software technology and databases to us, and we paid royalties to TSRL. On May 15, 2014, we and TSRL entered into a termination and nonassertion agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the 1997 exclusive software licensing agreement. As a result, the Company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that agreement, and we agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000. All payments were made as of April 2017. The total consideration is being amortized at a constant rate of $150,000 per quarter until it is completely amortized, after which no further expense will be incurred. To date, this has resulted in expense savings over $2,300,000 compared to the royalty payments that would have been paid to TSRL if paid consistent with past practices. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION We distribute our products and offer our services in North America, South America, Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, India, Singapore, Taiwan, Korea, and the Peoples Republic of China. We market our pharmaceutical software and consulting services through attendance and presentations at scientific meetings, exhibits at trade shows, seminars at pharmaceutical companies and government agencies, through our website, and using various communication channels to our database of prospects and customers. At various scientific meetings around the world each year there are numerous presentations and posters presented in which the reported research was performed using our software. Many of these presentations are from industry and FDA scientists; some are from our staff. In addition, more than 100 peer-reviewed scientific journal articles, posters, and podium presentations are typically published each year using our software, mostly by our customers, further supporting its use in a wide range of preclinical and clinical studies. Our sales and marketing efforts are handled primarily internally by sales and marketing staff and with our scientific team and several senior management staff assisting our marketing and sales staff with trade shows, seminars, and customer trainings both online and on-site. We also have independent distributors in Japan, China, India, and Korea who also sell and market our products with support from our scientists and engineers. We provide support to the GastroPlus User Group in Japan, which was organized by Japanese researchers in 2009. In early 2013, a group of scientists in Europe and North America organized another GastroPlus User Group following the example set in Japan. Over 1,000 members have joined this group to date. We support this group through coordination of online meetings each month and managing the user group web site for exchange of information among members. These user groups provide us valuable feedback with respect to desired new features and suggested interface changes. PRODUCTION Our pharmaceutical software products are designed and developed by our development teams in California, North Carolina (Research Triangle Park), New York (Buffalo), and Paris, France we also employee people who are able to work remotely using collaboration software. Our products and services are now delivered electronically we no longer provide CD-ROMs and printed manuals or reports. COMPETITION In our pharmaceutical software and services business, we compete against a number of established companies that provide screening, testing and research services, and products that are not based on simulation software. There are also software companies whose products do not compete directly with, but are sometimes closely related to, ours. Our competitors in this field include some companies with financial, personnel, research, and marketing resources that are larger than ours. Our flagship product, GastroPlus, is the most widely used commercial PBPK modeling platform and has one significant competitor; others could be developed over time, but with the high barrier to entry, it would be difficult to validate new software to levels required to support regulatory submissions. Our PKPlus software product competes with one major and a few minor software programs. MedChem Studio, MedChem Designer, and ADMET Predictor/ADMET Modeler operate in a more competitive environment. Several other companies presently offer simulation or modeling software, or simulation-software-based services, to the pharmaceutical industry. Lixofts Momolix Suite competes with a few established software products offered within the pharmaceutical software industry. We believe DILIsym and NAFLDsym enjoy a unique market position, with no significant competition. 30 Major pharmaceutical companies conduct drug discovery and development efforts through their internal development staffs and through outsourcing. Smaller companies generally need to outsource a greater percentage of this research. Thus, we compete not only with other software suppliers and scientific consulting service providers, but also with the in-house development and scientific consulting teams at some of the larger pharmaceutical companies. Although competitive products exist, both new licenses and license renewals for GastroPlus have continued to grow. We believe that we enjoy a dominant market share in this segment. We believe our ADMET Predictor/ADMET Modeler, MedChem Studio, MedChem Designer, DDDPlus, MembranePlus, PKPlus, KIWI, DILIsym, NAFLDsym and Monolix Suite of software offerings are each unique in their combination of capabilities and remain a focus of our marketing strategy. Based on our technical knowledge and expertise, the Company is strategically placed to offer modeling and simulation consulting services to companies. Our clients seek out our services for multiple reasons: (1) to acquire scientific, therapeutic area related or modeling expertise that they do not have in-house, (2) to address an excess of modeling and simulation requirements beyond the capacity of in-house resources, (3) to fulfill their modeling requirements more efficiently than they could do in-house, and (4) to utilize our software when they do not have the in-house expertise to do so. We apply our software and assist companies in such areas as: physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling (PBPK), pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) data analysis; and quantitative systems pharmacology/toxicology (QSP/T). We compete against numerous service providers, ranging from departments within large contract research organizations (CROs) to independent consulting organizations of various sizes as well as individual consultants . We believe the key factors in our ability to successfully compete in this field are our ability to: (1) continue to invest in research and development, and develop and support industry-leading simulation and modeling software and related products and services,(2) develop and maintain a proprietary database of results of physical experiments that serve as a basis for simulated studies and empirical models, (3) continue to attract and retain a highly skilled scientific and engineering team, (4) aggressively promote our products and services to our global market, and (5) develop and maintain relationships with research and development departments of pharmaceutical companies, universities, and government agencies. In addition, we actively seek strategic acquisitions to expand both our pharmaceutical software and services business. Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended May 31, 2020 and 2019. The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Three Months Ended 5/31/20 5/31/19 Net revenues $ 12,298 100.0% $ 9,937 100.0% Cost of revenues 2,665 21.7 2,324 23.4 Gross profit 9,633 78.3 7,613 76.6 Selling, general and administrative 5,023 40.8 3,087 31.1 Research and development 753 6.1 643 6.5 Total operating expenses 5,776 47.0 3,731 37.5 Income from operations 3,857 31.4 3,882 39.1 Other income (expense) (77 ) (0.6 ) (29 ) (0.3 ) Income from operations before taxes 3,780 30.7 3,852 38.8 Provision for income taxes (844 ) (6.9 ) (964 ) (9.7 ) Net income $ 2,936 23.9% $ 2,889 29.1% 31 Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by 23.8% or $2.36 million to $12.30 million in the third fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 (3QFY20) from $9.94 million in the third fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 (3QFY19). Changes by division are as follows: Lancaster: $703,000 increase, representing a 11.7% increase to $6.73 million Buffalo (Cognigen): $501,000 increase, representing a 19.7% increase to $3.04 million North Carolina (DILIsym): $535,000 increase, representing a 38.9% increase to $1.91 million Paris (Lixoft): Revenue for April and May 2020 totaled $622k and represented 5% of consolidated revenue for 3QFY20. Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $1.03 million or 17.65% over 3QFY19. Lixofts software sales accounted for $566k or 55.1% of this increase. Consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $1.33 million or 32.4% over 3QFY19. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $341,000, or 14.7%, in 3QFY20 to $2.67 million from $2.32 million in 3QFY19. Labor-related cost including subcontractor payments increased by $402,000 quarter over quarter, a combination of increased labor count, and salary increases. Direct expenses on contracts increased by $193,000 this fiscal quarter compared to the prior year but were offset by a decrease of $154,000 in travel and training expense. Royalty expense was $189,000 lower in the period due to the effect of the final determination and termination of the royalty agreement for the Metabolism Module. Amortization expense related to Lixofts developed technologies resulted in an increase in amortization of $84,000 in 3QFY20. Cost of Revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly by 1.7% in 3QFY20 to 21.7% as compared to 23.4% in 3QFY19. Gross Profit Consolidated gross margin increased $2.02 million or 26.5%, to $9.63 million in 3QFY20 from $7.61 million in 3QFY19. The Lancaster divisions gross margin increased $914,000 or 17.5%, resulting in a 91.2% gross margin percentage. The Buffalo divisions gross margin increased $374,000 or 28.1%, resulting in a gross margin percentage of 56.2%. DILIsym of North Carolina showed an increase in gross margin of $203,000 or 19.1%, resulting in a gross margin of 66.1%. Lixofts gross margin equaled $529,000 and accounted for 26.2% of the increase in consolidated gross margin. Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased by 1.7% to 78.3% in 3QFY20 from 76.6% in 3QFY19. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $1.94 million, or 62.7% to $5.02 million in 3QFY20 from $3.09 million in 3QFY19. As a percent of revenues, SG&A was 40.8% for 3QFY20, compared to 31.1% in 3QFY19. The major increases in SG&A expense were: o Selling expenses, including commissions and advertising, increased $76,000. o Legal and consulting fees increased $1.04 million due to services related to the acquisition of Lixoft. o G&A Salaries and Wages increased by $468,000; this increase is a combination of increased stock compensation costs, annual salary increases, and increased head count. o Payroll tax increased $160,000 due to an increase in headcount. o Vacation expense increased $127,000 due to increased headcount and increased vacation accruals as a result of COVID19 limitations on travel; employees were able to work from home and appear to not have followed normal vacation schedules. o Contract Labor increased $105,000 related to outsourced services and Director compensation. o Insurance Expense increased $140,000; mostly health-related medical costs due to cost increases and higher employee counts. 32 The major decreases in SG&A expense were: o Trade show costs and related travel expenses decreased $136,000. o Recruitment and hiring costs decreased $46,000. Research and Development Total research and development cost increased $293,000 in 3QFY20 compared to 3QFY19. In 3QFY20 we incurred approximately $1,359,000 of research and development costs, of this amount, $606,000 was capitalized and $753,000 was expensed. In 3QFY19 we incurred approximately $1,066,000 of research and development costs, of this amount, $422,000 was capitalized and $643,000 was expensed. Income from operations Income from operations decreased $25,000 or 0.7% in 3QFY20 compared to 3QFY19. Lancaster Decreased $526,000 or 17.3% Buffalo Increased $223,000 or 57.7% No. Carolina Decreased $38,000 or 8.3% Paris Lixofts income from operations equaled $316,000 and represents 8.2% of this quarters consolidated income from operations, this for the two months since acquisition (April 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020) Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was an expense of $844,000 for the 3QFY20 compared to a tax expense of $964,000 for the 3QFY19. The effective rate for the three months was an expense of 22.3% compared to 25.0% in the prior year. The rate differs from statutory rates mainly due to stock compensation costs recognized for tax purposes in 3QFY20. Net Income Net income increased by $47,000, or 1.6%, in 3QFY20 to $2.94 million from $2.89 million in 3QFY19. Comparison of Nine Months Ended May 31, 2020 and 2019 The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Nine Months Ended 5/31/20 5/31/19 Net revenues $ 32,049 100.00% $ 25,944 100.00% Cost of revenues 7,975 24.9 6,735 26.0 Gross profit 24,074 75.1 19,209 74.0 Selling, general and administrative 12,646 39.5 8,614 33.2 Research and development 2,027 6.3 1,897 7.3 Total operating expenses 14,673 45.8 10,511 40.5 Income from operations 9,401 29.3 8,699 33.5 Other income (Expense) (52 ) (0.16 ) (129 ) (0.5 ) Income from operations before taxes 9,349 29.2 8,570 33.0 Provision for income taxes (2,205 ) (6.9 ) (2,046 ) (7.9 ) Net income $ 7,144 22.3% $ 6,524 25.1% 33 Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by $6.10 million or 23.5% to $32.05 million in the first nine months of Fiscal Year 2020 9moFY20) from $25.94 million in the first nine months of Fiscal Year 2019 (9moFY19). Changes by division are as follows: Lancaster: $2,161,000 increase, representing a 14.0% increase to $17.56 million Buffalo (Cognigen): $1,281,000 increase, representing a 18.6% increase to $8.18 million North Carolina (DILIsym): $2,041,000 increase, representing an 55.9% increase to $5.69 million Paris (Lixoft): Revenue for April and May 2020 totaled $622k Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $2.19 million or 14.9%, with Lixofts software sales representing $566,000 or 25.9% of the consolidated increase. Consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $3.91 million or 34.7% over 9moFY19. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $1,240,000, or 18.4%, in 9moFY20 to $7.97 million from $6.73 million in 9moFY19. Labor-related costs accounted for $1,221,000 of this increase. Other significant increases in cost of revenues included $345,000 of direct contract costs. Royalty expense decreased by approximately $169,000 due to the termination of the royalty agreement for the Metabolism Module. In addition, travel expenses decreased by $166,000 during 9moFY20. Cost of Revenues as a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.08% in 9moFY20 to 24.9% as compared to 26.0% in 9moFY19. Gross Profit Consolidated gross margin increased $4.86 million or 25.3%, to $24.07 million in 9moFY20 from $19.21 million in 9moFY19. The Lancaster divisions gross margin increased $2.44 million or 18.9%, resulting in a gross margin percentage of 87.6%. The Buffalo divisions gross margin increased $567,000 or 15.5%, resulting in a gross margin percentage of 51.8%, and DILIsym of North Carolina showed an increase in gross margin of $1.32 million or 50.5%, resulting in a 69.2% gross margin percentage. Lixofts gross margin equaled $529,000 and represented 10.9% of the increase in consolidated gross margin. Overall gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased by 1.1% to 75.1% in 9moFY20 from 74.0% in 9moFY19. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $4.03 million, or 46.8% to $12.65 million in 9moFY20 from $8.61 million in 9moFY19. As a percent of revenues, SG&A was 39.4% for 9moFY20, compared to 33.2% in 9moFY19. The major increases in SG&A expense were: o Commissions expense: $160,000 representing a combination of commissions to distributors and to commissioned salespersons o Contract labor: $184,000 comprised of outsourced services and increased Director compensation program costs o Legal and consulting: $1.42 million related to the acquisition of Lixoft. o G&A Salaries and Wages increased by $1.14 million; this increase is predominantly a result of increased head count and salaries in Lancaster and Buffalo, and the related bonus and stock compensation costs. o Insurance expense $364,000; mostly health-related medical costs due to cost increases and higher employee counts o Payroll tax expense increased $315,000 for domestic and international employees o Vacation expense: $193,000 increase due to headcount and increased vacation accruals as a result of COVID19 limitations on travel; employees were able to work from home and appear to not have followed normal vacation schedules. 34 The major decreases in SG&A expense were: o Trade show costs and related travel expenses decreased $58,000 Research and Development Total research and development cost increased $501,000 in 9moFY20 compared to 9moFY19. In 9moFY20 we incurred approximately $3,760,000 of research and development costs, of this amount, $1,733,000 was capitalized and $2,027,000 was expensed. In 9moFY19 we incurred approximately $3,259,000 of research and development costs, of this amount, $1,362,000 was capitalized and $1,896,000 was expensed. Income from operations Income from operations increased $702,000 or 8.1% in 9moFY20 compared to 9moFY19. Lancaster Decreased $189,000 or 2.9% Buffalo Decreased $167,000 or 15.3% No. Carolina Increased $744,000 or 75% Paris Lixofts income from operations equaled $315,000 and represents 44.8% of the increase in consolidated income from operations, this for the two months since acquisition (April 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020) Other income (expense) Other income(expense) was an expense of $52,000 compared to expense of $129,000 in 9moFY19. Current year includes $81,000 of change in the value of contingent consideration for the two months since acquisition of Lixoft. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was an expense of $2.21 million for the 9moFY20 compared to an expense of $2.05 million for 9moFY19. The effective rate for the nine months was an expense of 23.6% compared to a expense of 23.9% in the prior year. Net Income Net income increased by $620,000, or 9.5%, in 9moFY20 to $7.14 million from $6.52 million in 9moFY19. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital have been cash flows from our operations. We have achieved continuous positive operating cash flow over the last ten fiscal years. We believe that our existing capital and anticipated funds from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may draw from our revolving line of credit with the bank, or we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain expanded credit facilities. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If cash flows from operations became insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing was obtained, then management would restructure the Company in a way to preserve its pharmaceutical business while maintaining expenses within operating cash flows.