ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This document and the documents incorporated in this document by reference contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this document and the materials accompanying this document are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. Frequently, but not always, forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the future tense and by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, may, could, would, projects, continues, estimates or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding our plans, intentions, beliefs, or current expectations. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements are the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on October 27, 2023, and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date of this document and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events, or otherwise. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. General BUSINESS OVERVIEW Simulations Plus, Inc., incorporated in 1996, is a premier developer of drug discovery and development software for modeling and simulation, and for the prediction of molecular properties utilizing both artificial intelligence and machine-learning-based technology. We also provide consulting services ranging from early drug discovery through preclinical and clinical development analysis and for submissions to regulatory agencies. Our software and consulting services are provided to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical, cosmetics, and food industry companies and academic and regulatory agencies worldwide for use in the conduct of industry-based research. The Company is headquartered in Southern California, with offices in Buffalo, NY; Research Triangle Park, NC; Pittsburgh, PA; and Paris, France. Our common stock has traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol SLP since May 13, 2021, prior to which it traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the same symbol. We are a global leader, delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and hospitals use our software programs and scientific consulting services to guide early drug discovery (molecule design, screening, and lead optimization), preclinical and clinical development programs, and the development of generic medicines after patent expiration, including using our software products and services to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new therapies and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, support the generic pharmaceutical product development industry, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as in elderly and pediatric patients. Results of Operations Table of Contents Comparison of Three Months Ended November 30, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands) Three Months Ended November 30, % of Revenue 2023 2022 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 14,500 $ 11,964 100 % 100 % $ 2,536 21 % Cost of revenue 4,652 2,671 32 % 22 % 1,981 74 % Gross profit 9,848 9,293 68 % 78 % 555 6 % Research and development 1,217 1,166 8 % 10 % 51 4 % Selling and marketing 1,989 1,485 14 % 12 % 504 34 % General and administrative 5,682 5,764 39 % 48 % (82) (1) % Total operating expenses 8,888 8,415 61 % 70 % 473 6 % Income from operations 960 878 7 % 7 % 82 9 % Other income, net 1,446 740 10 % 6 % 706 95 % Income before income taxes 2,406 1,618 17 % 14 % 788 49 % Provision for income taxes (461) (373) 3 % 3 % (88) 24 % Net income $ 1,945 $ 1,245 13 % 10 % $ 700 56 % Revenues Revenues increased by $2.5 million, or 21%, to $14.5 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to $12.0 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. This increase is primarily due to an increase of $1.5 million, or 25%, in software-related revenue primarily due to higher revenue from GastroPlus of $0.9 million and additional revenue from QSP Thales oncology model software of $0.7 million, as well as a $1.0 million, or 17%, increase in service-related revenue driven by the QSP services revenue of $1.1 million mostly due to the addition of Immunetrics services revenue, and higher revenues from PKPD of $0.3 million, offset by lower revenue from PBPK of $0.2 million. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues increased by $2.0 million, or 74%, for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022. The increase is primarily due to an increase of $1.9 million, or 105%, in service-related cost of revenue, driven by $1.2 million from the reorganization of our internal structure from divisions based on prior acquisitions to business units organized around key product and service offerings and $0.4 million from the acquisition of Immunetrics, which contributed to our services headcount. The new business unit structure is designed to optimize the utilization of our scientific talent in support of our revenue growth objectives. Gross profit Gross profit increased by $0.6 million, or 6%, to $9.8 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to $9.3 million, for the three months ended November 30, 2022. The increase in gross profit is primarily due to an increase in gross profit for our software business of $1.4 million, or 27%, reflecting the strong revenue growth and operating leverage of our software business, partially offset by a decrease in gross profit for our services business of $0.9 million, or 21%, reflecting the reorganization of our internal structure as well as additional services headcount from the Immunetrics acquisition. Overall gross margin percentage was 68% and 78% for the three months ended November 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Research and development We incurred $2.1 million of research and development costs during the three months ended November 30, 2023. Of this amount, $0.9 million was capitalized as a part of capitalized software development costs and $1.2 million was expensed. We incurred $2.1 million of research and development costs during the three months ended November 30, 2022. Of this amount, $0.9 million was capitalized and $1.2 million was expensed. Research and development spend remained relatively consistent with a slight increase of $0.1 million, or 5%, for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022. Table of Contents Selling and marketing expenses Selling and marketing expenses increased by $0.5 million, or 34%, to $2.0 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher marketing spend of $0.3 million, an increase in stock compensation of $0.1 million, and an increase of $0.1 million in sales commissions due to higher sales. General, and administrative expenses General, and administrative (G&A) expenses remained relatively consistent with a slight decrease of $0.1 million, or 1%, to $5.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to $5.8 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. Other income Total other income was $1.4 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to total other income of $0.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. The increase is primarily due to an increase in interest income of $0.5 million driven by an increase in interest rates as well as a decrease in the fair value of contingent consideration of $0.1 million related to the Immunetrics earnout liability. Provision for income taxes The provision for income taxes was $0.5 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. Our effective tax rate decreased to 19% mainly due to disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options for the three months ended November 30, 2023, when compared to 23% for the three months ended November 30, 2022. Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Unit Comparison of Three Months Ended November 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenues (in thousands) Three Months Ended November 30, 2023 2022 Change ($) Change (%) Software $ 7,589 $ 6,074 $ 1,515 25 % Services 6,911 5,890 1,021 17 % Total $ 14,500 $ 11,964 $ 2,536 21 % Cost of Revenues (in thousands) Three Months Ended November 30, 2023 2022 Change ($) Change (%) Software $ 991 $ 885 $ 106 12 % Services 3,661 1,786 1,875 105 % Total $ 4,652 $ 2,671 $ 1,981 74 % Gross Profit (in thousands) Three Months Ended November 30, 2023 2022 Change ($) Change (%) Software $ 6,598 $ 5,189 $ 1,409 27 % Services 3,250 4,104 (854) (21) % Total $ 9,848 $ 9,293 $ 555 6 % Software Business For the three months ended November 30, 2023, the revenue increase of $1.5 million, or 25%, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022, was primarily due to higher revenue from GastroPlus of $0.9 million and higher revenue from QSP Thales oncology model software of $0.7 million. Cost of revenues increased by $0.1 million, or 12%, during the same periods, and gross profit increased by $1.4 million, or 27%, for the three months ended November 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022. Services Business For the three months ended November 30, 2023, the revenue increase of $1.0 million, or 17%, compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022, was primarily due to higher revenues from QSP services of $1.1 million driven by the addition of Immunetrics services revenue, and an increase in revenues from CPP services of $0.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from PBPK services of $0.2 million. Cost of revenues increased by $1.9 million, or 105%, driven by $1.2 million from the reorganization of our internal structure from divisions based on prior acquisitions to business units organized around key product and service offerings and $0.4 million from the acquisition of Immunetrics, which contributed to our services headcount. The new business unit structure is designed to optimize the utilization of our scientific talent in support of our revenue growth objectives. Gross profit decreased accordingly by $0.9 million, or 21%, for the same periods. Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of November 30, 2023, the Company had $39.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, $74.1 million in short-term investments, and working capital of $121.1 million. Our principal sources of capital have been a follow-on public offering in August 2020 for $107.7 million and cash flows from our operations. We have achieved continuous positive operating cash flow over the last fourteen fiscal years. On December 29, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized and approved a share repurchase program for up to $50 million of the outstanding shares of our common stock, including the repurchase of up to $20 million of our outstanding shares through an accelerated share repurchase transaction. Under the repurchase program, shares may be repurchased at our discretion based on ongoing assessment of the capital needs of our business, the market price of shares of our common stock, and general market conditions. Repurchases may be made pursuant to certain SEC regulations, which permit common shares to be repurchased when we would otherwise be prohibited from doing so under insider-trading laws. There is no time limit in place for the completion of our share repurchase program, and the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Except as was required by the ASR Agreement (as defined below), we are not obligated to repurchase any shares under the repurchase program. We have funded share repurchases to date, and will fund future repurchases, if any, through cash on hand and cash generated from operations. On January 11, 2023, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the ASR Agreement) with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (Morgan Stanley) to repurchase an aggregate of $20 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. The ASR Agreement was executed as part of our existing $50 million share repurchase program. Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreement, we made an initial payment, using available cash balances, of $20 million to Morgan Stanley and received an initial delivery of 408,685 shares of Company common stock from Morgan Stanley. These 408,685 shares were retired and are treated as authorized, unissued shares. At final settlement on May 20, 2023, based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock during the term of the ASR Agreement, Morgan Stanley delivered an additional 83,356 shares of Company common stock to us, which shares were also retired and treated as authorized, unissued shares. After completion of the repurchases under the ASR Agreement, $30 million remains available for additional repurchases under our authorized repurchase program. On June 16, 2023, the Company acquired Immunetrics through a reverse triangular merger, pursuant to which Immunetrics became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As consideration for the acquisition, at closing, the Company paid the equity holders of Immunetrics a cash payment in the aggregate amount of approximately $13.7 million, and also paid the representative of the Immunetrics stockholders $250,000 as an expense fund to cover expenses that it incurs in its role as such (collectively, the Closing Payments). In addition to the Closing Payments, the Company held back $1.8 million to cover any negative working capital adjustments and Immunetrics indemnification obligations under the Merger Agreement (the Holdback Amount), the balance of which, less any deductions, if any, will be distributed to the Immunetrics stockholders after expiration of the applicable hold back period. Furthermore, the Company agreed to pay the Immunetrics equity holders an aggregate amount of up to $8.0 million in earnout payments, consisting of two payouts of up to $4.0 million each, if Immunetrics achieves certain revenue milestones for the calendar years 2023 and 2024 (the Earnout Payments, and together with the Closing Payments and Holdback Amount, the Merger Consideration). Pursuant to the agreement, we have up to 60 days after December 31, 2023 to calculate and notify the Immunetrics stockholder representative of the amount of the first earnout payment, if any, payable for year one under the Agreement, after which the Immunetrics stockholder representative will have up to 25 days to provide any objections to our earnout calculations. We will have five business days from the earlier of (i) the date that the Immunetrics stockholder representative confirms agreement with our calculations and (ii) 25 days from the date we notify the Immunetrics stockholder representative of the calculated amount of the first earnout payment, provided that we do not receive any objections or confirmation of our calculations from the Immunetrics stockholder representative prior to expiration of the period. We have not yet determined the final amount, if any, we will be required to pay under the first earnout payment; however, we intend to do so within the period provided under the agreement. We believe that our existing capital and anticipated funds from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, including to complete the remaining $30 million of repurchases available under our $50 million share repurchase program, if we so choose. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities. In the event that additional financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. Table of Contents We continue to seek opportunities for strategic acquisitions, investments, and partnerships. If one or more such strategic opportunities are identified, a substantial portion of our cash reserves may be required to complete it; however, we intend to maintain sufficient cash reserves to provide reasonable assurance that outside financing will not be necessary to continue operations. If we identify an attractive strategic opportunity that would require more cash to complete than we are willing or able to use from our cash reserves, we will consider financing options to complete the transaction, including obtaining loans and issuing additional securities. Except as discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Report), we are not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events, or uncertainties that are reasonably likely to result in a decrease in liquidity of our assets. The trend over the last ten years has been increasing cash deposits from our operating cash flows, and we expect that trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023. Our operating cash flows resulted in part from our net income of $1.9 million, which was generated by cash received from our customers, offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services and employee compensation. In addition, $3.3 million related to changes in balances of operating assets and liabilities was subtracted from net income and $1.5 million related to non-cash charges was added to net income to reconcile to cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2022. Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from our net income of $1.2 million, which was generated by cash received from our customers, offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services and employee compensation. In addition, $1.5 million related to changes in balances of operating assets and liabilities was added to net income and $1.9 million related to noncash charges was added to net income to reconcile to cash flow from operations. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $4.5 million during the three months ended November 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended November 30, 2022. $2.2 million of this change relates to accounts receivable, as the Company experienced strong cash collections from customers on older balances during the three months ended November 30, 2022. $0.8 million of this change relates to the Company's bonus payments, which increased during the three months ended November 30, 2023 due to growth in headcount and annual pay increases. $0.6 million of this change relates to the timing of our bi-weekly payroll such that 9 additional days were accrued for during the three months ended November 30, 2023. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2023, was $16.9 million, primarily due to the purchase of short-term investments of $30.5 million and computer software development costs of $0.9 million, offset by proceeds from maturities of short-term investments of $14.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2022, was $6.4 million, primarily due to the purchase of short-term investments of $29.5 million and computer software development costs of $0.9 million, offset by proceeds from maturities of short-term investments of $24.1 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2023, was $1.0 million, primarily due to dividend payments totaling $1.2 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options totaling $0.2 million. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended November 30, 2022, was $0.5 million, primarily due to payments on contracts payable of $0.8 million related to the Lixoft acquisition, and dividend payments totaling $1.2 million. Table of Contents Dividends Refer to Note 5 Shareholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Report) for details regarding dividends. Known Trends or Uncertainties We have seen some consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry during economic downturns, although these consolidations have not had a negative effect on our total revenues. Should customer delays, holds, program cancellations, or consolidations and downsizing in the industry continue to occur, those events could adversely impact our revenues and earnings going forward. We believe that the need for improved productivity in the research and development activities directed toward developing new medicines will continue to result in increasing adoption of simulation and modeling tools and consulting services such as those we provide. New product developments in our pharmaceutical business segments could result in increased revenues and earnings if they are accepted by our markets; however, there can be no assurances that new products will result in significant improvements to revenues or earnings. For competitive reasons, we do not disclose all of our new product development activities. The world has been affected by the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the conflict between Israel and Hamas, other geopolitical instability, and general economic uncertainty, amongst other things. Inflation has risen, Federal Reserve interest rates have increased, and the general consensus among economists suggests that we should expect a recession risk to continue for the near future. These factors, amongst other things, could result in further economic uncertainty and volatility in the capital markets in the near term, and could negatively affect our operations. Historically, we have paid cash dividends of $0.06 per share to holders of shares of our common stock on a quarterly basis. The declaration of any future dividends will be determined by our Board of Directors each quarter and will depend on earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, and other factors. Our continued quest for strategic acquisitions could result in a significant change to revenues and earnings if one or more such acquisitions are completed. The potential for growth in new markets (e.g., healthcare) is uncertain. We will continue to explore these opportunities until such time as we either generate revenues in these new markets or determine that resources would be more efficiently used elsewhere. Contractual Obligations The following table provides aggregate information regarding our contractual obligations as of November 30, 2023: (in thousands) Payments due by period Contractual obligations: Total 1 year 23 years 45 years More than 5 years Contracts payable(1) $ 6,470 $ 2,290 $ 4,180 $ $ (1) Contracts payable are related to our Merger Agreement that the Company entered into with Immunetrics on June 16, 2023. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay the former stockholders of Immunetrics earnout payments up to an $8.0 million, consisting of two payouts of up to $4.0 million each, subject to a potential catch-up increase in certain circumstances. Additionally, a portion of the consideration, in an amount equal to $1.8 million, which was held-back by the Company at closing to cover any negative net working capital adjustments (if any) and Immunetrics indemnification obligations under the Merger Agreement. Critical Accounting Estimates Estimates Table of Contents Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue primarily from the sale of software licenses and providing consulting services to the pharmaceutical industry for drug development. The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: i.Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer ii.Identification of the performance obligations in the contract iii.Determination of the transaction price iv.Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract v.Recognition of revenue when, or as, the Company satisfies a performance obligation The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance, and collectability of consideration is probable. Contracts generally have fixed pricing terms and are not subject to variable pricing. The Company considers the nature and significance of each specific performance obligation under a contract when allocating the proceeds under each contract. Accounting for contracts includes significant judgement in the estimation of estimated hours/cost to be incurred on consulting contracts, and the di minimis nature of the post-sales costs associated with software sales. Capitalized Computer Software Development Costs Software development costs are capitalized in accordance with ASC 985-20, Costs of Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Marketed. Capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility and is discontinued when the product is available for sale. The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment for recoverability of capitalized computer software development costs require considerable judgment by management with respect to certain external factors including, but not limited to, technological feasibility, anticipated future gross revenues, estimated economic life, and changes in software and hardware technologies. Capitalized software development costs are comprised primarily of salaries and direct payroll-related costs and the purchase of existing software to be used in the Companys software products. Total capitalized computer software development costs were $0.9 million and $0.9 million for the three months ending November 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Amortization of capitalized computer software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis on the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products, not to exceed five years. Amortization of software development costs amounted to $0.4 million and $0.4 million for the fiscal three months ending November 30, 2023, and 2022, respectively. We expect future amortization expense to vary due to increases in capitalized computer software development costs. We test capitalized computer software development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Intangible Assets and Goodwill The Company performs valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on each acquisition accounted for as a business combination and recognizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair value. Acquired intangible assets include customer relationships, software, trade name, and noncompete agreements. The Company determines the appropriate useful life by performing an analysis of expected cash flows based on historical experience of the acquired businesses. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, which approximates the pattern in which the majority of the economic benefits are expected to be consumed. Table of Contents Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired net assets. Goodwill is not amortized, instead it is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances change that would indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Events or circumstances that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, significant changes in the manner of the Company's use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the Company's overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, or significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future results of operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below or the same as an operating segment. As of November 30, 2023, after completion of the Company's internal reorganization, the Company determined that it had five reporting units: CPP, QSP, PBPK, Cheminformatics, and Regulatory Strategies. As of November 30, 2023, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, CPP and QSP. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. No impairment losses were recorded during the three months ended November 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Business Acquisitions The Company accounted for the acquisitions of Cognigen, DILIsym, Lixoft, and Immunetrics using the acquisition method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses, and cash flows, weighted-average cost of capital, discount rates, and estimates of terminal values. Business acquisitions are included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements as of the date of the acquisition. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred until technological feasibility has been established, or when the costs are for maintenance and minor modification of existing software products that do not add significant new capabilities to the products. These costs include salaries, laboratory experiment, and purchased software that was developed by other companies and incorporated into, or used in the development of, our final products. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, Income Taxes, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences in future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts at each year end based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The provision for income taxes represents the tax payable for the period and the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with ASC 718-10, Compensation-Stock Compensation. Under this method, compensation costs include the estimated grant-date fair value of awards amortized over the options vesting period. Stock-based compensation costs, not including shares issued to directors for services, was $1.3 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended November 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively.