Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis or Plan of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This document and the documents incorporated in this document by reference contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact contained in this document and the materials accompanying this document are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. Frequently, but not always, forward-looking statements are identified by the use of the future tense and by words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, will, may, could, would, projects, continues, estimates or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding our plans, intentions, beliefs, or current expectations. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements are the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report and elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made as of the date of this document and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect new information, subsequent events or otherwise. General BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company is a premier developer of groundbreaking drug discovery and development simulation and modeling software. Our software is licensed to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical, and food industry companies and to regulatory agencies worldwide for use in the conduct of model-based drug development and the study of environmental toxicants. We also provide consulting services ranging from early drug discovery through preclinical and clinical development and regulatory submissions. Recently, we have been exploring the application of some of our advanced machine-learning technologies for problems in aerospace and healthcare outside of our traditional markets. The Company is headquartered in Southern California, with offices in Buffalo, New York. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol SLP. We are also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions. We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and R&D productivity. 17 We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties of new molecules and the outcomes of clinical trials with pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents. We are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software. Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, computer science, pharmaceutical science, biology, and physiology into our software have made us the leading software provider for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) modeling and simulation. Our powerful machine-learning technology that has resulted in best-in-class predictions in pharmaceutical chemistry is now being successfully tested for solving several complex problems in the aerospace and healthcare industries. We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software, as well as creative and insightful consulting services. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific knowledge to guide discovery, preclinical, and clinical development programs. They also use it to enhance their understanding of the properties of potential new medicines and to use emerging data to improve formulations, select and justify dosing regimens, develop generic dosage forms, optimize clinical trial designs, and simulate outcomes in special populations, such as the elderly and pediatric patients. PRODUCTS General We currently offer seven software products for pharmaceutical research and development: three simulation programs that provide time-dependent results based on solving large sets of differential equations: GastroPlus, DDDPlus, and MembranePlus; three programs that are based on predicting and analyzing static (not time-dependent) properties of chemicals: ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer, and MedChem Studio (the combination of ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer, and MedChem Studio is called our ADMET Design Suite); and one program called KIWI that supports data analysis and reporting through our proprietary secure cloud. During the first fiscal quarter of FY2016, we announced the upcoming release of a new software product called PKPlus for noncompartmental and compartmental pharmacokinetic analysis and reporting, which is further described below. GastroPlus Our flagship product and currently our largest source of revenue is GastroPlus. GastroPlus simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of drugs administered to humans and animals, and is currently the most widely used software of its type in pharmaceutical companies, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and other countries. The U.S. FDA recently added 50 additional GastroPlus licenses to the 20 it already had, bringing the total to 70. Because of the widespread use of GastroPlus, we were the only non-European company invited to join the European Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) program for Oral Bioavailability Tools (OrBiTo). OrBiTo, begun in 2012, is an international collaboration among 27 industry, academic, and government organizations working in the area of oral absorption of pharmaceutical products. Because we are outside of Europe, our participation in this project is at our own expense, while other members are compensated for their work; however, we are a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members. We believe our investment to participate in this initiative enables us to benefit from, and to contribute to, advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensures that we are well-known to member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies. In September 2014, we entered into a research collaboration agreement (RCA) with the FDA to enhance the Ocular Compartmental Absorption and Transit (OCAT) model within the Additional Dosing Routes Module of GastroPlus. The objective of this agreement is to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye. Under this RCA, we receive up to $200,000 per year. This RCA may be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project. After a highly successful first year, the RCA was renewed for its second year in September 2015. 18 We were awarded another RCA by the FDA in September 2015, this time to expand the capabilities of GastroPlus to simulate the dosing of long-acting injectable microspheres. This type of dosage form is usually injected via subcutaneous or intramuscular routes, but can also be used for ocular dosing. Once again, this RCA provides up to $200,000 per year for up to three years. Under this agreement, we are developing simulation models to deal with the slow dissolution/decomposition of the microsphere carrier material that gradually releases the active drug over periods as long as weeks or months. In addition to the two funded efforts with the FDA described above, we also have an unfunded RCA with the FDAs Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) that began in 2014. The objective of this RCA, which has a five-year term, is directed toward the FDAs evaluation of mechanistic IVIVCs ( in vitro-in vivo correlations) to determine whether mechanistic absorption modeling (MAM) can relate laboratory ( in vitro ) dissolution experiment results to the behavior of dosage forms in humans and animals ( in vivo ) better than traditional empirical methods. In April 2015, we released Version 9.0 of GastroPlus. This was the largest single upgrade weve made to the program to date, and the added level of science and technology enabled valuable new functionalities that we believe provide the most advanced decision-making tool for preclinical and early clinical trial simulation and modeling analysis available today. Several of the significant enhancements include: ability to simulate the absorption and distribution of biologics (antibodies and proteins) ability to simulate dosing to the skin, including patches, creams, ointments, and subcutaneous injections tighter integration with our ADMET Predictor software to increase the utility of the program in early drug discovery. Our goal with GastroPlus is to integrate the most advanced science into user-friendly software to enable pharmaceutical researchers and regulators to perform sophisticated analyses of complex drug behaviors in humans and laboratory animals. Already the most widely used program in the world for physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK), the addition of these new capabilities is expected to expand the user base in the early pharmaceutical research & development process, while also helping us further penetrate the biopharmaceuticals, food, cosmetics, and general toxicology markets. We are now developing version 9.5 of GastroPlus, which will add a number of new capabilities and will refine and enhance some of the existing capabilities in the program, including intramuscular dosing, simulation of antibody-drug conjugates, additional animal physiologies, enhanced report generation, and enhancements to the PBPK tissue models. We expect to release version 9.5 before the end of FY2016. DDDPlus DDDPlus simulates in vitro laboratory experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug and, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, or capsule) under a variety of experimental conditions. This unique software program is used by formulation scientists in industry and the FDA to (1) understand the physical mechanisms affecting the dissolution rate for various formulations, (2) reduce the number of cut-and-try attempts to design new drug formulations, and (3) design in vitro dissolution experiments to better mimic in vivo conditions. Version 5.0 DDDPlus, which adds a number of significant enhancements to the capabilities of DDDPlus, is in final stages of development and is expected to be released in the third fiscal quarter of FY2016. This version will add new formulation types (controlled release bilayer tablet, delayed release coated tablet, and immediate release coated beads), expanded formulation specification options, biorelevant solubilities and surfactant effects on dissolution, tablet compression and disintegration models, links with GastroPlus, and update licensing. MembranePlus Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA). The value of such a simulation derives from the fact that when the permeabilities of the same molecules are measured in different laboratories using (supposedly) the same experimental conditions, the results are often significantly different. These differences are caused by a complex interplay of factors in how the experiment was set up and run. MembranePlus simulates these experiments with their specific experimental details, and this enables scientists to better interpret how results from specific experimental protocols can be used to predict permeability in human and animals, which is the ultimate goal. A few initial sales of MembranePlus have been made. Like DDDPlus was ten years ago, this program is a very new concept that requires educating scientists on how and why to use it, and our marketing and sales program has been tasked with providing that training. 19 PKPlus On October 15, 2015 we announced the upcoming release of a new standalone software product called PKPlus, based on the internal PKPlus Module in GastroPlus that has been available since 2000. The PKPlus Module in GastroPlus provides quick and easy fitting of compartmental pharmacokinetic models and noncompartmental analysis (NCA) for oral and intravenous doses. The original module was not designed to meet all of the requirements for performing these analyses and producing report-quality output for regulatory submissions. The new standalone PKPlus program is being developed to provide the full level of functionality needed by pharmaceutical industry scientists to perform the analyses and generate the outputs needed to fully satisfy regulatory agency requirements for both NCA and compartmental PK modeling. The program has been in development for about 20 months, and is nearing completion. We believe the potential number of users for PKPlus is large and that it has the potential to become one of our leading revenue producers. ADMET Predictor ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) Predictor is a chemistry-based computer program that takes molecular structures (i.e., drawings of molecules represented in various forms) as inputs and predicts approximately 150 different properties for them at an average rate of over 100,000 compounds per hour on a modern laptop computer. This capability allows chemists to generate estimates for a large number of important molecular properties without the need to synthesize and test the molecules, or to generate estimates of unknown properties for molecules that have been synthesized, but for which only a limited number of experimental properties have been measured. Thus, a chemist can assess the likely success of a large number of existing molecules in a companys chemical library, as well as molecules that have never been made, by providing their molecular structures, either by drawing them using a tool such as our MedChem Designer software, or by automatically generating large numbers of molecules using various computer algorithms, including those embedded in our MedChem Studio software. ADMET Predictor has been top-ranked for predictive accuracy in multiple peer-reviewed, independent comparison studies, while generating its results at a high throughput rate. Although the state-of-the-art of this type of software does not enable identifying the best molecule in a series, it does allow early screening of molecules that are highly likely to fail as potential drug candidates (i.e., the worst molecules, which is usually the majority of a chemical library) before synthesizing and testing them. Thus, millions of virtual compounds can be created and screened in a day, compared to potentially months or years of work to actually synthesize and test a much smaller number of actual compounds. The most recent release of ADMET Predictor (version 7.2, released in May, 2015) contains updated cytochrome P450 enzyme kinetics models that are seamlessly integrated into the recently released GastroPlus Version 9.0, enhancing the synergy between predicted properties and PBPK simulations and enabling discovery chemists a new group of potential users to use PBPK simulations. It also contains two new models related to human liver microsomal (HLM) stability, an experiment that is routinely run on newly synthesized compounds in the pharmaceutical industry. The updated models illustrate our commitment to providing the best predictive models in the industry. We are now in final development and testing of ADMET Predictor 8.0, which features a completely redesigned and modernized interface as well as a number of new capabilities to enhance the performance and user-friendliness of the program. We expect to release version 8.0 during the third fiscal quarter of FY2016. The optional ADMET Modeler Module in ADMET Predictor enables scientists to use their own experimental data to quickly create proprietary high-quality predictive models using the same powerful machine-learning methods we use to build our top-ranked property predictions. Pharmaceutical companies expend substantial time and money conducting a wide variety of experiments on new molecules each year, generating large databases of experimental data. Using this proprietary data to build predictive models can provide a second return on their investment; however, model building has traditionally been a difficult and tedious activity performed by specialists. The automation in ADMET Modeler makes it easy for a scientist to create very powerful models with minimal training. 20 We are currently investigating three applications of this machine-learning engine outside of our normal pharmaceutical markets, including: (1) building predictive models for missile aerodynamic force and moment coefficients as a function of missile geometry, Mach number, and angle of attack, (2) classifying/identifying missiles and other objects from radar tracking data, and (3) classifying patients as healthy or experiencing some disease state or genetic disorder evidenced by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. Other potential applications for this modeling engine have also been identified; however, our focus to date has been in these three areas. We believe our machine-learning software engine has a wide variety of potential applications and we intend to pursue funding to develop customized tools to further monetize our investment in this technology by expanding our markets beyond the life sciences and chemistry. MedChem Designer MedChem Designer was launched in 2011. It was initially a molecule-drawing program, or sketcher, but now has capabilities exceeding those of other molecule-drawing programs because of its integration with both MedChem Studio and ADMET Predictor. We provide MedChem Designer for free to our customers because we believe that in the long run it will help to increase demand for ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio, and because most other existing molecule-drawing programs are also provided for free. Our free version includes a small set of ADMET Predictors best-in-class property predictions, allowing the chemist to modify molecular structures and then see a few key properties very quickly. With a paid ADMET Predictor license, the chemist would see the entire ~150 predictions that are available. Over 15,000 copies of MedChem Designer have been downloaded by scientists around the world to date. When used with a license for ADMET Predictor, MedChem Designer becomes a de novo molecule design tool. With it, a researcher can draw one or more molecular structures, then click on the ADMET Predictor icon and have ~150 properties for each structure calculated in seconds, including our proprietary ADMET Risk index. Researchers can also click on an icon to generate the likely metabolites of a molecule and then predict all of the properties of those metabolites from ADMET Predictor, including each of their ADMET Risk scores. This is important because a metabolite of a molecule can be therapeutically beneficial (or harmful) even though the parent molecule is not. Our proprietary ADMET Risk score provides a single number that tells the chemist how many default threshold values for various predicted properties were crossed (or violated) by each structure. Thus, in a single number, the chemist can instantly compare the effects of different structural changes in many dimensions. The ideal score is zero; however, a low score greater than zero might be acceptable, depending on what property(s) caused the points to be assigned. If the number is too high (greater than 5-6), the molecule is not likely to be successful as a drug. The default rules can be modified and new rules can be added by the user to include any desired rule set based on any combination of calculated descriptors, predicted properties, and user inputs. As chemists attempt to modify structures to improve one property, they often cause others to become unacceptable. Without ADMET Risk, the chemist would have to individually examine many key properties for each new molecule (and its metabolites) to determine whether any of them became unacceptable as a result of changing the structure. MedChem Studio MedChem Studio is a powerful software tool that is used both for data mining and for de novo design of new molecules. In its data-mining role, MedChem Studio facilitates searching of large chemical libraries to find molecules that contain identified substructures, and it enables rapid generation of clusters (classes) of molecules that share common substructures from high-throughput screening (HTS) data. MedChem Studio version 4.0 was released during fiscal year 2014. We have now merged MedChem Studio with the refactoring of ADMET Predictor 8.0, so that either program can be entered through the same interface, and the communication between the two programs is enhanced through the seamless integration of both technologies. We believe this will enhance the attractiveness of both ADMET Predictor and MedChem Studio to medicinal and computational chemists. 21 While MedChem Designer can be used to refine a small number of molecules, MedChem Studio can be used to create and screen (with ADMET Predictor) very large numbers of molecules down to a few promising lead candidates. MedChem Studio has features that enable it to generate new molecular structures using a variety of de novo design methods. When MedChem Studio is used with ADMET Predictor and MedChem Designer (which we refer to as our ADMET Design Suite), we believe the programs provide an unmatched capability for chemists to search through large libraries of compounds that have undergone high-throughput screening experiments to find the most promising classes (groups of molecules with a large common part of their structures) and molecules that are active against a particular target. In addition, MedChem Studio can take an interesting (but not acceptable) molecule and, using a variety of design algorithms, quickly generate many thousands to millions of high quality analogs (similar new molecules). These molecules can then be screened using ADMET Predictor to find molecules that are both active against the target as well as acceptable in a variety of ADMET properties. We demonstrated the power of the ADMET Design Suite during two NCE (new chemical entity) projects wherein we designed lead molecules to inhibit the growth of the plasmodium falciparum malaria parasite in one study and lead molecules that were combined COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors. Every molecule we designed and had synthesized hit their targets. We are not aware of any other software company that has demonstrated the ability of their software in this way. KIWI TM Drug development programs rely increasingly on modeling and simulation analyses to support decision-making and submissions to regulatory agencies. To ensure high-quality analyses, organizations must not only apply high-quality science, but must also be able to support the science by being able to validate the results. KIWI is a cloud-based web application that was developed to efficiently organize, process, maintain, and communicate the volume of data and results generated by pharmacologists and scientists over the duration of a drug development program. The validated workflow and tools within KIWI promote traceability and reproducibility of results. The pharmaceutical industry has been rapidly adopting cloud technology as a solution to ever-expanding computer processing needs. Leveraging our 20-plus years of experience in providing an architecture supporting modeling and simulation efforts, we have developed KIWI as a secure, validated, enterprise-scale environment, enabling global teams to collaborate on model-based decision making. KIWI has proven to be a valuable platform for encouraging interdisciplinary discussions about the model development process and interpretation of results. We continue to receive positive feedback about the functionality implemented in KIWI and the value of the approach we have taken to harness cloud technology. We continue to improve functionality and collaboration within the KIWI platform, and we expect the licensing fee will be a source of recurring revenue for further development and growth. KIWI Version 1.3 was released in May 2015. This version of KIWI provides our user community with access to new features that accelerate completion of modeling projects by decreasing run times and facilitating the comparison and exporting of results across models. These features include dynamic comparisons of model parameter estimates and diagnostic plots, export of model run records for regulatory submissions, and accelerated infrastructure with the upgrade to the latest versions of NONMEM and Perl-speaks-NONMEM running in a 64-bit Linux environment. KIWI Version 1.5 was released in March 2016. This new version introduced major enhancements in the functionality of visualization tools offered by the platform. These enhancements include simplifying the creation of plots and comparing them across multiple models, thus accelerating the model refinement process. In addition, analysts can now conveniently copy visualization preferences across projects, improving consistency and facilitating collaboration and communication with clients and colleagues. Contract Research and Consulting Services Our scientists and engineers have world-class expertise in drug absorption via various dosing routes (oral, intravenous, ocular, nasal/pulmonary, and dermal), pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics. They have been speakers or presenters at over 150 scientific meetings worldwide in the past four years. We frequently conduct contracted studies for large customers (including the five largest pharmaceutical companies) who have particularly difficult problems and who recognize our expertise in solving them, as well as for smaller customers who prefer to have studies run by our scientists rather than to license our software and train someone to use it. The demand for our consulting services has been steadily increasing, and we have expanded our consulting teams to meet the increased workload. We currently are working with the FDA on three different Research Collaboration Agreements (RCAs): the two funded efforts for the ocular model and long-acting injectable microspheres and the unfunded IVIVC effort, all described above under GastroPlus. 22 Pharmacometric modeling: We have a reputation for high-quality analyses and regulatory reporting of data collected during preclinical experiments and clinical trials of new and existing pharmaceutical products, typically working on 30-40 drug projects per year. The model-based analysis of clinical trial data that we perform is different from the modeling analysis offered by GastroPlus; the former relies more on statistical and semi-mechanistic models, whereas the latter relies on very detailed mechanistic models. Statistical models rely on direct observation and mathematical equations that are used to fit data collected across multiple studies along with describing the variability within and between patients. Mechanistic models are based on the detailed understanding of the human body and the chemistry of the drug and involve mathematical and scientific representation of the phenomena involved in drug dissolution/precipitation, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination. Collectively, the models guide drug formulation design and dose selection. At meetings held in 2014 by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, such agencies emphasized an interest in bringing physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) into clinical pharmacology. Because of the synergies achieved through the integration of our Buffalo division (Cognigen) into Simulations Plus, our first full fiscal year of combined operations resulted in significantly increased revenues and earnings. Our clinical pharmacometricians in Buffalo, supported by our consulting team in California, are learning to use the PBPK modeling capabilities of GastroPlus and are performing such studies under new and expanded contracts with pharmaceutical customers. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Development of our software is focused on expanding product lines, designing enhancements to our core technologies, and integrating existing and new products into our principal software architecture and platform technologies. We intend to continue to offer regular updates to our products and to continue to look for opportunities to expand our existing suite of products and services. To date, we have developed products internally, sometimes also licensing or acquiring products, or portions of products, from third parties. These arrangements sometimes require that we pay royalties to third parties. We intend to continue to license or otherwise acquire technology or products from third parties when it makes business sense to do so. We currently have one license agreement, with BIOVIA, a San Diego division of Dassault Systemes in France, pursuant to which a small royalty is paid to BIOVIA from revenues on each license for the Metabolite module in ADMET Predictor. This license agreement continues in perpetuity and either party has the right to terminate it. In 1997 we entered into an exclusive software licensing agreement with TSRL, Inc. (aka Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories), pursuant to which TSRL licensed certain software technology and databases to us, and we paid royalties to TSRL. On May 15, 2014, we and TSRL entered into a termination and non-assertion agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate the 1997 exclusive software licensing agreement. As a result, the Company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that agreement, and we agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000 as follows: (a) $3,500,000 by May 20, 2014, which amount was comprised of $2,500,000 in cash and $1,000,000 worth of our common stock (which was 164,745 shares based upon the April 25, 2014 closing price per share of $6.07 per share), (b) $750,000 payable on or before April 25, 2015, (c) $750,000 payable on or before April 25, 2016, and (d) $1,000,000 payable on or before April 25, 2017. Our payment obligation described above is non-interest-bearing and will be amortized at a constant rate of $150,000 per quarter until it is completely amortized, after which no further expense will be incurred. For most quarters, we expect that this will result in a savings over the royalty payments that would have been paid to TSRL if paid consistent with past practices. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION We distribute our products and offer our services in North America, South America, Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, India, Singapore, and the Peoples Republic of China. We market our pharmaceutical software and consulting services through attendance and presentations at scientific meetings, exhibits at trade shows, seminars at pharmaceutical companies and government agencies, through our website, and using various communication channels to our database of prospects and customers. At various scientific meetings around the world each year there are numerous presentations and posters presented in which the reported research was performed using our software. Many of these presentations were from industry and FDA scientists; some were from our staff. 23 Our sales and marketing efforts are handled primarily internally with our scientific team and several senior management staff assisting our marketing and sales staff with trade shows, seminars, and customer training both online and on-site. We believe that this is more effective than a completely separate sales team for several reasons: (1) customers appreciate talking directly with software developers and consulting scientists who can answer a wide range of technical questions about methods and features in depth; (2) our scientists and engineers benefit from direct customer contact by gaining an appreciation for the environment and problems of the customer; and (3) we believe the relationships we build through scientist-to-scientist contact are stronger than relationships built through salesperson-to-scientist contacts. We also have one independent distributor in Japan and two independent representatives in China who also sell and market our products. We provide support to the GastroPlus User Group in Japan, which was organized by Japanese researchers in 2009. In early 2013, a group of scientists in Europe and North America organized another group following the example set in Japan. Over 750 members have joined this group to date. We support this group through coordination of online meetings each month and managing the web site for exchange of information among members. These user groups provide us valuable feedback with respect to desired new features and suggested interface changes. PRODUCTION Our pharmaceutical software products are designed and developed by our development teams in California and New York, with locations in Lancaster, Petaluma, San Jose, San Diego, and Buffalo. In addition, we have one team member working out of North Carolina and our Chief Executive Officer works primarily from Auburn, Alabama. The principal materials and components used in the manufacture of simulation software products include CD-ROMs and instruction manuals, which are also produced in-house and through outside contractors. In-house graphic art and engineering talent enables us to accomplish this production in a cost-efficient manner. COMPETITION In our pharmaceutical software and services business, we compete against a number of established companies that provide screening, testing and research services, and products that are not based on simulation software. There are also software companies whose products do not compete directly with, but are sometimes closely related to, ours. Our competitors in this field include some companies with financial, personnel, research, and marketing resources that are larger than ours. Our management believes there is currently no significant competitive threat to GastroPlus, DDDPlus, or MembranePlus; however, in spite of a high barrier to entry, one could be developed over time. Our upcoming PKPlus software product will compete with one major and a few minor software programs; however, the capabilities and design features of PKPlus, along with more affordable licensing, is expected to generate significant interest, and we believe sales will begin quickly after the product is released in the third quarter. MedChem Studio, MedChem Designer, and ADMET Predictor/ADMET Modeler operate in a more competitive environment. Several other companies presently offer simulation or modeling software, or simulation-software-based services, to the pharmaceutical industry. Major pharmaceutical companies conduct drug discovery and development efforts through their internal development staffs and through outsourcing. Smaller companies generally need to outsource a greater percentage of this research. Thus, we compete not only with other software suppliers, but also with the in-house development teams at some of the larger pharmaceutical companies. Although competitive products exist, both new licenses and license renewals for GastroPlus have continued to grow. We believe that we enjoy a dominant market share in this segment. We believe that the success of our two NCE projects in which we successfully designed, synthesized, and tested new lead molecules to treat malaria as well as COX-2/COX-1 will further promote the abilities of our ADMET Design Suite for rapid and cost-effective design of lead compounds. 24 We believe the key factors in our ability to successfully compete in this field are our ability to: (1) continue to invest in research and development, and develop and support industry-leading simulation and modeling software and related products and services to effectively predict activities and ADMET-related behaviors of new drug-like compounds, (2) design new molecules with acceptable activity and ADMET properties, (3) develop and maintain a proprietary database of results of physical experiments that serve as a basis for simulated studies and empirical models, (4) attract and retain a highly skilled scientific and engineering team, and (5) develop and maintain relationships with research and development departments of pharmaceutical companies, universities and government agencies. We actively seek acquisitions to expand the pharmaceutical software and services business. We plan to continue our efforts to find strategic targets and alliances that will enhance our position in the industry. STRATEGY Our business strategy is to do the things we need to do to promote growth both organically (by expanding our current products and services through in-house efforts) and by acquisition. We believe in the Built to Last approach - that the fundamental science and technologies that underlie our business units are the keys both to improving our existing products and to expanding the product line with new products that meet our various customers needs. We believe the continued growth of our pharmaceutical software and services business segment is the result of steadily increasing adoption of simulation and modeling software tools across the pharmaceutical industry, as well as the expertise we offer as consultants to assist companies involved in the research and development of new medicines. We have received a continuing series of study contracts with pharmaceutical companies ranging from several of the largest in the world to a number of medium-sized and smaller companies in the U.S. and Europe. On July 23, 2014, we signed a merger agreement with Cognigen Corporation of Buffalo, New York. The merger closed on September 2, 2014, and Cognigen became our wholly owned subsidiary. We believe the combination of Simulations Plus and Cognigen provides substantial future potential based on the complementary strengths of each of the companies. It is our intent to continue to search for acquisition opportunities that are compatible with our current businesses and that are accretive, i.e., adding to both revenues and earnings. In the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015 we distributed $0.20 per share in dividends to our shareholders. In November 2015 and February 2016 the board declared quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share. We anticipate future dividends to be $0.05 per share per quarter; however, there can be no assurances that such dividends will be distributed, or if so, whether the amounts will be more, less, or the same as expected. The Board of Directors must approve each quarterly dividend distribution and may decide to increase, decrease, or eliminate dividend distributions at any time. 25 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended February 29, 2016 and February 28, 2015. The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Three Months Ended 02/29/16 02/28/15 Net sales $ 5,164 100.0% $ 4,574 100.0% Cost of sales 1,264 24.5 * 1,131 24.7 Gross profit 3,900 75.5 3,443 75.3 Selling, general and administrative 1,723 33.4 * 1,607 35.1 Research and development 461 8.9 361 7.9 Total operating expenses 2,184 42.3 1,968 43.0 Income from operations 1,716 33.2 1,475 32.3 Other income (24 ) (0.4 ) (30 ) (0.7 ) Income from operations before taxes 1,692 32.8 1,445 31.6 (Provision for) income taxes (547 ) (10.6 ) (475 ) (10.4 ) Net income $ 1,145 22.2% $ 970 21.2% * Numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by 12.9% or $590,000 to $5.16 million in the second fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2016 (2QFY16) from $4.57 million in the second fiscal quarter of Fiscal Year 2015 (2QFY15). $245,000 of this increase was from revenues generated by our Buffalo Division, representing a 19.2% increase over 2QFY15. Net revenues of the Lancaster Division increased $344,000 or 10.4%, to $3.65 million in 2QFY16 from $3.30 million in 2QFY15. Consolidated software and software related sales increased $454,000 or 14.8%, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $136,000 or 9.1% over 2QFY15. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $133,000 in 2QFY16 to $1.26 million from $1.13 million in 2QFY15. Most of the increase is attributed to the first annual bonuses paid to employees in our Buffalo Division; $139,000 was paid to them during this period. There were no other significant changes to consolidated expenses in 2QFY16 compared to 2QFY15. Cost of Revenues as a percentage of revenue remained substantially constant, decreasing by only 0.2% in 2QFY16 to 24.5% as compared to 2QFY15. Gross Profit Consolidated gross profit increased $457,000 or 13.3%, to $3.90 million in 2QFY16 from $3.44 million in 2QFY15. $105,000 of this increase in gross margin is from our Buffalo Division, which showed a 55.5% gross margin on $1.52 million in revenues. Our Lancaster Division accounted for $352,000 of the increase, which came mainly from increased software license sales. The Lancaster Division showed an 83.8% gross margin for the quarter. 26 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $116,000, or 7.2%, to $1.72 million in 2QFY16, from $1.61 million in 2QFY15. The major increases in SG&A expenses this year compared to last year were: Commissions to our Japanese and Chinese dealers as they increased their sales. Commissions were up by $31,000. Marketing labor increased by $24,000 - more time was spent by scientific personnel on marketing-related activities Advertising increased by $24,000 we increased our web presence and incurred other advertising-related costs Professional fees were up $24,000 this was the result of the additional costs of a consolidated entity and other tax and accounting compliance-related issues Major Decreases - There were no significant decreases in this quarter compared to last year. Research and Development We incurred approximately $739,000 of research and development costs during 2QFY16. Of this amount, $278,000 was capitalized software development costs and $461,000 was expensed. We incurred approximately $794,000 of research and development costs during 2QFY15. Of this amount, $433,000 was capitalized software development costs and $361,000 was expensed. Other income (expense) No significant changes Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $547,000 for 2QFY16 compared to $475,000 for 2QFY15. Our effective tax rate remained fairly constant this period decreasing 0.4% to 32.3% in 2QFY16 from 32.7% in 2QFY15. Net Income Net income increased by $175,000, or 18.0%, in 2QFY16 to $1,145,000 from $970,000 in 2QFY15. We attribute the majority of this increase to the added software revenues from our Lancaster operations. Comparison of Six Months Ended February 29, 2016 and February 28, 2015 The following table sets forth our condensed statements of operations (in thousands) and the percentages that such items bear to net sales (because of rounding, numbers may not foot): Six Months Ended 02/29/16 02/28/15 Net sales $ 10,002 100.0% $ 8,660 100.0% Cost of revenues 2,347 23.5 * 2,176 25.1 Gross profit 7,655 76.5 6,484 74.9 Selling, general and administrative 3,399 34.0 * 3,626 41.9 Research and development 813 8.1 633 7.3 Total operating expenses 4,212 42.1 4,259 49.2 Income from operations 3,443 34.4 2,225 25.7 Other income (34 ) (0.3 ) (34 ) (0.4 ) Income from operations before taxes 3,409 34.1 2,191 25.3 (Provision for) income taxes (1,157 ) (11.6 ) (692 ) (8.0 ) Net income $ 2,252 22.5% $ 1,499 17.3% * Numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation 27 Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues increased by 15.5% or $1.34 million to $10.00 million in the first six months of Fiscal Year 2016 (6moFY16) from $8.66 million in the first six months of Fiscal Year 2015 (6moFY15). $538,000 of this increase was from revenues generated by our Buffalo Division, representing a 22.4% increase over 6moFY15. Net revenues of the Lancaster Division increased $804,000, or 12.9%, to $7.06 million for 6moFY16 from $6.25 million in 6moFY15. Consolidated software and software-related sales increased $798,000, or 13.5%, in 6moFY16, while consolidated consulting and analytical study revenues increased $545,000, or 19.8%, over 6moFY15. Cost of Revenues Consolidated cost of revenues increased by $172,000 in 6moFY16 to $2.35 million from $2.18 million in 6moFY15. The increase came mainly from the first annual bonuses paid to employees in our Buffalo Division; $139,000 was paid during the period. There were no other significant changes to consolidated expenses in 6moFY16 compared to 6moFY15. Consolidated cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue decreased from 25.1% in 6moFY15 to 23.5% in 6moFY16. The change mainly comes from increased revenues, while costs remained fairly constant except as noted above. Gross Profit Consolidated gross profit increased $1.17 million or 18%, to $7.66 million in 6moFY16 from $6.48 million in 6moFY15. $1.34 million of this increase in gross margin is from our Buffalo Division, which showed a 59.2% gross margin on $2.94 million in revenues for 6moFY16. Our Lancaster Division accounted for $764,000 of the increase, which came mainly from increased software license sales. The Lancaster Division showed an 83.8% gross margin for the six-month period. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased $228,000, or 6.3%, to $3.40 million in 6moFY16 from $3.63 million in 6moFY15. The major increases in SG&A expense were: Commissions to our Japanese and Chinese dealers as they increased their sales. Commissions were up by $27,000. Advertising increase by $42,000 - we increased our web presence and incurred other advertising-related costs Marketing labor increased by $38,000 - more time was spent by scientific personnel on marketing-related activities Software License expenses increased $28,000 due to new outside software licensing based on increased software volume tiers The major decreases in SG&A expense were: Consulting Fees decreased by $397,000 - in 1QFY15, we paid approximately $400,000 in one-time fees and expenses to our financial advisor/business broker related to the Cognigen acquisition. There were no such expenses in the current reporting period. Research and Development We incurred approximately $1.36 million of research and development costs during 6moFY16. Of this amount, $545,000 was capitalized software development costs and $813,000 was expensed We incurred approximately $1.25 million of research and development costs during 6moFY15. Of this amount, $631,000 was capitalized software development costs and $633,000 was expensed. Other income (expense) No significant changes 28 Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $1,157,000 for 6moFY16 compared to $692,000 for 6moFY15. Our effective tax rate increased to 34.0% in 6moFY16 from 31.3% in 6moFY15, due to increased income and the attendant lower percentage of permanent tax deductions in 6moFY15 for R&D and other credits. Net Income Net income increased by $752,000, or 50.2%%, to $2.25 million in 6moFY16 from $1.50 million in 6moFY15. The increase comes from two main sources: increased revenues of $1.34 million; and reduced SG&A expense in 2016, since in 2015 we incurred approximately $400,000 of one-time consulting costs associated with the Cognigen acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of capital have been cash flows from our operations. We have achieved continuous positive operating cash flow over the last eight fiscal years. We believe that our existing capital and anticipated funds from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Thereafter, if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may open a revolving line of credit with a bank, or we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain expanded credit facilities. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If cash flows from operations became insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing was obtained, then management would restructure the Company in a way to preserve its pharmaceutical business while maintaining expenses within operating cash flows.