Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. The information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These forward-looking statements reflect our managements beliefs and views with respect to future events and are based on estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We may, in some cases, use words such as anticipate, believe, could, continue, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, project, should, will, would, or the negative of those terms, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: our plans to focus on oscillators, clock IC, resonators and timing sync solutions and to aggressively expand our presence in these markets; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, employees, revenue and other operating results, liquidity, and cash flows, and its impact on the businesses of our suppliers and customers, and our anticipated responses thereto; our ability to address market and customer demands and to timely develop new or enhanced solutions to meet those demands; anticipated trends, challenges and growth in our business and the markets in which we operate, including pricing expectations; our expectations regarding our revenue, gross margin, and expenses; expected impact of new legislation and IRS guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic; our belief as to the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and funds available for borrowing under our credit facilities to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months and our future capital requirements over the longer term, including the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic thereon; our expectations regarding dependence on our largest customer; our customer relationships and our ability to retain and expand our customer relationships and to achieve design wins; the success, cost, and timing of new products; the size and growth potential of the markets for our solutions, and our ability to serve and expand our presence in those markets; our plans to expand sales and marketing efforts through increased collaboration with our distributors, resellers, and contracted sales representatives, and our plans to introduce a self-service web portal as well as digital marketing campaigns for branding and lead generation; our goal to become the leading timing solution provider for advanced and challenging applications; our positioning of being designed into current systems as well as future products; our belief that our advanced packaging designs can fit in the smallest footprints in the industry; our expectations regarding competition in our existing and new markets; regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; the performance of, and our relationships with, our third-party suppliers and manufacturers; our and our customers ability to respond successfully to technological or industry developments; our ability to attract and retain key management personnel; intellectual property and related litigation; the adequacy and availability of our leased facilities; the accuracy of our estimates regarding capital requirements, expectations regarding renewal of loans, and needs for additional financing; 14 our relationship with, and ownership percentage of, MegaChips Corporation ( MegaChips); our expectations regarding the period during which we qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act; and our expectations regarding our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology. In addition, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or referenced in these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this report by these cautionary statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of silicon timing solutions. Our timing solutions are the heartbeat of our customers electronic systems, solving complex timing problems and enabling industry-leading products. We provide solutions that are differentiated by high performance and reliability, programmability, small size, and low power consumption. Our products have been designed into over 200 applications across our target markets, including enterprise and telecommunications infrastructure, automotive, industrial, IoT and mobile, and aerospace and defense. We commenced commercial shipments of our first oscillator products in 2006. Substantially all of our revenue to date has been derived from sales of oscillator systems across our target end markets. We recently introduced products into the clock IC market, which we began sampling in 2019, and to focus on clock IC and timing sync solutions in the future. We seek to aggressively expand our presence in these two markets. We sell our products primarily through distributors and resellers, who in turn sell to our end customers. Based on sell-through information provided by these distributors, we believe the majority of our end customers are based in the U.S. We operate a fabless business model, allowing us to focus on the design, sales, and marketing of our products, quickly scale production, and significantly reduce our capital expenditures. We leverage our global network of distributors and resellers to address the broad set of end markets we serve. For our largest accounts, dedicated sales personnel work with the end customer to ensure that our solutions fully address the end customers timing needs. Our smaller customers work directly with our distributors to select the optimum timing solution for their needs. We were acquired by MegaChips in 2014 and were a wholly-owned subsidiary of MegaChips, a fabless semiconductor company based in Japan and traded on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, until November 25, 2019. On November 25, 2019, we completed the initial public offering of shares of our common stock. On June 16, 2020, we completed a follow-on public offering, in which we issued and sold 1,525,000 shares of our common stock and MegaChips sold 2,500,000 of our common stock held by them. MegaChips continues to be our largest stockholder and held approximately 44.3% of our common stock as of September 30, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 on our Business The future impact of the global emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business is currently unknown. In an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees, we took proactive actions and adopted social distancing policies at our locations around the world, including work from home (WFH), reducing the number of people in our sites at any one time, and suspending employee travel. In an effort to contain the COVID-19 pandemic or slow its spread, governments around the world have also enacted various measures, including orders to close all businesses not deemed essential, isolate residents to their homes or places of residence, and practice social distancing when engaging in essential activities. In addition, the United States and other foreign countries in which we operate have imposed measures such as quarantines and shelter-in-place orders that are restricting business operations and travel and requiring individuals to WFH, which has impacted all aspects of our business, as well as those of the third-parties we rely upon for our manufacturing, assembly, testing, shipping and other operations. 15 W e anticipate the global health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively impact business activity across the globe and will continue to impact our business, employees and operations. We believe that the COVID-19 pandemic has caused , and could continue to cause, delay and disruption in the manufacture, shipment, and sales of, and overall demand for, our products. In addition, we believe the production capabilities of our suppliers has been, and may continue to be, impacted as a resul t of quarantines, closures of production facilities, lack of supplies, or delays caused by restrictions on travel or WFH orders. For example, on March 16, 2020, the government of Malaysia announced measures to restrict movement in that country to suppress the number of COVID-19 cases. The restrictions have been extended currently until December 31, 2020. These restrictions could limit our suppliers ability to operate their manufacturing facilities in that country. Any delay or disruption in the manufacture , shipment and sales of, or overall demand for, our products in turn may negatively and materially impact our operating and financial results, including revenue, gross margins, operating margins, cash flows and other operating results. Further, the resumpt ion of normal business operations after such disruptions may be delayed and a resurgence of COVID-19 could result in continued disruption to us, our suppliers, and/or our customers. To date, the Company has experienced minimal impact from any supplier disr uption. The duration and full magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on credit and financial markets is also unknown, which creates uncertainty as to the financial condition of our distributors or customers. In addition, the deterioration in credit ma rkets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. We may also experience losses on our holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other parties. We currently have employees, third-party contractors, distributors, and customers in numerous countries throughout the world that have each been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has restricted and is expected to continue to restrict travel and use of our facilities and the facilities of our suppliers, customers, or other vendors in our supply chain, which could impact our business, interactions and relationships with our customers, third-party suppliers and contractors, and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty what other impacts the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, employees, service providers, customers and results of operations. There remains a high degree of uncertainty in the global business environment given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic which creates challenges with visibility beyond the near term. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions altering our business operations that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and stakeholders, or as required by federal, state, or local authorities. It is not clear what the potential effects any such alterations or modifications may have on our business, including the effects on our customers, employees, operations, and prospects, or on our financial results for the remainder of fiscal 2020 or beyond. For additional discussion, please see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report. Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from sales of silicon timing products to distributors and resellers who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to end customers who integrate our products into their applications. Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders which may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled, with little or no notice. We recognize product revenue upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Revenue $ 32,667 $ 25,325 $ 7,342 29 % $ 75,882 $ 55,985 $ 19,897 36 % Revenue increased by $7.3 million, or 29%, for three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in revenue was primarily related to increased revenue of $5.9 million from our largest customer from higher sales volume. The remaining increase was from increased ASP from our customers largely in Asia. The overall average selling price of our products increase by $0.02 year over year driven mostly by mix of products. Revenue increased by $19.9 million, or 36%, for nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. The revenue from our customers largely in Asia increased $12.2 million primarily from higher sales volume of 13% and an increase in ASP. The remaining increase was primarily related to increased revenue of $7.7 million from our largest customer from higher sales volume and higher ASP driven by mix of products sold. The overall average selling price of our products increased by $0.03 year over year driven mostly by mix of products. 16 For three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, sales attributable to our largest end customer accounted for 45% and 36% of our revenue, respectively. Our end customers predominantly purchase our products from distributors. For the three and ni ne months ended September 30, 2020, our top three distributors by revenue together accounted for approximately 61% and 57% of our revenue, respectively. Revenue attributable to our largest ten end customers accounted for 63% and 55% respectively for the th ree and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of wafers acquired from third-party foundries, assembly, packaging, and test cost of our products paid to third-party contract manufacturers, and personnel and other costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation of production equipment, inventory write-downs, amortization of internally developed software, shipping and handling costs, and allocation of overhead and facility costs. We also include credits for rebates received from foundries to cost of revenue. Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Cost of Revenue $ 15,765 $ 13,178 $ 2,587 20 % $ 39,021 $ 29,875 $ 9,146 31 % Gross Profit 16,902 12,147 4,755 39 % 36,861 26,110 10,751 41 % Gross Margin 52 % 48 % 49 % 47 % Gross profit increased by $4.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. The gross profit for the period ended September 30, 2019 included a benefit of $0.7 million from the sale of previously reserved inventory. Gross profit excluding this benefit of $0.7 million increased $5.5 million year over year mainly from an increase in ASP as other manufacturing costs remained relatively flat. Gross profit increased by $10.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year. The gross profit for the period ended September 30, 2019 included a benefit of $2.4 million from the sale of previously reserved inventory. Gross profit excluding this benefit of $2.4 million increased a net $13.2 million year over year mainly from higher sales volume and an increase in ASP which were offset by higher other manufacturing and overhead costs of $1.5 million. Gross margin was higher by 4% in the three months ended September 30, 2020 when compared to the same period in the prior year. The gross margin for the period ended September 30, 2019 included a benefit of 2% or $0.7 million from sale of previously reserved inventory. The gross margin excluding the benefit to the gross margin from the sale of the previosly reserved inventoy increased by 6% year over year from higher sales volume and a slight increase in ASP as other manufacturing costs remained relatively flat. Gross margin was higher by 2% in the nine months ended September 30, 2020 when compared to the same period in the prior year. The gross margin for the period ended September 30, 2019 included a benefit of 3% or $2.4 million from sale of previously reserved inventory. The gross margin excluding the benefit to the gross margin from the sale of the previosly reserved inventoy increased by 5% year over year from higher sales volume and an increase in ASP as other manufacturing costs remained relatively flat. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, allocated costs of facilities, information technology and depreciation. We expect our operating expenses to fluctuate in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue over time. Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused on the design and development of next-generation silicon timing systems solutions. Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, which include stock-based compensation, pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and intellectual property expenses, design tools and prototype-related expenses, facility costs, supplies, professional and consulting fees, and allocated overhead costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. However, we expect our research and development expense to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. 17 Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expense consists of personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, professional and consulting fees, accounting and audit fees, legal costs, field application engineering support, travel costs, advertising expenses and allocated overhead costs. We expect sales, general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our personnel and grow our operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Operating Expenses: Research and development $ 8,484 $ 5,778 $ 2,706 47 % $ 22,906 $ 17,846 $ 5,060 28 % Selling, general and administrative 8,978 4,869 4,109 84 % 24,642 14,167 10,475 74 % Total operating expenses $ 17,462 $ 10,647 $ 6,815 64 % $ 47,548 $ 32,013 $ 15,535 49 % Research and development expense increased by $2.7 million, or 47%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $1.4 million. This in turn was due to the timing of grants of employee equity awards upon the completion of our initial public offering in November 2019 and new performance-based award grants in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The remaining increase was primarily due to increased project spend and an impairment charge of $0.8 million related to the cost of a software that was in process of development for internal use. The related product for which the software was developed to support in production was abandoned as we changed our roadmap and improved the final desired technical specifications required of the new product. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $4.1 million, or 84%, for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $3.1 million, $0.9 million of higher personnel costs largely related to increased headcount and expenses for services related to the requirements of being a public company. Research and development expense increased by $5.1 million, or 28%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $3.4 million. This in turn was due to the timing of grants of employee equity awards upon the completion of our initial public offering in November 2019 and new performance-based award grants in the nine months ended September 30, 2020. The remaining increase was primarily due to increased headcount and impairment charges of $1.0 million related to the cost of software that were in the process of development for internal use. The related products for which the software was developed to support in production were abandoned as we changed our roadmap and improved the final desired technical specifications required of the new products. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $10.5 million, or 74%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $7.0 million, higher personnel costs of $1.8 million largely related to increased headcount and remaining increase due to additional expenses for services related to the requirements of being a public company. Other Expense Other income (expense) consists primarily of interest expense on our outstanding debt, foreign exchange gains and losses, and asset dispositions. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements under Item 8 for more information about our debt. Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Interest Expense $ 110 $ 426 $ (316 ) (74 %) $ 726 $ 1,320 $ (594 ) (45 %) Other expense, net (3 ) (5 ) 2 (40 %) (51 ) 16 (67 ) (419 %) Total other expense $ 107 $ 421 $ (314 ) (75 %) $ 675 $ 1,336 $ (661 ) (49 %) 18 Other expense decreased $0.3 million and $0.7 million for three and nine months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily as a result of lower i nterest rates and a shorter term on our outstanding revolving short-term debt as we paid in full all of our debt on July 24, 2020. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Income tax expense consists primarily of state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of our deferred tax asset is uncertain, including NOL, carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law in the U.S. to provide certain relief as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, governments around the world have enacted or implemented various forms of tax relief measures in response to the economic conditions in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. As of September 30, 2020, the Company has determined that neither the CARES Act nor changes to income tax laws or regulations in other jurisdictions had a significant impact on the Companys effective tax rate. Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2020 2019 $ % 2020 2019 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Income tax benefit (expense) $ $ $ n/a $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ 0% Liquidity and Capital Resources Before our initial public offering in November 2019, we financed our operations primarily through cash generated from product sales and proceeds from our credit facilities, including proceeds from our loan agreement with MegaChips. As of September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $69.2 million and $63.4 million, respectively. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations to support growth. In June 2020, we completed a follow-on public offering of our shares, resulting in net proceeds to us of $45.8 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and deferred offering costs. On July 24, 2020, the Company paid down all outstanding loans with MUFG of $35.0 million and in the three months ended September closed its credit facilities with MCC and SMBC. The Company continues to have $50.0 million funds available under its credit facility with MUFG. The credit line with MUFG is no longer guaranteed by MCC. As of the reporting date, it is challenging to assess the future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company. We believe that one impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company may be its impact on our employees and operations. We are not currently aware of any other material short-term adverse influences on the Company. However, at this point in time, we cannot predict what other impacts the COVID-19 pandemic may have on the Company. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and funds available under the credit facility will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot provide any assurance that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 9,842 $ 4,882 Net cash used in investing activities (5,349 ) (2,210 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,297 (1,329 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 5,790 $ 1,343 Operating Activities In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by operating activities of $9.8 million was primarily due to a net loss of $11.4 million offset by non-cash expenses of $16.9 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $4.3 million. Non-cash expenses were mainly related to depreciation and amortization, impairment of internal-use software, stock-based compensation expense, and non-cash operating lease costs. Operating assets and liabilities increased primarily due to lower prepaid expenses and other current assets related to advance payments to suppliers for inventory and higher accounts payable and accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments partially offset by an increase in inventories as we managed our inventory levels and lower lease liabilities due to timing of payments. 19 In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, net cash provided by operating activities of $4.9 million was primarily due to a net loss of $7.2 million offset by non-cash expenses of $7.1 million a nd a change in operating assets and liabilities of $5.0 million. The increase in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to lower accounts receivable and related party receivables due to timing of shipment and collections, a decrease in inventor ies due to lower purchases primarily to manage our inventory levels, offset by higher prepaid expenses and other current assets related to advance payment to suppliers for inventory, lower accounts payable due to timing of payments, lower accrued expenses and other liabilities and lower lease liabilities. Non-cash items included depreciation and amortization, and non-cash operating lease costs. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures for property and equipment purchases. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment have primarily been for general business purposes, including machinery and equipment, leasehold improvements, acquired software, internally developed software used in production and support of our products, computer equipment used internally, and production masks to manufacture our products. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $5.3 million and consisted primarily of the purchase of production masks, internally developed software, and other property and equipment for general business purposes to support the growth of the Company. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, cash used in investing activities was approximately $2.2 million and consisted primarily of the purchase of production masks, internally developed software, and other property and equipment for general business purposes. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities includes proceeds from borrowings under our credit facilities and proceeds from issuance of shares. In the nine months ended September 30, 2020, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.3 million, consisting of proceeds from issuance of shares of $45.8 million net of underwriting commissions and discounts of $2.7 million and deferred offering costs of $0.3 million and borrowings of $35.0 million offset by repayments of $76.0 million under our short-term revolving line of credit and $3.5 million payment of tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement at the time of vesting. In the nine months ended September 30, 2019 the Company paid $1.3 million in deferred offering costs. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Set forth below is information concerning our contractual commitments and obligations as of September 30, 2020: Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Operating leases $ 9,652 $ 275 $ 3,162 $ 3,021 $ 3,194 Purchase obligations 2,713 2,713 Total $ 12,365 $ 2,988 $ 3,162 $ 3,021 $ 3,194 Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty are not included in the table above. The aggregate amount of our obligations under these contracts is approximately $19.2 million as of September 30, 2020. We signed an operating lease agreement for our corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California that commenced on October 20, 2016 and will expire on December 31, 2026. The agreement provides for an option to renew for an additional five years and for rent payments through the term of the lease payment. We also lease office space in Michigan, Malaysia, Japan, the Netherlands, and Ukraine, and all under operating leases with various expiration dates through December 2022. We purchase components and wafers from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable and unconditional purchase commitments once the production has started. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed. 20 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and accompanying disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has defined a companys critical accounting policies as policies that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be as follows: (1) revenue recognition; (2) inventory; (3) stock-based compensation; (4) accounting for income taxes and (5) segment reporting. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information not presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates if the assumptions, judgments, and conditions upon which they are based turn out to be inaccurate. Management believes that there have been no significant changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC on March 3, 2020.