Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. The information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. We may, in some cases, use words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, project, should, will, would, or the negative of those terms, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements about: our plans to focus on oscillators, clock ICs, resonators and timing synchronization solutions and to aggressively expand our presence in these markets; our expectations regarding our ability to address market and customer demands and to timely develop new or enhanced solutions to meet those demands; anticipated trends, challenges and growth in our business and the markets in which we operate, including pricing expectations; our expectations regarding our revenue, average selling prices, gross margin, and expenses; our expectations regarding the effects of macroeconomic events in 2024; our expectations regarding dependence on a limited number of customers and end customers; our customer relationships and our ability to retain and expand our customer relationships and to achieve design wins; our expectations regarding the success, cost, and timing of new products; the size and growth potential of the markets for our solutions, and our ability to serve and expand our presence in those markets; our plans to expand sales and marketing efforts through increased collaboration with our distributors and contracted sales representatives, and our plans to grow direct online sales through our self-service online store; our expectations to identify new customers and deliver differentiated Precision Timing solutions to them through digital marketing strategies; our goal to become the leading provider of Precision Timing solutions for advanced and challenging applications; our positioning of being designed into current systems as well as future products; our belief that our advanced packaging designs can enable the smallest footprints in the industry; our expectations regarding competition in our existing and future markets; our expectations of the success of our acquisitions and how we integrate and generate revenue; the impact a pandemic, epidemic, or other outbreak of disease may in the future have on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the businesses of our suppliers and customers; our expectations regarding regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; our expectations regarding the performance of, and our relationships with, our third-party suppliers and manufacturers; 18 Table of Contents our expectations regarding our and our customers ability to respond successfully to technological or industry developments; our expectations regarding our ability to attract and retain key personnel; our expectations regarding intellectual property and related litigation; our belief as to the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments funds to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months and our future capital requirements over the longer term; the adequacy and availability of our leased facilities; the accuracy of our estimates regarding capital requirements and needs for additional financing. These forward-looking statements reflect our managements beliefs and views with respect to future events and are based on estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We discuss many of these risks in greater detail in Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this report by these cautionary statements You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview The ability to accurately measure and reference time has been essential to humankinds greatest inventions and technological advances. Timing technology has continued to evolve over centuries, forming a critical aspect of broader technological evolution. Timing is the heartbeat of digital electronic systems, ensuring that the system runs smoothly and reliably by providing and distributing clock signals to various critical components such as central processing units, communication and interface ICs, and radio frequency components. As electronics evolve to deliver higher performance levels, even in increasingly challenging environments, while also being more complex and size-constrained, we believe they will require more sophisticated semiconductor-based timing solutions that cannot be developed in legacy quartz crystal-based technologies.Precision timing ("Precision Timing"), fills this need with the performance, power, size, and cost that is required by these new applications. We are a leading provider of Precision Timing solutions to the global electronics industry. Our Precision Timing solutions are the heartbeat of our customers electronic systems, providing the timing functionality that is needed for electronics to operate reliably and correctly. We provide Precision Timing solutions that are differentiated by high performance, high resilience, and high reliability, along with programmability, small size, and low power consumption. Our products have been designed into over 300 applications across our target markets, including communications, datacenter and enterprise, automotive, industrial, aerospace, mobile, Internet of Things (IoT), and consumer. Our current solutions include various types of oscillators, as well as clock integrated circuits (ICs) and resonators. Our all-silicon solutions are based on three fundamental areas of expertise: micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), analog mixed-signal design capabilities, and advanced system-level integration expertise. These areas of expertise enable us to design silicon MEMS resonators, analog circuits, as well as systems and packaging, and put these all together to deliver a system-level solution that solves customers complex timing problems. In this aspect, we believe we are different 19 Table of Contents than quartz-based providers, who typically have expertise in designing and manufacturing resonator components, but usually outsource the analog and packaging. We also have a deep understanding of mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of materials, which is a key requirement for developing our proprietary MEMS processes. To maximize MEMS first-silicon success, we have also developed our own MEMS simulation tools. We are also different in that our MEMS resonators are made using semiconductor technology which has significant benefits in features, performance, manufacturing, and cost, while the quartz suppliers use quartz crystal material. Compared to traditional clock IC suppliers, we are different in that we design the resonator in-house and can integrate it into the clock IC package. Our analog/mixed-signal die are developed using industry-standard processes and deliver high levels of performance using programmable phase-locked loops ("PLLs"), temperature sensors, regulators, data converters, drivers and other building blocks. Unlike most clock IC vendors, we do not rely on quartz vendors to provide the quartz resonator clock reference that is required for their clock ICs to function. Our expertise creates supply chain advantages for us and most importantly, enables us to design and build complete timing systems that result in performance advantages, providing a complete solution to the customer. Our Precision Timing solutions are designed to be resilient to harsh environmental stressors. For the communications, datacenter and enterprise market, our products provide high performance and resilience in dense, less-controlled environments that experience extreme conditions. The resilience of our products becomes an increasing advantage as equipment is placed in dense, harsh environments and moves closer to the customer with the rollout of 5G, the rapid expansion in cloudification, and deployment of hyperscale datacenters. For the automotive market, our solutions can be utilized in automotive electronics, including advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) for self-driving cars, which require increased timing accuracy. For the industrial market, our products offer programmability and high reliability for the diverse operating conditions of industrial equipment, including high temperatures, mechanical shock, and vibration. For the aerospace market, our solutions provide lower acceleration sensitivity for end products that operate in rugged conditions. For the mobile, IoT and consumer market, our timing solutions have the advantage of offering high performance at optimal power consumption and size, as our customers fit more functionality into smaller devices. We believe that the total timing market is approximately $10 billion in size.Since our founding, we have focused on transforming this market with compelling solutions that solve difficult timing problems. Historically, our revenue has been substantially delivered from sales of oscillator systems across our target end markets. Since our initial public offering ("IPO") in November 2019, weve grown from 60 to 150 unique products and the price of our highest-value oscillator has grown manyfold. In addition to oscillators, we have expanded our product portfolio to include clock IC and timing synchronization solutions. In December 2023, we closed the acquisition of certain assets and the exclusive license to certain intellectual property from Aura Semiconductor Pvt. Ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities (together, "Aura") relating to Aura's timing business and clock products, subject to certain covenants and restrictions. With this acquisition, we bring our expertise to the category of clocks, adding 20 best-in-class clocks at the close of the acquisition, and approximately an additional 20 products, starting at the second half of 2024 and through 2025. With the addition of all four categories of clock products including network synchronizers, jitter cleaners, clock generators, and buffers, we now offer a comprehensive portfolio of timing solutions. By pairing the new SiTime clocking products with our MEMS oscillators and/or our resonators, we expect to be able to offer a more complete clock tree that is simpler to design with higher performance, and more resilient to environmental stressors with better reliability.SiTime is now a key provider of all differentiated products in timing oscillators, clocks, and resonators combined with depth in engineering expertise in Precision Timing solutions. We sell our products primarily through distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. We leverage our global network of distributors to address the broad set of end markets we serve. For our largest accounts, dedicated sales personnel work with the end customer to ensure that our solutions fully address the end customers timing needs. Our smaller customers can select the optimum timing solution for their needs by working directly with our sales personnel or distributors or by shopping on our online store, SiTimeDirect. We operate a fabless business model, where we outsource manufacturing to semiconductor industry suppliers, which allows us to focus on, and excel in, the design, marketing, and sales of our products. This model also allows us to operate with lower capital expenditure investment than other semiconductor companies that own fabs. A fabless infrastructure gives us production flexibility and the ability to scale capacity up and down quickly to meet demand. Our programmable architecture also plays a key role in ensuring optimal production flexibility, as it allows us to offer shorter lead times and the ability to meet custom requirements more easily. Since our IPO in November 2019, while our revenue has grown, gross margins have improved, and new opportunities for growth for our business have emerged, adverse macroeconomic events including geopolitical tensions and conflicts have substantially increased. In 2020 and 2021, there were a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the supply of analog circuits manufactured by certain foundries, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC"), and affecting outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers. We believe that the effects of the industry-wide 20 Table of Contents supply constraints on other timing device suppliers contributed in part to our revenue and gross margin growth in 2021 and the first half of 2022. In 2022 and 2023 macroeconomic events such as rising inflation, fear of recession, equity market volatility, geopolitical tensions, war, decreased consumer spending, lower demand for electronic products following a period of strong demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, and the COVID-19 pandemic measures implemented in China, harmed sales of our products and results of operations. We believe that some of our customers built up inventory of our products in 2022 to overcome the industry-wide supply constraints that occurred in the previous periods and that the macroeconomic events in the second half of 2022 and through 2023 led to reduced demand for our customers' products, which led to an inventory buildup at some of our customers and their affiliates, partners and contract manufacturers, which has adversely affected sales of our products. We believe that while this inventory buildup has reduced through the second half of 2023 and in 2024, any further increase could negatively impact the sales of our products and could result in decreases in our sales and margins, and could materially harm our results of operations. The future effects of macroeconomic events on our business and results of operations, including inventory levels at our customer and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers as well as demand for our products, are uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion please see Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Global macroeconomic conditions have harmed and may continue to harm our business and Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. We have employees in Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Taiwan, Ukraine, India, and the U.S. Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from sales of Precision Timing solutions to distributors who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders which may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled, with little or no notice. We recognize product revenue upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Revenue $ 33,022 $ 38,343 $ (5,321) (14 %) Revenue decreased by $5.3 million, or 14%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in average selling prices ("ASPs") of our products primarily due to change in mix of the products we shipped, partially offset by an increase in sales volume. Lower sales volume in the prior year was driven by excess inventory buildup at many of our customers, including our largest end customer, distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers, and lower demand for our products due to macroeconomic conditions. Sales attributable to our largest end customer through multiple distributors accounted for 19% and 3% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our end customers predominantly purchase our products from distributors. Our top three customers by revenue, which are distributors, together accounted for approximately 55% and 45% of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Revenue attributable to our largest ten end customers accounted for 52% and 43% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of wafers acquired from third-party foundries, assembly, packaging, and test cost of our products paid to third-party contract manufacturers, amortization of acquired intangibles and personnel and other costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation of production equipment, inventory write- 21 Table of Contents downs, amortization of internally developed software, shipping and handling costs, and allocation of overhead and facility costs. We also include credits for rebates received from foundries to cost of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Cost of Revenue $ 15,361 $ 15,302 $ 59 0.4 % Gross Profit $ 17,661 $ 23,041 $ (5,380) (23 %) Gross Margin 53 % 60 % Gross profit decreased by $5.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross profit decreased $4.5 million mainly from lower revenue and $1.2 million due to higher stock-based compensation expense. This decrease was partially offset by lower other manufacturing and overhead costs of $0.3 million. Gross margin was lower by 7% in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in the prior year. Of the decrease, 5.2% was mainly due to lower sales causing an unfavorable absorption of our manufacturing overhead costs and the additional 1.4% decline was contributed by lower ASP for the quarter due to change in mix of products shipped. Gross margin may fluctuate from time to time due to a variety of factors. For additional discussion please see Part II, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses, and acquisition related costs. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, allocated costs of facilities, information technology and depreciation. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Operating Expenses: Research and development $ 25,544 $ 24,457 $ 1,087 4 % Selling, general and administrative 23,913 20,733 3,180 15 % Acquisition related costs 3,242 3,242 n/a Total operating expenses $ 52,699 $ 45,190 $ 7,509 17 % Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused on the design and development of Precision Timing solutions. Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, which include stock-based compensation, pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and intellectual property expenses, design tools and prototype-related expenses, facility costs, supplies, professional and consulting fees, and allocated overhead costs, which may be offset by non-recurring engineering contra-expenses recorded in certain periods. There is no assurance that we will have non-recurring engineering contra-expense from period to period. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. However, we expect our research and development expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Research and development expense increased by $1.1 million, or 4%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in non-recurring engineering contra-expense recognized of $0.9 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization of lab equipment and licenses of $0.2 million, and an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million, offset by lower engineering spend towards ongoing new product development of $0.6 million and lower other personnel costs of $0.5 million. 22 Table of Contents There is no guarantee we will enter into a non-recurring engineering arrangement or recognize such contra-expense in any future period. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expense consists of personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, professional and consulting fees, accounting and audit fees, legal costs, field application engineering support, travel costs, advertising expenses and allocated overhead costs. We expect sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our personnel and grow our operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $3.2 million, or 15%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $2.5 million, higher other personnel costs of $0.5 million, and higher advertising costs of $0.4 million, partially offset by reduction in sales commission payouts by $0.3 million due to lower sales, and lower consulting fees of $0.3 million. Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs include legal, regulatory, consulting, and other costs incurred towards the acquisition closed during the year ended December 31, 2023 and changes in the fair value of the sales based earnout liability and acquisition consideration payable. We expect these costs to be dependent on the occurrence of future acquisitions and to be non-recurring. The acquisition related costs incurred for the three months ended March 31, 2024 were related to the completion of the Aura transaction. We may incur incremental costs in 2024 and beyond related to the Aura transaction. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income on short term investments. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Interest Income $ 6,560 $ 5,629 $ 931 17 % Interest income increased by $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in interest rates in the current year. Other Income (Expense), net Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Other income (expense), net $ (213) $ 100 $ (313) (314 %) Other income (expense), net, increased by $0.3 million or 314% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in net unrealized loss on foreign exchange rates due to increased activities in our foreign subsidiaries and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of our deferred tax asset is uncertain, including NOL carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and 23 Table of Contents development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not. Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Income tax expense $ (13) $ (70) $ 57 (81 %) Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $96.3 million and $9.5 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 we also held $421.0 million and $518.7 million of short-term investments, respectively in held-to-maturity securities which consisted of treasury bills. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations, to support growth through capital investments, and to acquire complementary businesses, products, services or technologies in the future. In February 2024, we entered into a Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement") with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated ("Stifel"), under which we may offer and sell from time to time at our sole discretion, up to an aggregate of 1,200,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, through Stifel as our sales agent. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we sold 32,500 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement at a weighted average price of $92.57 per share resulting in net proceeds to us of $2.7 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. The Company used the net proceeds from the shares of common stock offered and sold to replenish funds expended to satisfy anticipated tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the net settlement upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards (RSU) granted to employees under the equity incentive plans. Our purchase obligations primarily include design and simulation licenses and non-cancelable purchase commitments from agreements with our contract manufacturers as well as a multi-year purchase agreement with commitment to purchase minimum quantities of MEMS wafers and research and development, tooling and sample cost under the agreement. For information about our contractual obligations refer to "Note 5 - Lease" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ending March 31, 2024 and "Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. We expect to continue our investing activities to support growth, primarily through the purchase of property and equipment, intellectual property licenses, and capitalized software, to support research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, costs to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and technologies, payment obligations associated with our completed acquisitions based on achievement of certain milestones, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot provide any assurance that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The table below summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,729 $ 11,949 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 91,110 (10,821) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (6,032) 2,534 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 86,807 $ 3,662 Operating Activities In the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities of $1.7 million was primarily due to a net loss of $28.7 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $3.9 million, offset by non-cash expenses of 24 Table of Contents $34.3 million. Non-cash expenses were mainly related to depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, change in fair value of sales based earnout liability and acquisition consideration payable, and net change in unrealized interest on held to maturity investments. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash used primarily due to an increase in inventories as we built our wafer inventory levels, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets due to timing of payments, partially offset by lower accounts receivable due to timing of payments and lower revenue, and higher accounts payable and accrued expenses primarily due to timing of accrued payroll and related benefit payments. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchase and maturities of short-term investments and capital expenditures for property and equipment purchases. Our short-term investments were primarily in treasury bills to earn interest. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment have primarily been for general business purposes, including machinery and equipment, leasehold improvements, acquired software, computer equipment used internally, and production masks to manufacture our products. In the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $91.1 million. We paid $294.4 million to purchase short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities. We paid $3.0 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment and intangibles to support the general business operations. All such payments were offset by $388.5 million proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of proceeds from issuance of shares and payments of withholding taxes on restricted stock units. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we sold 32,500 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $2.7 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $0.1 million and offering costs of $0.2 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $8.7 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements and accompanying disclosures requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), has defined a companys critical accounting estimates as estimates that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified our most critical accounting estimates to be as follows: (1) revenue recognition; (2) business combinations; and (3) inventory. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information not presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates if the assumptions, judgments, and conditions upon which they are based turn out to be inaccurate. Management believes that there have been no significant changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on February 26, 2024.