Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The MD&A contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that involve risks and uncertainties, which are discussed under Part I, Item 1A. Overview The ability to accurately measure and reference time has been essential to humankinds greatest inventions and technological advances. Timing technology has continued to evolve over centuries, underpinning broader technological evolution and is the heartbeat of digital electronic systems. Here, timing ensures that the system runs smoothly and reliably by providing and distributing clock signals to various critical components such as central processing units, communication and interface ICs, and radio frequency components. As electronics evolve to deliver higher performance, connectivity, and intelligence, even in increasingly challenging environments, while also being more complex and size-constrained, we believe they will require more sophisticated semiconductor-based timing solutions that cannot be developed in legacy quartz crystal-based technologies. Precision timing fills this need with the performance, power, size, and cost that is required by these applications. We are a leading provider of Precision Timing solutions to the global electronics industry. Our Precision Timing solutions are the heartbeat of our customers electronic systems, providing the timing functionality that is needed for electronics to operate reliably and accurately. We provide Precision Timing solutions that are differentiated by high performance, high resilience, and high reliability, along with programmability, small size, and low power consumption. Our products have been designed into over 300 applications across our target markets, including communications, datacenter and enterprise, automotive, industrial, aerospace, mobile, IoT, and consumer. Our current solutions include various types of oscillators, as well as clock ICs and resonators. Our all-silicon solutions are based on three fundamental areas of technical expertise: MEMS, analog mixed-signal design, and advanced system-level integration. This expertise enables us to design silicon MEMS resonators, analog circuits, as well as systems and packaging, and bring these all together to deliver a system-level solution that synergistically solves customers complex timing problems. In this aspect, we believe we are different than quartz-based timing providers, who typically have expertise in designing and manufacturing resonator components, but usually outsource the analog circuit design and packaging. We also have a deep understanding of the mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of materials, which is a key requirement for developing our proprietary MEMS processes. To maximize MEMS first-silicon success, we have also developed our own MEMS simulation tools. We are also different in that our MEMS resonators are made using semiconductor technology which has significant benefits in features, performance, manufacturing, and cost, while the quartz resonator and oscillator suppliers use quartz crystal material Compared to traditional clock IC suppliers, we are different in that we design the resonator in-house and can integrate it into the clock IC package. Our analog/mixed-signal die are developed using industry-standard processes and deliver high levels of performance using programmable PLLs, temperature sensors, regulators, data converters, drivers and other building blocks. Unlike most clock IC vendors, we do not rely on quartz vendors to provide the quartz resonator clock reference that is required for their clock ICs to function. Our expertise creates supply chain advantages for us and most importantly, enables us to design and build complete timing systems that result in performance advantages, providing a complete solution to the customer. Our Precision Timing solutions are designed to be resilient to harsh environmental stressors. For the communications, datacenter and enterprise market, our products provide high performance and resilience in dense, less-controlled environments that experience extreme conditions. The resilience of our products becomes an increasing advantage as equipment is placed in dense, harsh environments and moves closer to the customer with the rollout of 5G, the rapid expansion in cloudification, and deployment of hyperscale and AI datacenters. For the automotive market, our solutions can be utilized in automotive electronics, including ADAS for self-driving cars, which require increased timing accuracy. For the industrial market, our products offer programmability and high reliability for the diverse operating conditions of industrial equipment, including high temperatures, mechanical shock, and vibration. For the aerospace market, our solutions provide high reliability and lower acceleration sensitivity for end products that operate in rugged conditions. For the mobile, IoT and consumer market, our timing solutions offer high performance at optimal power consumption and size, as our customers fit more functionality into smaller devices. In all of these markets, the trend for increased data transfer at higher speeds and demand for lower latency continues to grow. This requires higher levels of performance in timing and synchronization. Additionally, as electronics continue to proliferate in all industries and areas of our daily life, digital devices are increasingly subjected to less 45 Table of Contents controlled environments, making resiliency ever more important. These industry trends place higher demands on timing components, escalating the importance of resilient and reliable Precision Timing. We believe that the total timing market is approximately $10 billion in size. Since our founding, we have focused on transforming this market with compelling solutions that solve difficult timing problems. Historically, our revenue has been substantially delivered from sales of oscillator systems across our target end markets. In December 2023, we acquired clocking products through the acquisition of certain assets and the exclusive license to certain intellectual property from Aura Semiconductor Pvt. Ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities (together, "Aura") relating to Aura's timing business and clock products that significantly expands our presence within the clocking market. With the addition of all four categories of clock products including network synchronizers, jitter cleaners, clock generators, and buffers, we now offer a comprehensive portfolio of timing solutions. By pairing the new SiTime clocking products with our MEMS oscillators and/or our resonators, we expect to be able to offer a more complete clock tree that is simpler to design with higher performance, and more resilient to environmental stressors with better reliability. SiTime is now a key provider of all differentiated products in timing oscillators, clocks, and resonators combined with depth in engineering expertise in Precision Timing solutions. We sell our products primarily through distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. We leverage our global network of distributors to address the broad set of end markets we serve. For our largest accounts, dedicated sales personnel work with the end customer to ensure that our solutions fully address the end customers timing needs. Our smaller customers can select the optimum timing solution for their needs by working directly with our sales personnel or distributors or by shopping on our online store, SiTimeDirect. We operate a fabless business model, where we outsource manufacturing to semiconductor industry suppliers, which allows us to focus on, and excel in, the design, marketing, and sales of our products. A fabless infrastructure gives us production flexibility and the ability to scale capacity up and down to meet demand. While this model allows us to operate with lower capital expenditure investment than other semiconductor companies that own fabs, we may be required to make such investments from time to time primarily to strengthen our supply chain and optimize our costs. These investments could put downward pressure on our gross margins if demand for our products does not materialize as expected. Further, this model could also subject us to supply constraints, when demand for our products is higher than anticipated, resulting in increased costs and impacting our gross margins. Our programmable architecture also plays a key role in ensuring optimal production flexibility. In contrast to products offered by traditional timing device suppliers, our products are batch produced and then custom programmed to customer needs, allowing us to offer shorter lead times and the ability to meet custom requirements more easily. Since our IPO in November 2019, while our revenue has grown, gross margins have improved, and new opportunities for growth for our business have emerged, adverse macroeconomic events including geopolitical tensions and conflicts have substantially increased. In 2020 and 2021, there were a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the supply of analog circuits manufactured by certain foundries, including TSMC, and affecting outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers. We believe that the effects of the industry-wide supply constraints on other timing device suppliers contributed in part to our revenue and gross margin growth in 2021 and the first half of 2022. In 2022 and 2023, macroeconomic events such as rising inflation, fear of recession, equity market volatility, geopolitical tensions, war, decreased consumer spending, lower demand for electronic products following a period of strong demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, and the COVID-19 pandemic measures implemented in China, harmed sales of our products and results of operations. We believe that some of our customers built up inventory of our products in 2022 to overcome the industry-wide supply constraints that occurred in the previous periods and that the macroeconomic events in the second half of 2022 and through 2023 led to reduced demand for our customers' products, which led to an inventory buildup at some of our customers and their affiliates, partners and contract manufacturers, which has adversely affected sales of our products. We believe that while this inventory buildup has reduced through the second half of 2023 and in 2024, any further increase could negatively impact the sales of our products and could result in decreases in our sales and margins, and could materially harm our results of operations. The future effects of macroeconomic events on our business and results of operations, including inventory levels at our customers and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers as well as demand for our products, are uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion please see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Global macroeconomic conditions have harmed and may continue to harm our business and Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. 46 Table of Contents Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Customer Orders and Forecasts Because our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders, orders may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled with little or no notice and without penalty. Cancellations of orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from customers exposes us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. We may not be able to fulfill increased demand, at least in the short term, as we do not intend to acquire excess inventory to pre-build custom products. Design Wins with New and Existing Customers Our solutions enable our customers to differentiate their product offerings and position themselves to gain market share. We work closely with our customers to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. Our end customers continuously develop new products in existing and new application areas. We also consider design wins critical to our future success and anticipate being increasingly dependent on revenue from new design wins for our new higher-end products which have higher average selling prices (ASPs). The selection process is typically lengthy and may require us to incur significant design and development expenditures in pursuit of a design win with no assurance that our solutions will be selected. As a result, the loss of any key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could adversely affect our business. Customer Demand and Product Life Cycles Once customers design our Precision Timing solutions into their products, we closely monitor all aspects of their demand cycle, including the initial design phase, prototype production, volume production, and inventories, as well as end-market demand, including seasonality, cyclicality, and the competitive landscape. Given our customer relationships and the long-term aspects of our solutions, we benefit from visibility into customer demand. This in turn provides an opportunity for us to monitor and refine our business fundamentals. Product Adoption within New Markets and Applications As we evaluate new market opportunities and bring new products to market, we pay particular attention to forecasts by industry analysts and the adoption curve of technology. We also analyze in detail potential competing forces that could hinder such adoption. If we fail to anticipate or respond to technological shifts or market demands, or to timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to the same, it could result in decreased revenue and the loss of our design wins to our competitors. Pricing, Product Cost, and Product Mix The ASPs of our products vary significantly. While the ASP of any individual product generally decreases over time, our average ASPs have historically remained relatively flat as we continue to introduce new higher-end products with higher ASPs. Our pricing and margins depend on customer demand as well as the volumes and the features of the timing devices we provide to our customers. We continually monitor and work to reduce the cost of our products and improve the potential value our solutions provide to our customers as we target new design win opportunities and manage the product life cycles of our existing customer designs. Since we rely on third-party wafer foundries and assembly and test contractors to manufacture, assemble, and test our products, we maintain a close relationship with our suppliers to improve quality and increase yields. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by a variety of factors, including ASPs, and product mix in a given period, material costs, yields, inventory write-downs and manufacturing operations costs. We believe the primary driver of gross margin is the ASPs negotiated between us and our customers relative to material costs and yield improvement. As our products mature and unit volumes increase, we expect their ASPs to decline. These declines often coincide with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, assembly, and testing costs, which offset some or all of the margin reduction that results from lower ASPs. However, we expect our gross margin to fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of changes in ASPs due to new product introductions, existing product transitions into high-volume manufacturing, manufacturing costs, and our product mix. 47 Table of Contents Cyclical Nature of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these factors, together with changes in macroeconomic conditions, can cause significant upturns and downturns in the semiconductor industry, and in our business. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any prolonged or significant downturn in the semiconductor industry generally could adversely affect our business and reduce demand for our products and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our products and we can provide no assurance that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. We cannot predict the duration or timing of any downturn or upturn in the semiconductor industry. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands, except percentage) Revenue $ 202,697 $ 143,993 $ 283,605 $ 58,704 41 % Cost of revenue 98,203 61,905 100,643 36,298 59 % Gross profit 104,494 82,088 182,962 22,406 27 % Operating expenses: Research and development 106,855 97,589 90,288 9,266 9 % Selling, general and administrative 102,157 83,971 76,532 18,186 22 % Acquisition related costs 10,722 7,728 2,994 39 % Total operating expenses 219,734 189,288 166,820 30,446 16 % Income (loss) from operations (115,240) (107,200) 16,142 (8,040) 8 % Interest income 22,883 26,958 7,291 (4,075) (15 %) Other expense, net (758) (141) (97) (617) 438 % Income (loss) before income taxes (93,115) (80,383) 23,336 (12,732) 16 % Income tax expense (486) (152) (82) (334) 220 % Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders and comprehensive income (loss) $ (93,601) $ (80,535) $ 23,254 $ (13,066) 16 % A discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2023 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Form 10-K for fiscal 2023 filed with the SEC on February 26, 2024. Revenue We derive revenue primarily from sales of Precision Timing solutions to distributors. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders which may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled, with little or no notice. We recognize product revenue upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Revenue $ 202,697 $ 143,993 $ 283,605 $ 58,704 41 % 48 Table of Contents Revenue increased by $58.7 million, or 41%, for 2024 compared to 2023. The increase was primarily related to an increase in sales volume by 36% as well as an increase in ASPs of our products due to change in mix of the products we shipped. Lower sales volume in the prior year was driven by excess inventory buildup at many of our customers, distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers, and lower demand for our products due to macroeconomic conditions. Our top ten direct customers, including distributors, accounted for approximately 84%, 82% and 74% of net revenues in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Three customers each in 2024, and 2022, and four customers in 2023 which are distributors of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues. International sales,identified based upon the ship-to location of the customers who purchased the Companys products, represented approximately 92%, 86%, and 88% of net revenues in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of wafers acquired from third-party foundries, assembly, packaging, and test cost of our products paid to third-party contract manufacturers, and personnel and other costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation of production equipment, inventory write-downs, shipping and handling costs, and allocation of overhead and facility costs. We also include credits for rebates received from third-party contract manufacturers in cost of revenue. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Cost of Revenue $ 98,203 $ 61,905 $ 100,643 $ 36,298 59 % Gross Profit 104,494 82,088 182,962 22,406 27 % Gross Margin 52 % 57 % 65 % Gross profit increased by $22.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Gross profit increased $41.2 million mainly from higher revenue. This increase was partially offset by higher amortization from acquired intangibles of $11.6 million, and higher other manufacturing and overhead costs of $6.8 million, which primarily consists of depreciation and amortization, freight and inventory reserves. Gross margin was lower by 5% in the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease was mainly due to higher amortization from acquired intangibles by 6%, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation costs by 1%. Gross margin may fluctuate from time to time due to a variety of factors. For additional discussion please see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses, and acquisition related costs. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, allocated costs of facilities, information technology, and depreciation. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Operating Expenses: Research and development $ 106,855 $ 97,589 $ 90,288 $ 9,266 9 % Selling, general and administrative 102,157 83,971 76,532 18,186 22 % Acquisition related costs 10,722 7,728 2,994 39 % Total operating expenses $ 219,734 $ 189,288 $ 166,820 $ 30,446 16 % 49 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused on the design and development of Precision Timing solutions. Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, as well as pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and intellectual property expenses, design tools and prototype-related expenses, facility costs, supplies, professional and consulting fees, and allocated overhead costs, which may be offset by non-recurring engineering contra-expenses recorded in certain periods. There is no assurance that we will have non-recurring engineering contra-expense from period to period. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. However, we expect our research and development expense to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Research and development expense increased by $9.3 million, or 9%, for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $5.0 million, a decrease in non-recurring engineering contra-expense recognized of $2.3 million, and higher engineering spend towards ongoing new product development of $1.6 million. There is no guarantee we will enter into a non-recurring engineering arrangement or recognize such contra-expense in any future period. Based on our current contracts, we expect the non-recurring engineering contra-expense to decline in future periods. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expense consists of personnel costs, professional and consulting fees, accounting and audit fees, legal costs, field application engineering support, travel costs, advertising expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect sales, general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our personnel and grow our operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $18.2 million, or 22%, for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $12.0 million, higher wages and bonus of $4.2 million related to increased headcount, higher sales commission payouts of $0.7 million due to higher sales, and higher travel costs of $0.6 million. Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs include legal, regulatory, consulting, and other costs incurred towards the acquisition closed during the year ended December 31, 2023 and changes in the fair value of the sales-based earnout liability and interest accretion related to the acquisition consideration payable. Acquisition related costs increased by $3.0 million, or 39%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to accretion of acquisition consideration payable of $3.3 million and an increase in the fair value of sales-based earnout liability of $4.9 million, partially offset by a reduction in one-time acquisition costs related to the 2023 Aura transaction of $5.2 million. We will continue to incur incremental costs beyond 2024 related to the Aura transaction arising from changes in the fair value of the sales-based earnout liability and accretion of acquisition consideration payable. Interest Income and Other Expense, net Interest income and other expense consists primarily of interest income on our cash balances, and foreign exchange gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Interest income $ 22,883 $ 26,958 $ 7,291 $ (4,075) (15)% Other expense, net (758) (141) (97) (617) 438 % Total interest income and other expense, net $ 22,125 $ 26,817 $ 7,194 $ (4,692) (17)% 50 Table of Contents Interest income and other expense, net decreased $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023, primarily related to lower interest income earned on short term investments due to lower interest rates and a decrease in investment balances arising from acquisition related payments and higher capital expenditures. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. The income tax expense in foreign jurisdictions was higher due to increased operational activities in our foreign entities. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of our deferred tax asset is uncertain, including net operation losses (NOL), carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not. At December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had federal NOL carry-forwards of approximately $250.7 million and $230.2 million, respectively, state NOL carry-forwards of approximately $84.5 million and $83.7 million, respectively, and foreign NOL carry-forwards of approximately $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively. These federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards will expire beginning in 2028. At December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $3.6 million and $3.6 million, respectively for state income tax purposes. The research and development credit carryforwards for federal tax purposes will begin to expire in 2025, and state tax credits carry forward indefinitely. Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 vs 2023 2024 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Income tax expense $ (486) $ (152) $ (82) $ (334) 220% Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024 and 2023 we held short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities of $412.7 million and $518.7 million, respectively, which consisted of Treasury Bills. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we also had cash and cash equivalents of $6.1 million and $9.5 million, respectively. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations, to support growth through capital investments, and to acquire complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies in the future. In February 2024, we entered into a Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement") with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated ("Stifel"), under which we may offer and sell from time to time at our sole discretion, up to an aggregate of 1,200,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, through Stifel as our sales agent. The Company used the net proceeds from the shares of common stock offered and sold to replenish funds expended to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the net settlement upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards (RSU) granted to employees under the equity incentive plans. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold 332,500 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement at a weighted average price of $151.91 per share resulting in net proceeds to us of $48.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. Our purchase obligations primarily include design and simulation licenses. For information about our contractual obligations refer to "Note 5 - Lease" and Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect to continue our investing activities to support growth, primarily through the purchase of property and equipment, intellectual property licenses, and capitalized software, to support research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot provide any assurance that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 23,190 $ 8,056 $ 39,752 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 64,759 (36,660) (560,088) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (91,311) 3,469 (4,522) Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (3,362) $ (25,135) $ (524,858) Operating Activities In 2024, net cash provided by operating activities of $23.2 million was primarily due to net loss of $93.6 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $25.0 million, offset by non-cash expenses of $141.8 million. Non-cash expenses were mainly related to stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, change in fair value of sales based earnout liability and acquisition consideration payable, inventory write-downs and net changes in unrealized interest on held to maturity investments. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash used for operations primarily due to higher accounts receivable due to timing of shipments, increase in inventories as we managed our inventory levels, higher prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by higher accrued expenses and other liabilities and higher accounts payable due to timing of payments. In 2023, net cash provided by operating activities of $8.1 million was primarily due to a net loss of $80.5 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $4.3 million, offset by depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, a net change in unrealized interest on held to maturity securities, change in fair value of sales based earnout liability and acquisition consideration payable for a total of $92.9 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash provided primarily due to lower accounts receivable due to timing of shipments offset by an increase in inventories as we managed our inventory levels, higher prepaid expenses and other assets, lower accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments and a decrease in accounts payable. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of the purchase of short-term investments and capital expenditures for property and equipment purchases. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment have primarily been for general business purposes, including machinery and equipment, leasehold improvements, acquired software, computer equipment used internally, and production masks to manufacture our products. In 2024, cash provided by investing activities was $64.8 million. We received proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments of $909.3 million. This was partially offset by purchases of $807.8 million of short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities, $36.2 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment to support our operations and other property and equipment for general business purposes, and $0.5 million to purchase intangible assets in software licenses. In 2023, cash used in investing activities was $36.7 million. We paid $1,046.4 million to purchase short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities and $39.0 million for the acquisition of certain assets and the exclusive license to certain intellectual property from Aura. We paid $8.9 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment to support our operations and other property and equipment for general business purposes. We paid $3.3 million to purchase intangible assets in software licenses. All such payments were partially offset by $1,061.0 million proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of proceeds from issuance of shares, payment of withholding of taxes on restricted stock units and payment of acquisition related consideration and earnouts. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold 332,500 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $48.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $1.0 million and offering costs of $0.7 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings 52 Table of Contents paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $52.6 million, payment towards the Aura transaction of $75.2 million and related payment of earnouts of $12.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold 400,000 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $44.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $0.9 million and offering costs of $0.3 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $41.3 million. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. The critical accounting policies requiring estimates, assumptions, and judgments that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are described below. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue from product sales primarily to distributors. We recognize product revenue, at a point in time, upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Variable consideration is estimated and reflected as an adjustment to the transaction price. Depending on the terms of the contract, variable consideration is estimated using either the expected value approach or the most likely value approach. We determine variable consideration at the end of each reporting period, which consists primarily of price adjustments and product returns by estimating the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to from our customers based on historical experience. Adjustments for the variable consideration has been in the range of 2% to 3% on a quarterly basis for the current year. Our customers have limited return rights under our contracts with them. If variable considerations are anticipated to exceed historical experience, we may adjust our sales returns allowance accordingly to properly reflect our net revenue. Since our performance obligations relate to contracts with a duration of less than one year, we do not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied at the end of the reporting period. Business Combinations We apply the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805), in accounting for our acquisitions. ASC 805 requires that we evaluate whether a transaction pertains to an acquisition of assets, or to an acquisition of a business. A business is defined as an integrated set of assets and activities that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return to investors. Asset acquisitions are accounted for by allocating the cost of the acquisition to the individual assets and liabilities assumed on a relative fair value basis; whereas the acquisition of a business requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair values, including in-process research and development. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our valuation of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets, that were derived using valuation techniques and models such as the income approach. Such models require use of significant estimates including future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures, and other costs, and discount rates. The approach to estimating an initial contingent consideration associated with the purchase price also uses similar unobservable factors such as revenue projections over the term of the contingent earn-out period, discounted for the 53 Table of Contents period over which the initial contingent consideration is measured, and expected volatility. Based upon these assumptions, the initial contingent consideration is then valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. We have used third-party qualified specialists to assist management in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This includes assistance with the determination of economic useful lives and valuation of identifiable intangibles. We estimate the fair value based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from our estimates. Estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we record certain adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Contingent consideration which are compensatory will be expensed over the required service period. All acquisition-related costs are accounted for as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Contingent consideration is remeasured each reporting period using Level 3 inputs, and the change in fair value, including accretion for the passage of time, is recognized in acquisition related costs in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Inventories Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-process, and finished goods and are stated at the lower of standard cost, (which approximates actual cost on a first-in first out basis) or net realizable value. The Company reduces excess and obsolete inventories to their estimated net realizable value based on management's assessment of future demand, historical usage of by product, and market conditions. Once written-down, inventory write-downs are not reversed until the inventory is sold or scrapped. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements under Part II, Item 8 for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.