Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The MD&A contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that involve risks and uncertainties, which are discussed under Part I, Item 1A. Overview The ability to accurately measure and reference time has been essential to many of humankinds greatest inventions and technological advances. Timing technology has continued to evolve over centuries, forming a critical aspect of broader technological evolution. Timing is the heartbeat of digital electronic systems, ensuring that the system runs smoothly and reliably by providing and distributing clock signals to various critical components such as central processing units, communication and interface ICs, and radio frequency components. As electronics evolve to deliver higher performance levels, even in increasingly challenging environments, while also being more complex and size-constrained, we believe they will require more semiconductor-based sophisticated timing solutions that cannot be developed in legacy quartz crystal-based technologies. Precision timing, a category that we created (Precision Timing), fills this need with the performance, power, size, and cost that is required by these new applications. We are a leading provider of Precision Timing solutions to the global electronics industry. Our Precision Timing solutions are the heartbeat of our customers electronic systems, providing the timing functionality that is needed for electronics to operate reliably and correctly. We provide Precision Timing solutions that are differentiated by high performance, high resilience, and high reliability, along with programmability, small size, and low power consumption. Our products have been designed into over 300 applications across our target markets, including communications, datacenter and enterprise, automotive, industrial, aerospace, mobile, IoT and consumer. Our current solutions include various types of oscillators, as well as clock integrated circuits ("ICs"), and resonators. Our all-silicon solutions are based on three fundamental areas of expertise: micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), analog mixed-signal design capabilities, and advanced system-level integration expertise. At the heart of our Precision Timing solutions are our MEMS, analog/mixed-signal, and systems technologies. We have a deep understanding of mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of materials, which is a key requirement for developing our proprietary MEMS processes. To maximize MEMS first-silicon success, we have also developed our own MEMS simulation tools. Our analog/mixed-signal die are developed using industry-standard processes and deliver high levels of performance using programmable phase-locked loops, temperature sensors, regulators, data converters, drivers and other building blocks. In 2023, we advanced our technology and expanded our product portfolio, including with the closing of an agreement with Aura Semiconductor Pvt. Ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities (together, Aura) in December 2023 for the acquisition of certain assets and an exclusive license to certain intellectual property from Aura. The agreement provides that the intellectual property underlying the license from Aura will be delivered on an ongoing and periodic basis through July 2025. The purchase price for the transaction is approximately $148 million in cash, and we paid approximately $36 million at closing in December 2023. The remaining purchase price for the transaction will be paid on a periodic basis upon Aura delivering products that meet certain specified criteria and contain the licensed intellectual property. The consideration payable to Aura for the transaction also includes potential earnout payments based on agreed multiples of net revenue generated by sales by us of products containing licensed intellectual property through calendar year 2028, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $120 million. The agreement with Aura contains certain covenants and restrictions, including certain geographic restrictions providing that for five years following closing of the transaction we are prohibited from selling products containing certain intellectual property licensed from Aura to entities with group headquarters of the design win customer located in the People's Republic of China ("PRC"), and Aura is prohibited from selling products containing certain intellectual property licensed to us to entities with group headquarters of the design win customer located outside the PRC. Historically, our revenue has been substantially delivered from sales of oscillator systems across our target end markets. In addition to oscillators, we have expanded our product portfolio to include clock IC and timing sync solutions. We seek to expand our presence in our end markets across all product categories. We sell our products primarily through distributors, who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. We leverage our global network of distributors to address the broad set of end markets we serve. For our largest accounts, dedicated sales personnel work with the end customer to ensure that our solutions fully address the end customers timing needs. Our smaller customers can select the optimum timing solution for 45 Table of Contents their needs by working directly with our sales personnel or our distributors or by shopping on our online store, SiTimeDirect. We operate a fabless business model, allowing us to focus on the design, sales, and marketing of our products, quickly scale production, and significantly reduce our capital expenditures by using the semiconductor industry manufacturing infrastructure. A fabless infrastructure gives us production flexibility and the ability to scale capacity up and down quickly to meet demand. Our programmable architecture also plays a key role in ensuring optimal production flexibility, as it allows us to offer shorter lead times and the ability to meet custom requirements more easily. In 2020 and 2021 there were a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the supply of analog circuits manufactured by certain foundries, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, and affecting outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers. We believe that the effects of the industry-wide supply constraints on other timing device suppliers contributed in part to our revenue and gross margin growth in 2021 and the first half of 2022. In 2022 and 2023 macroeconomic events such as rising inflation, fear of recession, equity market volatility, geopolitical tensions, war, decreased consumer spending, lower demand for electronic products following a period of strong demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, and the COVID-19 pandemic measures implemented in China, harmed sales of our products and results of operations. We believe that some of our customers built up inventory of our products in 2022 to overcome the industry-wide supply constraints that occurred in the previous periods and that the macroeconomic events in 2022 and 2023 led to reduced demand for our customers' products, which led to an inventory buildup at some of our customers and their affiliates, partners and contract manufacturers, which has adversely affected sales of our products. We believe that this inventory buildup will negatively impact the sales of our products until such inventory buildup is reduced and could result in decreases in our sales and margins, and could materially harm our results of operations. The future effects of macroeconomic events on our business and results of operations, including inventory levels at our customer and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers as well as demand for our products, are uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion please see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Global macroeconomic conditions have harmed and may continue to harm our business and Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. Impact of COVID-19 on our Business The COVID-19 pandemic impacted our workforce and the operations of our customers and suppliers during 2022, however in 2023 it did not have a material impact on our workforce or, to our knowledge, the operations of our customers or suppliers. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Customer Orders and Forecasts Because our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders, orders may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled with little or no notice and without penalty. Cancellations of orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from customers exposes us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. We may not be able to fulfill increased demand, at least in the short term, as we do not intend to acquire excess inventory to pre-build custom products. Design Wins with New and Existing Customers Our solutions enable our customers to differentiate their product offerings and position themselves to gain market share. We work closely with our customers to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. Our end customers continuously develop new products in existing and new application areas. We also consider design wins critical to our future success and anticipate being increasingly dependent on revenue from new design wins for our new higher-end products with higher average selling prices (ASPs). The selection process is typically lengthy and may require us to incur significant design and development expenditures in pursuit of a design win with no assurance that our solutions will be selected. As a result, the loss of any key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products into which our product is designed could adversely affect our business. Customer Demand and Product Life Cycles Once customers design our Precision Timing solutions into their products, we closely monitor all aspects of their demand cycle, including the initial design phase, prototype production, volume production, and inventories, as well as end- 46 Table of Contents market demand, including seasonality, cyclicality, and the competitive landscape. Given our customer relationships and the long-term aspects of our solutions, we benefit from visibility into customer demand. This in turn provides an opportunity for us to monitor and refine our business fundamentals. Product Adoption within New Markets and Applications As we evaluate new market opportunities and bring new products to market, we pay particular attention to forecasts by industry analysts and the adoption curve of technology. We also analyze in detail potential competing forces that could hinder such adoption. If we fail to anticipate or respond to technological shifts or market demands, or to timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to the same, it could result in decreased revenue and the loss of our design wins to our competitors. Pricing, Product Cost, and Product Mix The ASPs of our products vary significantly. While the ASP of any individual product generally decreases over time, our average ASPs have historically remained relatively flat as we continue to introduce new higher-end products with higher ASPs. Our pricing and margins depend on customer demand as well as the volumes and the features of the timing devices we provide to our customers. We continually monitor and work to reduce the cost of our products and improve the potential value our solutions provide to our customers as we target new design win opportunities and manage the product life cycles of our existing customer designs. Since we rely on third-party wafer foundries and assembly and test contractors to manufacture, assemble, and test our products, we maintain a close relationship with our suppliers to improve quality and increase yields. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been, and will continue to be, affected by a variety of factors, including ASPs, and product mix in a given period, material costs, yields, inventory write-downs and manufacturing operations costs. We believe the primary driver of gross margin is the ASPs negotiated between us and our customers relative to material costs and yield improvement. As our products mature and unit volumes increase, we expect their ASPs to decline. These declines often coincide with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, assembly, and testing costs, which offset some or all of the margin reduction that results from lower ASPs. However, we expect our gross margin to fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of changes in ASPs due to new product introductions, existing product transitions into high-volume manufacturing, manufacturing costs, and our product mix. Cyclical Nature of the Semiconductor Industry The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these factors, together with changes in macroeconomic conditions, can cause significant upturns and downturns in the semiconductor industry, and in our business. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any prolonged or significant downturn in the semiconductor industry generally could adversely affect our business and reduce demand for our products and otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our products and we can provide no assurance that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. We cannot predict the duration or timing of any downturn or upturn in the semiconductor industry. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentage) Revenue $ 143,993 $ 283,605 $ 218,808 $ (139,612) (49 %) Cost of revenue 61,905 100,643 79,346 (38,738) (38 %) Gross profit 82,088 182,962 139,462 (100,874) (55 %) Operating expenses: Research and development 97,589 90,288 52,104 7,301 8 % Selling, general and administrative 83,971 76,532 54,515 7,439 10 % Acquisition related costs 7,728 7,728 n/a Total operating expenses 189,288 166,820 106,619 22,468 13 % Income (loss) from operations (107,200) 16,142 32,843 (123,342) (764 %) Interest income 26,958 7,291 19,667 270 % Other expense, net (141) (97) (488) (44) 45 % Income (loss) before income taxes (80,383) 23,336 32,355 (103,719) (444 %) Income tax expense (152) (82) (78) (70) 85 % Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders and comprehensive income $ (80,535) $ 23,254 $ 32,277 $ (103,789) (446 %) A discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2021 to fiscal 2022 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Form 10-K for fiscal 2022 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023. Revenue We derive revenue primarily from sales of Precision Timing solutions to distributors who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders which may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled, with little or no notice. We recognize product revenue upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Revenue $ 143,993 $ 283,605 $ 218,808 $ (139,612) (49 %) Revenue decreased by $139.6 million, or 49%, for 2023 compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in sales volume by 47% as well as decrease in ASPs. Lower sales volume was driven by lower demand for our products due to macroeconomic conditions, and excess inventory buildup at many of our customers and end-customers, distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers. Lower ASPs of our products was primarily related to change in mix of the products we shipped. Our top ten direct customers, including distributors, accounted for approximately 82%, 74% and 76% of net revenues in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Four customers in 2023 and three customers each in 2022, and 2021, which are distributors of our products, each accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues. International sales represented approximately 86%, 88%, and 94% of net revenues in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 48 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of wafers acquired from third-party foundries, assembly, packaging, and test cost of our products paid to third-party contract manufacturers, and personnel and other costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation of production equipment, inventory write-downs, amortization of internally developed software, shipping and handling costs, and allocation of overhead and facility costs. We also include credits for rebates received from foundries to cost of revenue. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Cost of Revenue $ 61,905 $ 100,643 $ 79,346 $ (38,738) (38 %) Gross Profit 82,088 182,962 139,462 (100,874) (55 %) Gross Margin 57 % 65 % 64 % Gross profit decreased by $100.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. Gross profit decreased $104.2 million mainly from lower revenue. This decrease was partially offset by lower other manufacturing and overhead costs of $3.3 million. Gross margin was lower by 8% in the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. Of the decrease, 6% was mainly due to lower sales volume causing an unfavorable absorption of our manufacturing overhead costs and the additional 2% decline was contributed by lower ASP for the year ended December 31, 2023. Gross margin may fluctuate from time to time due to a variety of factors. For additional discussion please see Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" of this report, especially the risk factor titled Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative expenses, and acquisition related costs. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, allocated costs of facilities, information technology, and depreciation. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Operating Expenses: Research and development $ 97,589 $ 90,288 $ 52,104 $ 7,301 8 % Selling, general and administrative 83,971 76,532 54,515 7,439 10 % Acquisition related costs 7,728 7,728 n/a Total operating expenses $ 189,288 $ 166,820 $ 106,619 $ 22,468 13 % Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused on the design and development of Precision Timing solutions. Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, which include stock-based compensation, as well as pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and intellectual property expenses, design tools and prototype-related expenses, facility costs, supplies, professional and consulting fees, and allocated overhead costs, which may be offset by non-recurring engineering contra-expenses recorded in certain periods. There is no assurance that we will have non-recurring engineering contra-expense from period to period. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. However, we expect our research and development expense to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. 49 Table of Contents Research and development expense increased by $7.3 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $7.7 million, a decrease in non-recurring engineering contra-expense recognized of $5.1 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization of lab equipment and licenses of $2.7 million, and higher personnel costs of $1.4 million due to increased headcount, partially offset by lower engineering spend towards ongoing new product development of $9.5 million. There is no guarantee we will enter into a non-recurring engineering arrangement or recognize such contra-expense in any future period. Based on our current contracts, we expect the non-recurring engineering contra-expense to decline in future periods. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expense consists of personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, professional and consulting fees, accounting and audit fees, legal costs, field application engineering support, travel costs, advertising expenses, and allocated overhead costs. We expect sales, general and administrative expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our personnel and grow our operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $7.4 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $10.8 million, higher personnel costs of $1.0 million related to increased headcount, partially offset by $2.4 million reduction in sales commission payouts due to lower sales, lower consulting fees of $1.0 million, and lower advertising spend of $0.7 million. Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs include legal, regulatory, and other costs incurred towards the acquisition closed during the fiscal year. We expect these costs to be dependent on the occurrence of future acquisitions and to be non-recurring. The acquisition related costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2023 were related to the completion of the Aura transaction. We may incur incremental costs in 2024 and beyond related to the Aura transaction. Interest Income and Other Expense, net Interest income and other expense consists primarily of interest income on our cash balances, and foreign exchange gains and losses. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Interest income $ 26,958 $ 7,291 $ $ 19,667 270% Other expense, net (141) (97) (488) (44) 45 % Total interest income and other expense, net $ 26,817 $ 7,194 $ (488) $ 19,623 273% Interest income and other expense, net increased $19.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, primarily related to higher interest income earned on short term investments and net unrealized loss on foreign exchange rates due to increased activities in our foreign subsidiaries and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. The income tax expense in foreign jurisdictions was higher due to increased operational activities in our foreign entities. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of our deferred tax asset is uncertain, including net operation losses (NOL), carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had federal NOL carry-forwards of approximately $230.2 million and $213.3 million, respectively, state NOL carry-forwards of approximately $83.7 million 50 Table of Contents and $65.3 million, respectively, and foreign NOL carry-forwards of approximately $1.7 million and $1.7 million, respectively. These federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards will expire beginning in 2028. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively for U.S. federal income tax purposes and $3.6 million and $3.6 million, respectively for state income tax purposes. The research and development credit carryforwards for federal tax purposes will begin to expire in 2025, and state tax credits carry forward indefinitely. Year Ended December 31, Change 2023 vs 2022 2023 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Income tax expense $ (152) $ (82) $ (78) $ (70) 85% Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.5 million and $34.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2023 we also held $518.7 million of short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities which consisted of Treasury Bills. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations, to support growth through capital investments, and to acquire complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies in the future. In February 2021, we completed a follow-on public offering, in which we issued and sold 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, resulting in net proceeds to us of $181.6 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. In November 2021, we completed a follow-on public offering, in which we issued and sold 1,300,000 shares of our common stock, resulting in net proceeds to us of $279.0 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. In May 2022, we entered into a Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement") with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated ("Stifel"), under which we may offer and sell from time to time at our sole discretion, up to an aggregate of 800,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, through Stifel as our sales agent. The Company used the net proceeds from the shares of common stock offered and sold to replenish funds expended to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the net settlement upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards (RSU) granted to employees under the equity incentive plans. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold 400,000 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement at a weighted average price of $115.06 per share resulting in net proceeds to us of $44.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. Our purchase obligations primarily include design and simulation licenses. For information about our contractual obligations refer to "Note 5 - Lease" and Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We expect to continue our investing activities to support growth, primarily through the purchase of property and equipment, intellectual property licenses, and capitalized software, to support research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot provide any assurance that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 51 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8,056 $ 39,752 $ 59,078 Net cash used in investing activities (36,660) (560,088) (33,788) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,469 (4,522) 460,646 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (25,135) $ (524,858) $ 485,936 Operating Activities In 2023, net cash provided by operating activities of $8.1 million was primarily due to net loss of $80.5 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $4.3 million, offset by depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, net change in unrealized interest on held to maturity securities, change in fair value of sales based earnout liability and acquisition consideration payable for a total of $92.9 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash provided primarily due to lower accounts receivable due to timing of shipments offset by an increase in inventories as we managed our inventory levels, higher prepaid expenses and other assets, lower accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments and a decrease in accounts payable. In 2022, net cash provided by operating activities of $39.8 million was primarily due to net income of $23.3 million and depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and net change in unrealized interest on held to maturity investments of $67.5 million, partially offset by a change in operating assets and liabilities of $51.0 million. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash provided primarily due to higher accounts receivable due to timing of shipments, an increase in inventories as we managed our inventory levels, higher prepaid expenses and other assets related to advance payments to suppliers for inventory and royalties, offset by an increase in accounts payable and lower accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchase of short-term investments, capital expenditures for property and equipment purchases. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment have primarily been for general business purposes, including machinery and equipment, leasehold improvements, acquired software, internally developed software used in production and support of our products, computer equipment used internally, and production masks to manufacture our products. In 2023, cash used in investing activities was $36.7 million. We paid $1,046.4 million to purchase short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities and $39.0 million for the acquisition of certain assets and the exclusive license to certain intellectual property from Aura. We paid $8.9 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment to support our operations and other property and equipment for general business purposes. We paid $3.3 million to purchase intangible assets in software licenses. All such payments were partially offset by $1,061.0 million proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments. In 2022, cash used in investing activities was $560.1 million. We paid $673.4 million to purchase short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities. We paid $31.8 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment to support the increase in demand of our products and other property and equipment for general business purposes. We paid $3.9 million to purchase intangible assets in software licenses. All such payments were offset by $149.0 million proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of proceeds from issuance of shares and withholding of taxes on restricted stock units. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold 400,000 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $44.8 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $0.9 million and offering costs of $0.3 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $41.3 million. 52 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold 225,334 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $33.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $0.7 million and offering costs of $0.2 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $37.6 million. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. The critical accounting policies requiring estimates, assumptions, and judgments that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are described below. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue from product sales primarily to distributors, who in turn sell to original equipment manufacturers or other end customers. We recognize product revenue, at a point in time, upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Variable consideration is estimated and reflected as an adjustment to the transaction price. Depending on the terms of the contract, variable consideration is estimated using either the expected value approach or the most likely value approach. We determine variable consideration at the end of each reporting period, which consists primarily of price adjustments and product returns by estimating the amount of consideration we expect to receive from our customers based on historical experience. Adjustments for the variable consideration has been in the range of 2% to 4% on a quarterly basis for the current year. Our customers have limited return rights under our contracts with them. If variable considerations are anticipated to exceed historical experience, we may adjust our sales returns allowance accordingly to properly reflect our net revenue. Since our performance obligations relate to contracts with a duration of less than one year, we do not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied at the end of the reporting period. Business Combinations We apply the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805), in accounting for our acquisitions. ASC 805 requires that we evaluate whether a transaction pertains to an acquisition of assets, or to an acquisition of a business. A business is defined as an integrated set of assets and activities that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return to investors. Asset acquisitions are accounted for by allocating the cost of the acquisition to the individual assets and liabilities assumed on a relative fair value basis; whereas the acquisition of a business requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair values, including in-process research and development. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Our valuation of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets, that were derived using valuation techniques and models such as the income approach. Such models require use of significant estimates including future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures, and other costs, and discount rates. The approach to estimating an initial contingent consideration associated with the purchase price also uses similar unobservable factors such as revenue projections over the term of the contingent earn-out period, discounted for the period over which the initial contingent consideration is measured, and expected volatility. Based upon these assumptions, the initial contingent consideration is then valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. We have used third-party qualified specialists to assist management in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. This includes assistance with the determination of economic useful lives and valuation of identifiable intangibles. We estimate the fair value based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from our estimates. Estimates associated with the 53 Table of Contents accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we record certain adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Contingent consideration which are compensatory will be expensed over the required service period. All acquisition-related costs are accounted for as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Contingent consideration is remeasured each reporting period using Level 3 inputs, and the change in fair value, including accretion for the passage of time, is recognized in acquisition related costs in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Inventories Inventories consist of raw materials, work-in-process, and finished goods and are stated at the lower of standard cost, determined using first-in first out method or market net realizable value. We review and set standard costs to approximate actual manufacturing costs. We perform detailed reviews of the net realizable value of inventories, both on hand as well as for inventories that we are committed to purchase at the end of each reporting period. We write-down the inventory value for estimated deterioration, excess, obsolete and other factors based on managements assessment of future demand of our inventory. These estimates may include uncertain elements such as our demand forecast. These forecasts are developed based on current backlogs, inputs from our customers, and internal analyses which may consist of customer historical purchasing trends and level of inventory in the distributor channel, actual and anticipated design wins, market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions, changes in strategic direction and other factors. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Once written-down, inventory write-downs are not reversed until the inventory is sold or scrapped. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements under Part II, Item 8 for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.