Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. The information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These forward-looking statements reflect our managements beliefs and views with respect to future events and are based on estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report and are subject to risks and uncertainties. We may, in some cases, use words such as anticipate, believe, could, continue, estimate, expect, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, project, should, will, would, or the negative of those terms, and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: our plans to focus on oscillators, clock ICs, resonators and timing synchronization solutions and to expand our presence in these markets; our expectations regarding our ability to address market and customer demands and to develop new or enhanced solutions to meet those demands in a timely manner; anticipated trends, challenges and growth in our business and the markets in which we operate, including pricing expectations; our expectations regarding our revenue, average selling prices, gross margin, and expenses; our expectations regarding the effects of macroeconomic events in 2023; our expectations regarding dependence on a limited number of customers and end customers; our customer relationships and our ability to retain and expand our customer relationships and to achieve design wins; our expectations regarding the success, cost, and timing of new products; the size and growth potential of the markets for our solutions, and our ability to serve and expand our presence in those markets; our plans to expand sales and marketing efforts through increased collaboration with our distributors and contracted sales representatives, and our plans to grow direct online sales through our self-service online store; our expectations to identify new customers and deliver differentiated precision timing solutions to them; our goal to become the leading provider of precision timing solutions; our positioning of being designed into current systems as well as future products; our belief that our advanced packaging designs can enable the smallest footprints in the industry and provide higher system performance; our expectations regarding competition in our existing and future markets; the impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, employees, revenue and other operating results, liquidity, and cash flows, and its impact on the businesses of our suppliers and customers, and our anticipated responses thereto; our expectations regarding regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; our expectations regarding the performance of, and our relationships with, our third-party suppliers and manufacturers; our expectations regarding our and our customers ability to respond successfully to technological or industry developments; our expectations regarding our ability to attract and retain key personnel; our expectations regarding intellectual property and related litigation; our belief as to the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment funds to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months and our future capital requirements over the longer term; the adequacy and availability of our leased facilities; the accuracy of our estimates regarding capital requirements and needs for additional financing. 16 In addition, any statements contained herein that are statements regarding events or results that may occur in the future may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or referenced in these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this report by these cautionary statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Overview SiTime is a leading provider of precision timing solutions to the global electronics industry. Our precision timing solutions are the heartbeat of our customers electronic systems, providing the timing functionality that is needed for electronics to operate reliably and correctly. We provide precision timing solutions that are differentiated by high performance, high resilience, and high reliability, along with programmability, small size, and low power consumption. Our products have been designed into over 300 applications across our target markets, including communications and enterprise, automotive, industrial, aerospace, mobile, IoT and consumer. Our current solutions include various types of oscillators, clocks, and resonators. Our all-silicon solutions are based on three fundamental areas of expertise: micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), analog mixed-signal circuit design, and advanced system-level integration and packaging. The ability to accurately measure and reference time has been essential to many of humankinds greatest inventions and technological advances. Timing technology has continued to evolve over centuries, and has been instrumental in broader technological advancement. Timing is the heartbeat of digital electronic systems, ensuring that the system runs smoothly and reliably, by providing and distributing clock signals to various critical components such as CPUs, communication and interface chips, and radio frequency components. As electronics evolve to deliver higher performance levels, even in increasingly challenging environments, while also being more complex and space-constrained, we believe they will require more sophisticated timing solutions, and precision timing, a category that SiTime created, fills this need. At the heart of SiTimes precision timing solutions are our micro-electro-mechanical systems ("MEMS"), analog/mixed-signal, and systems technologies. All of our oscillators and clocks contain MEMS and analog die, co-packaged in plastic, ceramic, or chip-scale packages. We have a deep understanding of mechanical, electrical, and thermal properties of materials, which is a key requirement for developing our proprietary MEMS processes. To maximize MEMS first-silicon success, we have also developed our own MEMS simulation tools. Our analog/mixed-signal die are developed using industry-standard processes and deliver high levels of performance using programmable phase-locked loops, temperature sensors, regulators, data converters, drivers and other building blocks. Commercial shipments of SiTimes oscillator products began in 2006. Historically, our revenue has been substantially delivered from sales of oscillators across our target end markets. In addition to oscillators, we have expanded our products to include clock IC and timing sync solutions. We seek to expand our presence in our end markets across all product categories. We sell our products primarily through distributors in Asia, who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. Based on sell-through information provided by our distributors, we believe the majority of our end customers are headquartered in the U.S. We leverage our global network of distributors to address the broad set of end markets we serve. For our largest accounts, dedicated sales personnel work with the end customer to ensure that our solutions fully address the end customers timing needs. Our smaller customers can select the optimum timing solution for their needs by working directly with our sales personnel or our distributors or by shopping on our online store, SiTimeDirect. We operate a fabless business model, allowing us to focus on the design, sales, and marketing of our products, quickly scale production, and significantly reduce our capital expenditures by using the semiconductor industry manufacturing infrastructure. A fabless infrastructure gives us production flexibility and the ability to scale capacity up and down quickly to meet demand. Our 17 programmable architecture also plays a key role in ensuring optimal production flexibility, as it allows us to offer shorter lead times and the ability to meet custom requirements more easily. In 2021 and the first half of 2022, there were a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the supply of analog circuits manufactured by certain foundries, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC"), and affecting outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers. In addition, in 2022, macroeconomic events such as rising inflation, fear of recession, equity market volatility, geopolitical tensions, war, decreased consumer spending, lower demand for electronic products following a period of strong demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, and the COVID-19 pandemic measures implemented in China, harmed sales of our products and results of operations. We expect these macroeconomic events will continue to negatively affect sales of our products and results of operations in 2023. We believe that many of our customers built up inventory in our products in 2022 to overcome the industry-wide supply constraints that occurred in the previous periods. We also believe that the macroeconomic events in 2022 led to reduced demand for our customers' products, which led to an inventory buildup at many of our customers, including distributors and their affiliates, partners and contract manufacturers. These inventory buildups at our customers have adversely affected sales of our products and we believe that this will continue until the inventory buildups are reduced and demand increases. The inventory buildups at many of our customers, including distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers could result in significant decreases in our sales, margins, and could materially harm our results of operations. The future effects of macroeconomic events on our business and results of operations, including inventory levels at our customers and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers as well as demand for our products, are uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion please see Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report, especially the risk factor titled Global macroeconomic conditions have harmed and may continue to harm our business and Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate. We have employees in Finland, France, Germany, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Taiwan, Ukraine, and the U.S. Impact of COVID-19 on our Business The COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact our workforce and the operations of our customers and suppliers during 2022. In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related government measures, we implemented safety measures to protect our employees and contractors at our locations around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has not had a significant impact on the Company in 2023. Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from sales of precision timing solutions to distributors who in turn sell to our end customers. We also sell products directly to some of our end customers. Our sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders which may be cancelled, reduced, or rescheduled, with little or no notice. We recognize product revenue upon shipment when we satisfy our performance obligations as evidenced by the transfer of control of our products to customers. We measure revenue based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) Revenue $ 27,728 $ 79,418 $ (51,690 ) (65 %) $ 66,070 $ 149,671 $ (83,601 ) (56 %) Revenue decreased by $51.7 million, or 65.1%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in sales volume as well as decrease in average selling prices ("ASPs") of our products. Lower sales volume was driven by excess inventory buildup at many of our customers, including our historically largest end customer, distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers, and lower demand for our products due to macroeconomic conditions. Lower ASPs of our products was related to change in mix of the products we shipped. Revenue decreased by $83.6 million, or 56%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in sales volume partially offset by an increase in ASPs. Lower sales volume was driven by excess inventory buildup at many of our customers, including our historically largest end customer, distributors and their affiliates, partners, and contract manufacturers, and lower demand for our products due to macroeconomic conditions. Such decrease in revenue was partially offset by an increase in ASPs of our products that was related to change in mix of the products we shipped. Sales attributable to our historically largest end customer through multiple distributors accounted for 16% and 14% of our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and 9% and 16% of our revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022. Our end customers predominantly purchase our products from distributors. Our top three customers by revenue, which are distributors, together accounted for approximately 45% and 40% of our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and 44% and 41% of our revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenue attributable to our largest ten end customers accounted for 42% and 70% of our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and 40% and 69% of our revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 18 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists of wafers acquired from third-party foundries, assembly, packaging, and test cost of our products paid to third-party contract manufacturers, and personnel and other costs associated with our manufacturing operations. Cost of revenue also includes depreciation of production equipment, inventory write-downs, amortization of internally developed software, shipping and handling costs, and allocation of overhead and facility costs. We also include credits for rebates received from foundries to cost of revenue. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Cost of Revenue $ 12,290 $ 26,744 $ (14,454 ) (54 %) $ 27,592 $ 51,763 $ (24,171 ) (47 %) Gross Profit 15,438 52,674 (37,236 ) (71 %) 38,478 97,908 (59,430 ) (61 %) Gross Margin 56 % 66 % 58 % 65 % Gross profit decreased by $37.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross profit decreased $38.9 million mainly from lower revenue. This decrease was partially offset by lower other manufacturing and overhead costs of $1.7 million. Gross profit decreased by $59.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. Gross profit decreased $62.1 million mainly from lower revenue. This decrease was partially offset by lower other manufacturing and overhead costs of $2.7 million. Gross margin was lower by 10% in the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. Of the decrease, 8% was mainly due to lower sales causing an unfavorable absorption of our manufacturing overhead costs and the additional 2% decline was contributed by lower ASP for the quarter. Gross margin was lower by 7% in the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease was mainly due to lower sales causing an unfavorable absorption of our manufacturing overhead costs. Gross margin may fluctuate from time to time due to a variety of factors. For additional discussion please see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report, especially the risk factor titled Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which could negatively impact our results of operations and our financial condition. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of our operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and commissions. Our operating expenses also include consulting costs, allocated costs of facilities, information technology and depreciation. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Operating Expenses: Research and development $ 26,567 $ 22,017 $ 4,550 21 % $ 51,024 $ 42,612 $ 8,412 20 % Selling, general and administrative 21,276 18,376 2,900 16 % 42,009 36,954 5,055 14 % Total operating expenses $ 47,843 $ 40,393 $ 7,450 18 % $ 93,033 $ 79,566 $ 13,467 17 % Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused on the design and development of precision timing solutions. Our research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, which include stock-based compensation, pre-production engineering mask costs, software license and intellectual property expenses, design tools and prototype-related expenses, facility costs, supplies, professional and consulting fees, and allocated overhead costs, which may be offset by non-recurring engineering contra-expenses recorded in certain periods. There is no assurance that we will have non-recurring engineering contra-expense from period to period. We expense research and development costs as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products and services is important for our future growth and acquisition of new customers and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. However, we expect our research and development expenses to fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Research and development expense increased by $4.6 million, or 21%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $5.0 million, a decrease in 19 non-recurring engineering contra-expense recognized of $2.2 million and an increase in depreciation and amortization of lab equipment and licenses of $0.8 million, and offset by lower engineering spend towards ongoing new product development of $3.8 million. Research and development expense increased by $8.4 million, or 20%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $7.4 million, a decrease in non-recurring engineering contra-expense recognized of $3.0 million, higher personnel costs of $2.3 million due to increased headcount and an increase in depreciation and amortization of lab equipment and licenses of $1.8 million, and offset by lower engineering spend towards ongoing new product development of $6.1 million. There is no guarantee we will enter into a non-recurring engineering arrangement or recognize such contra-expense in any future period. Based on our current contracts, we expect the non-recurring engineering contra-expense to decline in future periods. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expense consists of personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, professional and consulting fees, accounting and audit fees, legal costs, field application engineering support, travel costs, advertising expenses and allocated overhead costs. We expect sales, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our personnel and grow our operations, although it may fluctuate as a percentage of revenue from period to period depending on the timing of these expenses. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $2.9 million, or 16%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $4.0 million, partially offset by reduction in sales commission payouts by $0.9 million due to lower sales. Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $5.1 million, or 14%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense of $5.8 million, higher personnel costs of $0.8 million due to increased headcount, offset by reduction in sales commission payouts by $1.5 million due to lower sales. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income on short term investments. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Interest Income $ 6,667 $ 803 $ 5,864 730% $ 12,297 $ 803 $ 11,494 1431% Interest income increased by $5.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in interest rates in the current year. Interest income increased by $11.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year as the Company started investing its cash in treasury bills only in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022 and received interest payments at higher interest rates from the treasury bills during the six months ended June 30, 2023. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income on our cash balances and foreign exchange gains and losses. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Other income (expense), net $ (161 ) $ (173 ) $ 12 (7%) $ (61 ) $ (26 ) $ (35 ) 135% Other income (expense), net, was essentially flat for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year and primarily related to net unrealized loss on foreign exchange rates due to increased activities in our foreign subsidiaries and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as the realization of the full amount of our deferred tax asset is uncertain, including NOL carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance until realization of the deferred tax assets becomes more likely than not. Three Months Ended June 30, Change Six Months Ended June 30, Change 2023 2022 $ % 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands except percentage) (in thousands except percentage) Income tax expense $ (23 ) $ (52 ) $ 29 (56%) $ (93 ) $ (120 ) $ 27 (23%) 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $30.4 million and $34.6 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 we also held $544.3 millionand $529.5 million of short-term investments, respectively in held-to-maturity securities which consisted of treasury bills. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations to support growth. In May 2022, we entered into a Sales Agreement ("Sales Agreement") with Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated ("Stifel"), under which we may offer and sell from time to time at our sole discretion, up to an aggregate of 800,000 shares of our common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, through Stifel as our sales agent. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we sold 200,000 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement at a weighted average price of $109.88 per share resulting in net proceeds to us of $21.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and deferred offering costs. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the shares of common stock offered and sold to primarily replenish funds expended to satisfy anticipated tax withholding and remittance obligations related to the net settlement upon vesting of restricted stock unit awards (RSU) granted to employees under the equity incentive plans. Our purchase obligations primarily include design and simulation licenses and non-cancelable purchase commitments from agreements with our contract manufacturers as well as a multi-year purchase agreement with commitment to purchase minimum quantities of MEMS wafers and research and development, tooling and sample cost under the agreement. For information about our contractual obligations refer to "Note 5 - Lease" of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ending June 30, 2023 and "Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2022. We expect to continue our investing activities, primarily in the purchase of property and equipment and capitalized software, to support research and development, sales and marketing, product support, and administrative staff. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and our short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot provide any assurance that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, it would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The table below summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,676 $ 35,337 Net cash used in investing activities (8,925 ) (17,645 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,021 3,138 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (4,228 ) $ 20,830 Operating Activities In the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities of $2.7 million was primarily due to a net loss of $42.4 million offset by non-cash expenses of $35.4 million and a change in operating assets and liabilities of $9.7 million. Non-cash expenses were mainly related to depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and interest on held to maturity investments. The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in cash provided primarily due to lower accounts receivable due to timing of payments and lower revenue partially offset by an increase in inventories as we built our wafer inventory levels, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets due to timing of payments, and lower accounts payable and accrued expenses primarily due to timing of accrued payroll and related benefit payments. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchase and maturities of short-term investments and capital expenditures for property and equipment purchases. Our short-term investments were primarily in treasury bills to earn interest. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment have primarily been for general business purposes, including machinery and equipment, leasehold improvements, acquired software, computer equipment used internally, and production masks to manufacture our products. In the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $8.9 million. We paid $536.6 million to purchase short-term investments in held-to-maturity securities. We paid $6.1 million largely to purchase test and other manufacturing equipment and intangibles to support the general business operations. All such payments were offset by $533.8 million proceeds from the maturity of held to maturity investments. 21 Financing Activities Our financing activities have primarily consisted of proceeds from issuance of shares and withholding of taxes on restricted stock units. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, we sold 200,000 shares of our common stock under the Sales Agreement resulting in net proceeds to us of $21.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $0.5 million and deferred offering costs of $0.2 million. The net proceeds from the Sales Agreement were offset by tax withholdings paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement of $19.3 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements and accompanying disclosures requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has defined a companys critical accounting estimates as estimates that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified our most critical accounting estimates to be as follows: (1) revenue recognition; (2) inventory; (3) stock-based compensation; and (4) accounting for income taxes. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information not presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates if the assumptions, judgments, and conditions upon which they are based turn out to be inaccurate. Management believes that there have been no significant changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023.