Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management teams expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Factors that might cause or contribute to such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth in the Risk Factors section of the Companys registration statement and prospectus for the Companys offering filed with the SEC. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. 17 Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on January 15, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (a Business Combination). We consummated our Public Offering (as defined below) on March 10, 2020 and are currently in the process of locating suitable targets for our business combination. We intend to use the cash proceeds from our Public Offering and the Private Placement described below as well as additional issuances, if any, of our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt to complete the Business Combination. We expect to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial Business Combination. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments On September 1, 2020, we entered into the Merger Agreement. The merger was unanimously approved by our board of directors on September 1, 2020. If the Merger Agreement is approved by our and Skillzs stockholders, and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are consummated, Merger Sub will merge with and into Skillz with Skillz surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Business Combination). In addition, in connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, we will be renamed Skillz, Inc. and is referred to herein as New Skillz as of the time following such change of name. Under the Merger Agreement, we have agreed to acquire all of the outstanding equity interests of Skillz for approximately $3.5 billion in aggregate consideration to be paid at the effective time of the Business Combination. Such consideration will be paid through cash and/or stock in New Skillz as follows: each stockholder of Skillz holding shares of common stock of Skillz immediately prior to the effective time of the Business Combination can either elect to receive, with respect to each share of common stock of Skillz it holds, (x) an amount of cash or (y) shares of common stock of New Skillz, in the case of each of clauses (x) and (y) above, calculated based on the per share merger consideration value formula as set forth in the Merger Agreement and, in the case of the shares of common stock of New Skillz, calculated based on a price of $10 per share (the Closing Price). If such stockholder fails to make such election within the required time, it will be deemed to have made an election to receive stock consideration. The shares of common stock of New Skillz to be received by each stockholder of Skillz that elects to receive stock consideration will be as follows: (A) stockholders other than the Founder and his controlled affiliates will receive publicly listed shares of Class A common stock, and (B) the Founder and his controlled affiliates will receive shares of Class B common stock, in each case as set forth in the Merger Agreement. The cash consideration (the Cash Consideration) payable to all Skillz stockholders will be an amount of cash equal to the lesser of (i) (a) the funds remaining in the Companys trust account after giving effect to redemptions of public shares, if any, and payment of Skillzs and the Companys outstanding transaction expenses as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, plus (b) the funds received by us in connection with the equity financing relating to the Subscription Agreements (as described below), plus (c) the amount of cash and cash equivalents of Skillz determined in accordance with GAAP as of 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time on the day immediately preceding consummation of the Business Combination, minus (d) $250,000,000, and (ii) solely to the extent reasonably necessary, based on the written advice of ours nationally recognized tax counsel, to qualify the Business Combination either as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a transfer under Section 351(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 , such amount designated by Skillz to us not less than three (3) days prior to consummation of the Business Combination. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We have neither engaged in any significant business operations nor generated any revenues to date. All activities to date relate to the Companys formation and the Public Offering. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that will be held in the Trust Account (as defined below). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses as we locate a suitable Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $685,100. The loss for the three months ended September 30, 2020 relates to earnings on the Trust Account assets offset by general and administrative costs, estimated taxes, and management fees for administrative services. For the period from January 15, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $482,508. The loss for the period from January 15, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020 relates to earnings on the Trust Account assets offset by general and administrative costs, management fees for administrative services and estimated taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 10, 2020 we consummated a $690,000,000 initial public offering (the Public Offering) consisting of 69,000,000 units at a price of $10.00 per unit (Unit). Each Unit consists of one share of the Companys Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value (the Class A Common Stock) and one-fourth of one redeemable warrant (each, a Public Warrant). Simultaneously, with the closing of the Public Offering, we consummated an approximately $15,050,000 private placement (Private Placement) of an aggregate of 10,033,333 warrants (Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per warrant. Upon closing of the Public Offering and Private Placement on March 10, 2020, $690,000,000 in proceeds (including $24,150,000 of deferred underwriting commissions) from the Public Offering and Private Placement was placed in a U.S.-based trust account maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee (the Trust Account). The remaining $15,280,885 held outside of trust was used to pay underwriting commissions of $13,800,000 and deferred offering and formation costs. 18 As of September 30, 2020, we had cash balance of $255,827 as well as cash and investments held in trust of $690,039,470. Our working capital needs will be satisfied through the funds, held outside of the Trust Account, from the Public Offering. Interest on funds held in the Trust Account may be used to fund our working capital requirements (subject to an aggregate limit of $1,000,000) and/or to pay taxes. Further, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of the Companys officers and directors intend, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. The terms of such loans have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. During the period ended September 30, 2020, our Sponsor loaned an aggregate of $230,000 to us. As of September 30, 2020, we had $230,000 outstanding in Working Capital Loans. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Redeemable Shares All of the 69,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock included in the Units sold as part of the Public Offering contain a redemption feature as described in the prospectus for the Public Offering. In accordance with FASB ASC 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity, redemption provisions not solely within the control of the Company require the security to be classified outside of permanent equity. The Charter provides a minimum net tangible asset threshold of $5,000,001. The Company recognizes changes in redemption value immediately as they occur and will adjust the carrying value of the security at the end of each reporting period. Increases or decreases in the carrying amount of redeemable shares will be affected by charges against additional paid-in capital. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangement as of September 30, 2020. Contractual Obligation As of September 30, 2020, we did not have any long-term debt, capital or operating lease obligations. We entered into an administrative services agreement in which the Company will pay the Sponsor for office space and secretarial and administrative services provided to members of the Companys management team, in an amount not to exceed $15,000 per month.