Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. If we determine that we can no longer calculate any of our key metrics with a sufficient degree of accuracy, and we cannot find an adequate replacement for the metric, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. In addition, if advertisers, platform partners or investors do not perceive end-user metrics to be accurate representations of the end-user base or end-user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in end-user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which in either case could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Our workforce and operations have grown substantially since our inception. If we are unable to effectively manage future expected growth, our financial performance and future prospects will be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, which has increased the complexity of our operations and placed significant demands on our management, personnel, systems, and internal controls. Continued expansion may strain our resources, and our existing infrastructure, procedures, and controls may not be sufficient to support future growth. Failure to effectively manage operational scaling, upgrade our technology and financial systems, or hire and retain qualified personnel could result in inefficiencies, service disruptions, or loss of users, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, maintaining an engaged, diverse, and inclusive workforce is critical to our innovation and long-term success. Misalignment between organizational values and employee expectations, or failure to effectively manage evolving social, cultural, or diversity priorities, could harm morale, productivity, and retention, and damage our reputation. As our organizational structure becomes more complex, we strive to implement consistent policies and controls across regions. If we fail to do so, or if future restructuring or reductions in force produce unintended attrition, lower morale, or reputational harm, our ability to attract and retain talent and achieve operational objectives could be materially and adversely affected. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS The growth and success of our business will depend on the performance of the current and future employees of Skillz, including certain key employees. Recruitment and retention of these individuals is vital to growing our business and meeting our business plans. The loss of any of our key executives or other key employees could harm our business. Our ability to compete and grow depends heavily on the efforts and talents of our employees and senior management, including our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Paradise. The loss of Mr. Paradise or other key members of our leadership team could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not maintain key-person insurance or long-term employment agreements with our senior executives. We have recently experienced several management transitions, including changes in our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, Corporate Controller, and General Counsel roles, and we continue to recruit for certain key positions. Executive transitions and related succession activities may result in operational disruption, loss of institutional knowledge, and difficulty attracting or retaining other key personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain highly skilled employees in a competitive labor market, particularly engineers, product managers, and data scientists. Ongoing turnover, competition for talent, and market uncertainty have placed significant demands on our organization. If we fail to attract or retain qualified personnel, our ability to execute our strategic and operational objectives could be impaired. Additionally, volatility in our stock price or changes in equity compensation practices may reduce the effectiveness of our incentive programs and increase employee attrition. Any failure to effectively recruit, retain, and motivate key executives and employees could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We have been and continue to be party to litigation and we may be subject to future litigation in the operation of our business. An adverse outcome in one or more proceedings could adversely affect our business. We are, and in the future may again become, involved in claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings with various plaintiffs arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to intellectual property claims, privacy, data protection or law enforcement matters, tax matters, labor and employment claims, commercial and acquisition-related claims and other matters. Such claims, suits, government investigations, and proceedings are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of their outcomes, such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us in light of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties, or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain features, functionalities, products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices, products or technologies, which could in the future materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we are, and in the future, may again become, involved in claims, suits and proceedings with various parties. As a result of such litigation, we are, and int the future may again become party to various settlement agreements pursuant to which the parties agree we have the right to recover cash settlement amounts. However, we may not be able to collect such settlement amounts on a timely basis or at all, especially during periods of macroeconomic uncertainty. Difficulties in enforcing settlement agreements and collecting settlement amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims. We believe that we maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. Moreover, any loss incurred could exceed policy limits and policy payments made to us may not be made on a timely basis. Such losses could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley), may strain our resources and divert managements attention, the increases in legal, accounting and compliance expenses may be greater than we anticipate, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy these obligations. In December 2020, we became a public company, and as such, have incurred, and will continue to incur (and particularly now that we are no longer an emerging growth company), significant legal, accounting and other expenses that Skillz did not incur as a private company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and are required to comply with the applicable requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the listing standards of the NYSE, including changes in corporate governance practices and the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Compliance with these rules and regulations can be burdensome. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. In addition, these rules and regulations have and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We have incurred and expect to incur in the future significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward the remediation of material weaknesses. We will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, and engage outside consultants, all with appropriate experience and technical accounting knowledge and maintain an internal audit function, which will increase our operating expenses. Further, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We must invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and such investment may result in further increased general and administrative expenses. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our reported financial results may be affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Any difficulties in implementing these pronouncements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. We may require additional capital to support our growth plans, and such capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. This could hamper our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new games and features or enhance our existing games, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we did not repurchase any of our outstanding 2021 Senior Secured Notes. However, we repurchased $19.3 million of our Class A common stock, including $6.9 million spent to repurchase 979,848 shares of our Class A common stock at $7.00 per share from Wildcat Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates, which together previously held greater than 5% (approximately 6%) of our Class A common stock. These significant outflows may affect our future cash flows negatively. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financing to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Our debt financing (see Risks Related to Our Indebtedness) involves offering additional security interests and undertaking restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we seek to access additional capital or increase our borrowing, there can be no assurance that financing and credit may be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our investment portfolio and our ability to access cash and cash equivalents may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets. Our cash equivalent and investment portfolio is invested with a goal of preserving our access to capital, and generally consists of money market funds, corporate debt securities, U.S. government and government agency debt securities, mutual funds, certificates of deposit and time deposits. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards, permissible allocations of certain sectors and limits our exposure to specific investment types, and we believe our current investment portfolio has a low risk of material impairment. However, volatility in the global financial markets can negatively impact the value of our investments. Investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. Lastly, changing circumstances and market conditions, some of which may be beyond our control, could impair our ability to access our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments and to timely pay key vendors and others. For example, in 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was placed into receivership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which resulted in all funds held at SVB, including our funds held at SVB, being temporarily inaccessible by SVBs customers. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $1.9 million of cash remaining with SVB, which were able to withdraw in March 2025. If other banks and financial institutions with whom we have banking relationships enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, we may be unable to access, and we may lose, some or all of our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments to the extent those funds are not insured or otherwise protected by the FDIC. Global climate change, the occurrence of an earthquake, other natural disaster or other significant business interruption at or near any of our facilities could cause damage to our facilities and equipment and interfere with our operations. There is evidence of global climate change, which could present risks to our future operations from natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires or flooding. Such extreme weather conditions could pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt operation of our third-party developer partners, service providers and our game players and may increase operational costs. Any new climate-related rules, as well as other changes the government might implement, could impose significant new burdens on us and our third-party developer partners and service providers, with significant costs and operational impacts, and adversely impact our ability to maintain our platform and operate successfully. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The trading price of our Class A common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; changes in projected operational and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our offerings; the commencement or conclusion of legal proceedings that involve us; actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; announcements of new offerings by us or our competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital-raising activities or commitments; additions or departures of key personnel; issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; the use by investors or analysts of third-party data regarding our business that may not reflect our financial performance; fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; sales of our Class A common stock; 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS repurchases of our Class A common stock, including both repurchases as part of publicly announced programs and outside of such programs; share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; impact of the recent elections in the United States; and general economic and global market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets frequently experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, elections, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of such fluctuations, you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We are currently the target of this type of litigation, and may continue to be such a target in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention from other business concerns. Furthermore, the trading price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by third-parties trying to drive down the market price. Short sellers and others, some of whom post anonymously on social media, may be positioned to profit if our stock declines and their activities can negatively affect our stock price. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Additionally, on August 18, 2023, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase, at any time or from time to time but for a period no longer than one year from the date of authorization, shares of the Companys Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock), having an aggregate purchase price not to exceed $65.0 million (a) on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) or any other national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then traded, (b) pursuant to a plan effected pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 (a Rule 10b5-1 Plan) promulgated under the Exchange Act, and/or (c) pursuant to accelerated share repurchase arrangements, tender offers, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise (the Share Repurchase Program). On December 5, 2024, the Board ratified the Companys authority to repurchase up to $41.1 million remaining under the Companys legacy repurchase program and extended the expiration date until otherwise suspended, terminated or modified at any time for any reason by the Board. The result of this program has an indeterminable impact on our stock price and may not enhance long-term stockholder value. The shares which have been repurchased under the Rule 10b5-1 Plan are held as Treasury Stock and, as such, are available for future reissue. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE. The NYSE considers a listed company to be out of compliance with its continued listing standards if, among other things, the average closing price of the companys stock is less than $1.00 over a period of 30 consecutive trading days. If the listed company does not regain compliance within the NYSEs six-month cure period, it will be subject to delisting. Our Class A common stock could also be delisted if (i) our average market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period is less than $15 million, or (ii) our Class A common stock trades at an abnormally low price. In either case, our Class A common stock would be suspended from trading on the NYSE immediately, and the NYSE would begin the process to delist our Class A common stock, subject to our right to appeal under NYSE rules. Additionally, the NYSE considers a listed company to be out of compliance with its continued listing standards if the companys average global market capitalization over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $50.0 million and, at the same time, the companys stockholders equity is less than $50.0 million. If any of these were to occur, there is no assurance that any appeal we undertake in these or other circumstances would be successful, nor is there any assurance that we will remain in compliance with the other NYSE continued listing standards. If we fail to satisfy the NYSEs continued listing standards, our Class A common stock will be subject to delisting. Delisting from the NYSE would likely have a negative effect on the liquidity and market price of our Class A common stock, reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our Class A common stock, limit or reduce the amount of analyst coverage we receive, and impair your ability to sell or purchase our Class A common stock when you wish to do so. In addition, a delisting from the NYSE might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. Additionally, if we were delisted from the NYSE and we are not able to list our Class A common stock on another national exchange we will not be eligible to use Form S-3 registration statements, which would delay our ability to raise funds in the future, limit the type of offerings of Class A common stock we could undertake, and increase the expenses of any offering. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the event of a delisting of our Class A common stock, we can provide no assurance that any action taken by us to restore compliance with listing requirements would allow our securities to become listed again, stabilize the market price or improve the liquidity of our Class A common stock, prevent our Class A common stock from dropping below the NYSE minimum share price requirement or prevent future non-compliance with the NYSEs listing standards. Additionally, if our Class A common stock is not listed on, or becomes delisted from, the NYSE for any reason, and is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities that is not a national securities exchange, the liquidity and price of our Class A common stock may be more limited than if we were quoted or listed on the NYSE or another national securities exchange. You may be unable to sell your Class A common stock unless a market can be established or sustained. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE and our stockholders do not have certain corporate governance protections that are available to stockholders of companies that are not controlled companies. So long as more than 50% of the voting power for the election of our directors is held by an individual, a group or another company, we will qualify as a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. As of December 31, 2024, Mr. Paradise controlled 84% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are presently a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards and will not be subject to the requirements that would otherwise require us to have: (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Boards selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors. Mr. Paradises equity interest in us may be diluted due to future equity issuances by us or his own actions in selling shares of Class B common stock in each case, which could result in a loss of the controlled company exemption under the NYSE listing rules. We would then be required to comply with corporate governance protections of the NYSE listing requirements described above. We cannot predict the impact our dual class structure may have on our stock price of our Class A common stock; the dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with our Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, which will limit an investors ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. Our dual class common stock structure concentrates significant voting power with our Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, Andrew Paradise, which limits other stockholders ability to influence key corporate decisions. Shares of our Class B common stock carry 20 votes per share, compared to one vote per share for our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2024, Mr. Paradise held all outstanding Class B shares, representing approximately 84% of the total voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis. As a result, Mr. Paradise can control the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors, amendments to our charter documents, and approval of mergers or other significant transactions. His interests may not always align with those of other stockholders, and this concentration of control could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control, limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium in connection with a sale of the Company, or otherwise affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, our dual class structure may result in a lower or more volatile trading price for our Class A common stock or negative investor perception. Certain stock indices exclude companies with multi-class share structures, and funds tracking those indices may be unable to invest in our stock, which could further reduce demand and adversely affect our Class A share price. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Delaware law and provisions in our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (our Charter) and Amended and Restated Bylaws (our Bylaws) could make a takeover proposal more difficult. Our organizational documents are governed by Delaware law. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our Charter and Bylaws could discourage, delay, defer or prevent a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of Class A common stock held by our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock; stockholder action by written consent only until the first time when Mr. Paradise ceases to beneficially own a majority of the voting power of our capital stock; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; amendment of certain provisions of the organizational documents only by the affirmative vote of (i) a majority of the voting power of our capital stock so long as Mr. Paradise beneficially owns shares representing a majority of the voting power of our capital stock and (ii) at least two-thirds of the voting power of the capital stock from and after the time that Mr. Paradise ceases to beneficially own shares representing a majority of the voting power of our voting stock; and a dual-class common stock structure with 20 votes per share of our Class B common stock, the result of which is that Mr. Paradise has the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even though Mr. Paradise owns less than a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. These anti-takeover provisions as well as certain provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third partys offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. If prospective takeovers are not consummated for any reason, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions that our stockholders desire. Our Charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings and the federal district courts as the sole and exclusive forum for other types of actions and proceedings, in each case, that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain what such stockholders believe to be a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our Charter provides that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of us; (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of ours to us or our stockholders; (iii) action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or our Charter or Bylaws; (iv) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of any provisions in our Charter or Bylaws; or (v) action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer of ours governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be exclusively brought in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, the federal district court of the State of Delaware. Subject to the foregoing, the federal district courts of the United States are the exclusive forum for the resolution of any action, suit or proceeding asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act. The exclusive forum provision does not apply to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring an interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the forum provisions in our Charter. These choice-of-forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that he, she or it believes to be favorable for disputes with us or our or directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. We note that there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce these provisions and that investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for state and federal courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our Charter inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and can result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and Board. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to execute our business strategy. As of December 31, 2024, the aggregate indebtedness under our senior secured notes was $129.7 million. We expect to maintain significant levels of indebtedness going forward. Our indebtedness could have important consequences including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, and any failure to comply with the obligations under our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing our senior secured notes or agreements governing future indebtedness; increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy and our industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness; making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes; and potentially requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our other business needs. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the U.S. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Our credit rating as of December 31, 2024 was CCC+ from S&P Global Ratings. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and other factors could also be considered by the rating agencies. Any downgrade in our credit rating or the ratings of our indebtedness, or adverse conditions in the debt capital markets, could: adversely affect the trading price of, or market for, our existing or future debt; increase interest expense under future debt; increase the cost of, and adversely affect our ability to refinance, our existing debt; and adversely affect our ability to raise additional debt. A debt rating is not a recommendation by the rating agency to buy, sell, or hold and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The instruments governing our indebtedness impose certain restrictions on our business, and future such instruments could impose new restrictions on our business. The instruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing our senior secured notes, contain certain covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business, to plan for, or react to, changes in the market conditions or our capital needs and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to do the following under certain circumstances: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain disqualified or preferred stock; pay dividends or make other distributions on, or redeem or purchase any equity interests or make other restricted payments; make certain acquisitions or investments; 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS create or incur liens; transfer or sell assets; incur restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions from our restricted subsidiaries; alter the business that we conduct; enter into transactions with affiliates; conduct buy-back or share repurchase programs; and consummate a merger or consolidation or sell, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all our assets. In addition, the instruments contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. As of November 3, 2025, we were not in compliance with certain of the covenants in that certain Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2021, between the Company, each of the guarantors party thereto and the Trustee (Indenture) as a result of delays in filing our annual financial statements on this Form 10-K and the interim financial statements on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2025 and June 30, 2025. As of result of these delays, the Company fell out of compliance with the reporting covenants under the Indenture governing its senior secured notes that require that the Company provide to the trustee and holders of the senior secured notes all quarterly and annual reports required to be filed with the SEC within time periods specified under the Exchange Act. The filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will help us restore compliance with a portion of the requirement, and the Company is further taking the necessary steps to file its delayed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2025 and June 30, 2025 as soon as practicable, in order to regain compliance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture. However, we may not be able to comply with these covenants for any future delays in our periodic reports with the SEC. Such future delays could lead to a default under our instruments governing our indebtedness. In addition, certain holders of our senior secured notes could exercise their rights, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to service or repay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, and to refinance our debt, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur and to make necessary capital expenditures. Our ability to refinance our outstanding indebtedness or future indebtedness will depend on market conditions and our financial position at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms when needed, which could result in a default on our indebtedness. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY We take a comprehensive approach to cybersecurity risk management. While securing our customers and stakeholders data is a top priority, like many companies with a public presence, we are subject to human-targeted and AI-assisted cyberattacks. Our board of directors (the "Board") and our management are involved in the oversight of our risk management program, of which cybersecurity represents an important component. As described in more detail below, we have established policies, standards, processes and practices designed to assess, identify, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats. We have devoted significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures in an effort to meet regulatory requirements and customer expectations, and we intend to continue to make significant investments in our data and cybersecurity infrastructure. There can be no guarantee that our policies and procedures will be effective, as cyber criminals are becoming more sophisticated and effective every day and increasingly targeting enterprise software companies. Although our Risk Factors include further detail about the material cybersecurity risks we face, we believe that risks from prior cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, have not materially affected our business to date. We can provide no assurance that there will not be incidents in the future or that such incidents will not materially affect us, including 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we are not aware of any material cybersecurity incidents that had a significant impact on our operations or financial condition.For more information on our cybersecurity related risks see the risk factor entitled We rely on information technology (IT) and other systems and platforms, and any failures, errors, defects or disruptions in our or our vendors or other partners systems or platforms could diminish our brand and reputation, subject us to liability, disrupt our business, affect our ability to scale our technical infrastructure and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and growth prospects in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, above. Risk Management and Strategy Our policies, standards, processes and practices designed to assess, identify, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats are integrated into our overall risk management program. These policies, standards, processes, and practices are based on maintaining a security-in-depth methodology as informed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (IST) Cybersecurity Framework, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/IEC 27001 and other applicable industry standards. Key controls include: (a) Zero trust network architecture for employee privileged and non-privileged application access (b) Mandatory employee security awareness training and phishing simulations, plus follow-up remedial training if necessary,(c)Periodic third-party network and host vulnerability scans and (d) 24/7 Security Operations Center monitoring all corporate endpoints which escalates to senior engineering resources as necessary for incident response and remediation. We also maintain a cyber insurance policy to mitigate financial exposure from any security incidents. Our cybersecurity program in particular focuses on the following key areas: Collaboration Our cybersecurity risks are identified and addressed through a comprehensive, cross-functional approach. Key security, risk, and compliance stakeholders meet periodically to develop strategies designed to preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Company and customer information, identify, prevent and mitigate cybersecurity threats, and to attempt to effectively respond to cybersecurity incidents. We maintain