ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Forward-Looking Statements The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Skillz Inc. (for purposes of this section, Skillz, we, us and our). MD&A is provided as a supplement and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview We operate a marketplace that connects the world through competition, serving both developers and users. Our platform enables fair, fun and competitive gaming experiences and the trust we foster with users is the foundation upon which our community is built. We believe our marketplace benefits from a powerful network effect: compelling content attracts users to our platform, while the increasing size of our audience attracts more developers to create new interactive experiences on our platform. Skillz was founded in 2012 by Andrew Paradise and Casey Chafkin with the vision to make eSports accessible to everyone. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the platform had over 1.0 million monthly active users (MAUs) and hosted an average of over 2.8 million daily tournaments, including 0.61 million paid entry daily tournaments, offering over $65.1 million in prizes each month. Our culture is built upon a set of values established by our founders, aligning the Company and its employees in a common vision. Our seven values are: Honor; Mission; Collaboration; Productivity; Willingness; Frugality; and Balance. Our approach has focused on trust and fairness for users enabling game developers to focus on what they do best: build great content. Our technology capabilities are industry-leading and provide the tools necessary for developers to compete with the largest and most sophisticated mobile game developers in the world. Our easy-to-integrate software development kit (SDK) and developer console allow our developers to monitor, integrate and update their games seamlessly over the air. We ingest and analyze over 300 data points from each game play session, enhancing our data-driven algorithms and LiveOps systems. Moreover, we have developed a robust platform enabling fun, fair and meaningful competitive gameplay. Historically, our top games and related developers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue earned from the Skillz platform. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the games Solitaire Cube, 21 Blitz (each developed by Tether Studios, LLC (Tether)) and Blackout Bingo (developed by Big Run Studios Inc. (Big Run)) combined accounted for 70% and 71% of our revenue, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Tether accounted for 44% and 39% of our revenue, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Big Run accounted for 36% and 41% of our revenue, respectively. Our top titles rotate over time as more games generate success on the Skillz platform. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following supplemental financial information table summarizes key operating metrics for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. These metrics are utilized by management and the Board to evaluate the operating performance of the Company and are key factors that directly impact the Companys revenue, costs and liquidity. Accordingly, we believe that they provide helpful supplemental information to investors in evaluating our operating results. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Gross marketplace volume (GMV) (000s)(1) $ 963,580 $ 1,642,282 Paying monthly active users (PMAUs) (000s)(2) 179 386 Monthly active users (MAUs) (000s)(3) 1,045 2,105 Average GMV per paying monthly active user(4) $ 448.8 $ 354.4 Average GMV per monthly active user(5) $ 76.9 $ 65.0 Average revenue per paying monthly active user (ARPPU)(6) $ 70.0 $ 59.7 Average revenue per monthly active user (ARPU)(7) $ 11.9 $ 11.0 Paying MAU to MAU ratio 17 % 18 % Average end-user incentives, included as sales and marketing expense, per paying active user(8) 30.09 25.33 Average end-user incentives, included as sales and marketing expense, per playing active user(9) 5.15 4.65 (1) GMV or Gross Marketplace Volume means the total entry fees paid by users for contests hosted on Skillzs platform. Total entry fees include entry fees paid by end-users using cash deposits, prior winnings from end-users accounts that have not been withdrawn and end-user incentives used to enter paid entry fee contests. (2) Paying Monthly Active Users or PMAUs means the number of end-users who entered into a paid contest hosted on Skillzs platform at least once in a month, averaged over each month in the period. (3) Monthly Active Users or MAUs means the number of playing end-users who entered into a paid or free contest hosted on Skillzs platform at least once in a month, averaged over each month in the period. (4) Average GMV Per Paying Monthly Active User means the average GMV in a given month divided by Paying MAUs in that month, averaged over the period. (5) Average GMV Per Monthly Active User means the average GMV in a given month divided by MAUs in that month, averaged over the period. (6) Average Revenue Per Paying Monthly Active User or ARPPU means the average revenue in a given month divided by Paying MAUs in that month, averaged over the period and does not include a deduction for end-user incentives that are included in sales and marketing expense. (7) Average Revenue Per Monthly Active User or ARPU means the average revenue in a given month divided by MAUs in that month, averaged over the period and does not include a deduction for end-user incentives that are included in sales and marketing expense. (8) Amount reflects the average end-user incentives included in sales and marketing expense in a given month divided by PMAUs in that month, averaged over the period. (9) Amount reflects the average end-user incentives included in sales and marketing expense in a given month divided by MAUs in that month, averaged over the period. Engagement marketing is a sales and marketing expense representing rewards and awards that developers do not have a valid expectation of being offered to end-users to engage on the platform. Decreases in engagement marketing could result in lower revenue as paying users no longer receive those end-user incentives, which include Bonus Cash which can only be used to enter into paid contests. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS User acquisition (UA) marketing is a sales and marketing expense to acquire new paying users to the platform. Assuming acquisition cost per user is constant, decreases in UA marketing expense typically result in lower revenue as a result of having fewer new paying users. UA marketing spend during fiscal year 2023 was approximately $29.4 million, as compared to approximately $117.3 million in fiscal year 2022.The reduction in UA marketing and engagement marketing expenses during fiscal year 2022 and 2023 has resulted in a substantial reduction in revenue and is expected to continue to result in a reduction in revenue. We are currently unable to reasonably estimate the quantitative impact, or range of impact, that reductions in UA marketing and engagement marketing will have on forward-looking revenue as a result of the number of interrelated factors impacting revenue, including, but not limited to, retention of existing users on the platform, ARPPU, efficacy of various engagement marketing programs on existing users, elasticity of the digital advertising supply curve, and impact of varying levels of player liquidity on the existing user ecosystem. Over the course of 2022 and 2023, our focus was on driving higher efficiency from our marketing investment by (1) reducing spend on low-return engagement marketing programs, which we expect will result in lower engagement marketing as a percentage of revenue and (2) driving UA efficiency by optimizing spend across networks, and driving higher organic traffic. To the extent we reduce engagement marketing spend, we expect to reduce our Bonus Cash end-user incentives in proportion to such overall engagement marketing reduction. Our Financial Model Skillzs financial model aligns the interests of gamers and developers, driving value for our stockholders. By monetizing through competition, our system eliminates friction that exists in traditional monetization models between the developer and the gamer. The more gamers enjoy our platform, the longer they play, creating more value for Skillz and our developers. By generating higher player to payor conversion, retention and engagement, we are able to monetize users at higher rates than what our developers would generate through advertisements or in-game purchases. Our platform allows users to participate in fair competition, while rewarding developers who create games that keep players engaged. We generate revenue by receiving a percentage of player entry fees in paid (cash or Bonus Cash) contests, after deducting end-user prizes (i.e., winnings from the competitions), end-user incentives accounted for as reduction of revenue and the profit share paid to developers (the Take Rate). GMV represents entry fees that may be paid using cash deposits, prior winnings (which includes Bonus Cash previously won and returned as winnings), and end-user incentives (which includes Bonus Cash that has been lost during the period). We offer incentives to end-users to drive traffic to the Skillz platform. End-user incentives that are offered on behalf of game developers, such as Ticketz (which can be redeemed for Bonus Cash) and initial deposit Bonus Cash, are accounted for as a reduction of revenue. End-user incentives for which game developers do not have a valid expectation of being offered to end-users to engage on the platform, such as limited-time Bonus Cash offers, are accounted for as a sales and marketing expense. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our consolidated financial statements for further information. The following table summarizes additional components of GMV, including average GMV per active user and average GMV per paying active user for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 As a percentage of GMV(%) Prior winnings (1) 81 % 81 % Cash deposits (2) 11 % 12 % End-user incentives (3) 8 % 7 % As components of average GMV per paying monthly active user ($) Prior winnings $ 364.1 $ 285.7 Cash deposits $ 52.9 $ 43.2 End-user incentives $ 31.8 $ 25.5 As components of average GMV per monthly active user ($) Prior winnings $ 62.4 $ 52.4 Cash deposits $ 9.1 $ 7.9 End-user incentives $ 5.5 $ 4.7 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS (1) Prior winnings include cash and Bonus Cash that are in the end-users account as a result of winnings from competitions. For the year ended December 31, 2023, prior winnings from cash and Bonus Cash were 83% and 17%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2022, prior winnings from cash and Bonus Cash were 92% and 8%, respectively. (2) Cash deposits represent currency deposits into the end-users Skillz account during the respective period. (3) End-user incentives are based on amounts recorded as a reduction of revenue or sales and marketing expense during the respective period. End-user incentives primarily consist of (i) Bonus Cash, (ii) Ticketz (which can be redeemed for Bonus Cash) and (iii) promotional offers. Bonus Cash relates to all Bonus Cash that has been lost during the period (i.e., when the related cost has been incurred by the Company). Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our consolidated financial statements for further information. Prizes include cash, Bonus Cash, physical merchandise and items sponsored by third-parties. Prizes for the year ended December 31, 2023 consisted of approximately 83% cash and 17% Bonus Cash. Prizes for the year ended December 31, 2022 consisted of approximately 92% cash and 8% Bonus Cash. Physical merchandise and items sponsored by third-parties were de minimis for the periods presented. The following are key elements of our financial model: The scale, growth and engagement of the users As we continue to acquire users, our ability to match comparable players, on both skill level and tournament template, in a fair and timely manner improves. Better matching leads to stronger engagement and the ability to create larger tournaments with more profitable take rates. This creates a stickier, more engaging, and continuously improving experience for our players, which in turn attracts more players to our platform, creating a positively reinforcing cycle leading to ever-improving gaming experiences. The scale, growth and partnership of our developers We have created a platform that drives economic success for our developers. Our end-to-end platform allows developers to focus on creating games by automating and optimizing integral parts of their businesses from user acquisition and monetization to game optimization. Our built-in payments, analytics, customer support, and live operations platform enables our developers to consistently learn, grow, earn and share in our success. Product-first philosophy and data science capabilities We have built a culture that puts product first, driving our impact with users and developers and then scaling marketing investment. In 2023, 38% of our salary costs were spent on product development. Our easy-to-integrate SDK contains over 200 features in a less than 16-MB package which allows for over-the-air upgrades. Our intuitive Developer Console dashboard enables our developers to rapidly integrate and monitor the performance of their games. Our LiveOps system enables us to manage and optimize the user experience across the thousands of games on our platform. We collect over 300 data points during each gameplay session to feed our big data assets which augment all elements of our platform. Our key data science technologies drive our player rating and matching, anti-cheat and anti-fraud, and user experience personalization engine. Our unit economics Our proprietary and highly scalable software platform produces revenue at a low direct cost (i.e. direct software and server costs), contributing to our gross margins. Once acquired, each user cohort contributes to revenue over its life such that at three months, approximately 20% of users in a cohort continue to be paying users and the balance of PMAUs have churned. Thereafter, our retention curve continues to flatten with a limited portion of users continuing to contribute to revenue in each cohort for subsequent years. A cohort is all the users acquired in the period presented. A user is considered part of a cohort based on the first time they make a deposit and enter a paid tournament. Once a user is considered part of a cohort, they are always counted in that cohort. Key Components of Results of Operations Revenue Skillz provides a service to the game developers aimed at improving the monetization of their game content. The monetization service provided by Skillz allows developers to offer multi-player competition to their end-users which increases end-user retention and engagement. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS By utilizing the Skillz monetization services, game developers can enhance the player experience by enabling them to compete in head-to-head matches, live tournaments, leagues, and charity tournaments and increase player retention through referral bonus programs, loyalty perks, on-system achievements and Bonus Cash. Skillz provides developers with a 3SDK that they can download and integrate with their existing games. The SDK serves as a data interface between Skillz and the game developers that enables Skillz to provide monetization services to the developer. Specifically, these monetization services include end-user registration services, player matching, fraud and fair play monitoring, and billing and settlement services. The SDK and Skillz monetization services provide the following key benefits to the developers: Streamlined game and tournament management allowing players to register with the developer to compete in games for prizes while earning Skillz loyalty perks; Fair play in each tournament via the Skillz suite of fairness tools, including skill-based player matching and fraud monitoring; Improved end-user retention by rewarding the most loyal players with Ticketz which can be redeemed in the Skillz virtual store and are earned in every match and can be redeemed for prizes or credits to be used towards future paid entry fee tournaments; Marketing campaigns through main-stream online advertising networks and social media platforms to drive end-user traffic to developers games within the Skillz ecosystem; Systematic calls to end-user action via push notifications to users with game results, promotional offers, and time-sensitive actions; and Process end-user payments, billings and settlements on behalf of the developer to enable players to connect their preferred payment method to deposit and enter into the game developers multi-player competitions for cash prizes. Generally, end-users are required to deposit funds into their Skillz account in order to be eligible to participate in games for prizes. As part of its monetization services, Skillz is responsible for processing all end-user payments, billings and settlements on behalf of the game developer, such that the game developer does not have to collect directly from or make payments directly to the end-users. When the end-users enter into cash games, the end-users pay an entry fee using cash deposits, prior winnings in the end-users accounts and end-user incentives (specifically Bonus Cash). Skillz is entitled to a revenue share based on total entry fees for paid competitions, regardless of how they are paid, net of end-user prizes (i.e., winnings from the competitions) and other costs to provide monetization services. Revenue related to Bonus Cash is recognized only once when the Bonus Cash is lost. Skillz does not recognize the cost of Bonus Cash when it is returned to the user who won the competition. Skillz typically withholds 16% to 20% of the total entry fees when distributing the prize money as a commission. That commission is shared between Skillz and the game developers; however, the game developers share is calculated solely based upon entry fees paid by net cash deposits received from end-users, adjusted for certain costs incurred by Skillz to provide monetization services. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists of variable costs. These include mainly (i) payment processing fees, (ii) customer support costs, (iii) direct software costs, (iv) amortization of internal use software and (v) server costs. We incur payment processing costs on user deposits. We also incur costs directly related to servicing end-user support tickets on behalf of the game developer that are logged by users directly within the Skillz SDK. These support costs include an allocation of the facilities expense, such as rent, maintenance and utilities costs according to headcount, needed to service these tickets. We use a third party as our cloud computing service; we incur server and software costs as a direct result of running our SDK in our developers games. We also incur costs related to the amortization of intangible assets which include developed technology. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of software development costs, composed mainly of product and platform development, server and software costs that support research and development activities, and to a lesser extent, allocation of rent, maintenance and utilities costs according to headcount. Personnel related expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. We expect research and development expenses will fluctuate both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the future. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of direct advertising costs, engagement marketing expenses that are not recorded as a reduction of revenue, UA marketing expenses and amortization of intangible assets which include customer relationships. Sales and marketing expenses also include allocations of rent, maintenance and utilities costs which are allocated according to headcount. Personnel related expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. We expect sales and marketing expenses will fluctuate both in terms of absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the future. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses for our corporate, executive, finance, human resources and other administrative functions, expenses for outside professional services, and an allocation for rent, maintenance and utilities costs which are allocated according to headcount. Personnel related expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include expenses related to a loss contingency accrual (for pending legal matters). We expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease for the foreseeable future as we reposition the Company for profitability. We do not anticipate that we will grow headcount significantly and expect to reduce certain general and administrative expenses including professional service expenses, investor relations activities, and other administrative services. Results of Operations Consolidated results should be read in conjunction with segment results discussed below and the segment information provided in Note 17, Segment Reporting to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Comparison for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2023 to 2022 Change Increase/(Decrease) 2023 2022 $ % Revenue $ 152,079 $ 269,709 $ (117,630) (44) % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 15,379 30,718 (15,339) (50) % Research and development 28,148 52,265 (24,117) (46) % Sales and marketing 122,855 277,014 (154,159) (56) % General and administrative 96,654 163,018 (66,364) (41) % Impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets 3,335 168,051 (164,716) (98) % Total costs and expenses 266,371 691,066 (424,695) (61) % Loss from operations (114,292) (421,357) 307,065 (73) % Gain on extinguishment of debt 15,205 2,553 12,652 496 % Interest expense, net (2,852) (26,545) 23,693 (89) % Change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities 278 6,004 (5,726) (95) % Other income, net 540 125 415 332 % Loss before income taxes (101,121) (439,220) 338,099 (77) % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 239 (345) 584 (169) % Net loss $ (101,360) $ (438,875) 337,515 (77) % 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue 2023 Compared to 2022 Revenue decreased by $117.6 million, or 44%, to $152.1 million in 2023 from $269.7 million in 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the Companys player base as our monthly active users decreased from 2.1 million in 2022 to 1.0 million in 2023. This decrease reflects the decrease of our UA marketing and engagement marketing spend of 75% and 45%, respectively from 2023 to 2022. The reduction in user acquisition and engagement marketing spend was driven to prioritize profitability over revenue growth in fiscal 2023. The Company intentionally reduced spend to achieve better user acquisition efficiency and eliminate lower-return engagement marketing programs. ARPU decreased 8% over the same period. Cost of Revenue 2023 Compared to 2022 Cost of revenue decreased by $15.3 million, or 50%, to $15.4 million in 2023 from $30.7 million in 2022. The decrease in cost of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in amortization and depreciation due to the write off of intangible assets in the second half of the year-ended December 31, 2022, and continued reductions in payment processing and customer support personnel costs. Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 10% in 2023 from 11% in 2022. Research and Development 2023 Compared to 2022 Research and development costs decreased by $24.2 million, or 46%, to $28.1 million in 2023 from $52.3 million in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by a $24.6 million decrease in research and development employee related costs, due to a 14% reduction in headcount in research and development departments from the restructure in 2022. Sales and Marketing 2023 Compared to 2022 Sales and marketing costs decreased by $154.1 million, or 56%, to $122.9 million in 2023 from $277.0 million in 2022. The decrease was attributable primarily to 75% and 45% decreases in UA marketing and engagement marketing spend, respectively. This intentional decrease was driven by the strategic decision to prioritize profitability over revenue growth in 2023. UA marketing and engagement marketing decreased by $87.9 million and $52.3 million, respectively. Additionally, employee related expenses decreased $9.4 million, due to a 15% reduction in headcount in sales and marketing departments from the restructure in 2022. General and Administrative 2023 Compared to 2022 General and administrative costs decreased by $66.4 million, or 41%, to $96.7 million in 2023 from $163.0 million in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by a $76.8 million decrease in employee related expenses due to a 9% reduction in headcount in general and administrative departments from the restructure in 2022. This decrease was offset by an increase in legal fees of $7.6 million relating to ongoing legal matters. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-lived Assets During the year ended December 31, 2023we recorded an impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets of $3.3 million. The impairments were driven primarily by one of our investments in non-marketable securities we hold of a privately held company on account of significant concerns related to the private companys ability to continue as a going concern. During the year ended December 31, 2022we recorded an impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets of $168.1 million. The impairments were driven primarily by a sharp decrease in our stock price and market capitalization that we experienced throughout the year, as well as downward adjustments to our operating forecasts, which were considered triggering events for our goodwill and long-lived assets and indicated the assets may not be recoverable. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Gain on extinguishment of debt The gain on debt extinguishment of $15.2 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, was related to the 2021 Senior Secured Notes. Refer to Note 8, Long-Term Debt, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Interest expense, net 2023 Compared to 2022 Interest expense, net decreased by $23.7 million, to $2.9 million in 2023 from $26.5 million in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by the redemption of a portion of the principal amount of the 2021 Senior Secured Notes in 2022 and the repurchase of debt in the second quarter of 2023. Additionally, we had an increase of $4.5 million in interest income primarily from investment in marketable securities. Change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities 2023 Compared to 2022 The change in fair value of warrant liabilities decreased by $5.7 million to $0.3 million in 2023 from $6.0 million in 2022. Refer to Note 12, Common Stock Warrants, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Other income (expense), net 2023 Compared to 2022 Other income, net increased by $0.4 million to $0.5 million in other income in 2023 from $0.1 million in other income in 2022. The change was not material. Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2023 Compared to 2022 Provision for income taxes decreased by $0.6 million to $0.2 million in 2023 from a benefit from income taxes of $0.3 million. The decrease was primarily driven by a discrete benefit related to the partial release of valuation allowance related to the acquisition of Aarki in the prior period. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP measure is useful in evaluating our operational performance. We use the following non-GAAP financial information to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively with GAAP financial information, may be helpful to investors in assessing our operating performance. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), excluding interest income (expense), net; change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities; other income (expense), net; provision for (benefit from) income taxes; depreciation and amortization; stock-based compensation expense and related payroll tax expense; and certain other non-cash or non-recurring items impacting net loss from time to time, including, but not limited to impairment charges, loss contingency accruals, restructuring charges and one-time nonrecurring expenses, as they are not indicative of business operations. Adjusted EBITDA is intended as a supplemental measure of our performance that is neither required by, nor presented in accordance with, GAAP. Our management believes Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating its operating performance and is a similar measure reported by publicly-listed U.S. competitors, and regularly used by security analysts, institutional investors, and other interested parties in analyzing operating performance and prospects. By providing this non-GAAP measure, we intend to provide investors with an additional tool to use in evaluating ongoing operating results and trends and in comparing the Companys financial measures with those of comparable companies, which may present similar non-GAAP financial measures to investors. However, you should be aware that when evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, we may incur future expenses similar to those excluded when calculating this measure. In addition, our presentation of this measure should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Our computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures computed by other companies, because all companies may not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner. Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using Adjusted EBITDA on a supplemental basis. You should review the reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA below and not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. The following table reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net loss $ (101,360) $ (438,875) Interest expense, net 2,852 26,545 Stock-based compensation(1) 43,692 108,202 Change in fair value of common stock warrant liabilities (278) (6,004) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 239 (345) Depreciation and amortization 1,961 17,871 Gain on extinguishment of debt (15,205) (2,553) Other income, net (540) (125) Impairment charges(2) 3,335 168,051 Restructuring charges(3) 4,830 One-time nonrecurring expenses(4) 26 Loss contingency accrual(5) (3,524) Adjusted EBITDA $ (68,828) $ (122,377) (1)For the year ended 2022, amount includes stock-based compensation recognized for the cancellation of the Chief Executive Officers award of 805,000 performance share units granted on September 14, 2021 (the CEO Performance Stock Units). (2)For the year ended 2022, amount includes impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets related to the developed technology, customer relationships, computer equipment, and lease ROU. (3)For the year ended 2022, amount includes restructuring charges related to employee termination benefits. (4)For the year ended 2022, amounts represent one-time nonrecurring expenses related to IPO bonuses for certain employees, net of amounts forfeited by terminated employees. (5)For the year ended 2023, amount represents the settlement of a litigation matter relating to a former employee as discussed in Note 19, Subsequent Events. Segment Results 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have two reportable business segments; the Skillz segment and the Aarki segment. Skillz corporate operations primarily support Skillz and are included in the Skillz segment. Likewise, Aarki has its own corporate operations, which are included in the Aarki segment. The change from one to two reportable business segments was effective beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023. To provide comparability between reporting periods, results for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 have been recast to reflect this change. We evaluate the performance of our segments based on Segment Revenue and Segment Adjusted EBITDA. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is indicative of operational performance and is monitored by management to evaluate past performance and identify actions required to improve profitability. The segment measurements provided to, and evaluated by, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) are described in Note 17 Segment Reporting to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Segment Results for the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table provides Segment Revenue and Segment Adjusted EBITDA for each of our segments. Year Ended December 31, 2023 to 2022 Change Increase/(Decrease) 2023 2022 $ % Skillz Segment Revenue $ 139,210 $ 249,076 (109,866) (44.1) % Aarki Segment Revenue 13,233 22,053 (8,820) (40.0) % Elimination (364) (1,420) 1,056 74.4 % Consolidated Revenue $ 152,079 $ 269,709 (117,630) (43.6) % Skillz Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ (64,998) $ (126,642) 61,644 (48.7) % Aarki Segment Adjusted EBITDA (3,830) 4,265 (8,095) (189.8) % Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA $ (68,828) $ (122,377) 53,549 (43.8) % Skillz Segment Results Segment Revenue of $139.2 million in 2023 decreased $109.9 million, from $249.1 million in 2022 primarily due to a decrease in player base as monthly active users decreased from 2.1 million in 2022 to 1.0 million in 2023. Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss of $65.0 million in 2023 increased by $61.6 million from a loss of $126.6 million in 2022 due to reduced research and development, sales and marketing and administrative costs, partially offset by lower revenue. Aarki Segment Results Segment Revenue of $13.2 million in 2023 decreased $8.8 million, from $22.1 million in 2022 primarily due to lower advertising revenue. Segment Adjusted EBITDA loss of $3.8 million in 2023 decreased $8.1 million from income of $4.3 million in 2022 primarily due to the decline in revenue. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily from the sales of capital stock. As of December 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were our cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $302.0 million, which are primarily invested in money market funds and marketable securities with maturity less than three months, and marketable securities in the amount of $1.1 million. 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS In December 2021, the Company offered $300.0 million in aggregate principal senior secured notes due 2026 in a private offering. The notes were sold in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers. Annual interest started to accrue from December 20, 2021 at a stated rate of 10.25% and will be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2022. The notes mature on December 15, 2026. We used the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes. We may also use the proceeds for potential acquisitions of other companies, products, or technologies that we may identify in the future. The notes contain customary covenants restricting our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to incur debt, incur liens, make distributions to holders of our stock, make certain transactions with our affiliates, as well as certain financial covenants specified in the indentures. After giving effect to the September 1, 2022 and the 2023 open market repurchases of our senior secured notes, as of December 31, 2023, $129.7 million of the senior secured notes remained outstanding. We were in compliance with all covenants applicable to the notes as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. Our existing liquidity resources are sufficient to continue operating activities for at least one year past the issuance date of the consolidated financial statements. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We also may invest in or acquire complementary businesses, applications or technologies. The following table provides a summary of cash flow data (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (71,758) $ (179,597) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 168,301 $ 311,386 Net cash used in financing activities $ (149,951) $ (10,605) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by the growth of our business primarily related to research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $71.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The most significant component of our cash used during this period was a net loss of $101.4 million, which included non-cash expenses of $43.7 million related to stock-based compensation and partially offset by the gain on debt extinguishment of $15.2 million related to the open market repurchase of our senior secured notes during the second quarter of 2023, and net cash outflows of $7.0 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash outflows from changes of operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of decreases in prepaid expense and other current assets of $1.8 million and a decrease in operating lease liabilities of $2.1 million. This was offset by an increase in accounts receivable, net of $1.2 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $179.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The most significant component of our cash used during this period was a net loss of $438.9 million, which included non-cash expenses of $108.2 million related to stock-based compensation, including $65.1 million related to the cancellation of performance stock units granted to our CEO, non-cash goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charge of $168.1 million, non-cash income of $6.0 million for the change in fair value related to Private Common Stock Warrants, $17.9 million related to depreciation and amortization, a gain on extinguishment of debt for $2.6 million, and net cash outflows of $32.4 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash outflows from changes of operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of decreases in other liabilities of $28.0 million, accounts payable of $17.2 million, and a loss contingency accrual of $4.4 million. These net cash outflows were slightly offset by decreases of $5.6 million and $11.6 million in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $168.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The net cash provided by investing activities included $57.6 million in proceeds from sales of marketable securities and $126.0 million in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities. 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS Net cash provided by investing activities was $311.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The net cash provided by investing activities included $167.8 million in proceeds from sales of marketable securities and $599.5 million in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $454.1 million in purchases of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $150.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, which was primarily due to $13.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $135.9 million in principal payments on extinguishment of debt. Net cash used in financing activities was $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was primarily due to the $7.3 million payment for redemption of senior secured notes, $2.0 million in payments for debt issuance costs and $2.6 million in principal payments on finance lease obligations. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Leases We have operating lease arrangements for office space, and finance lease agreements for certain network equipment. As of December 31, 2023, we had lease payment obligations of $18.4 million, with $3.6 million payable within 12 months. Long-Term Debt The Companys long-term debt consists of the 2021 Senior Secured Notes. The total principal amount of $129.7 million, gross of discount and issuance costs, net, is due on December 15, 2026. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Revenue Recognition The Company generates substantially all its revenues through its Skillz segment by providing a service to game developers aimed at improving the monetization of their game content. The monetization service provided by Skillz allows developers to offer multi-player competition to their end-users which increases end-user retention and engagement. Skillz provides developers with a software development kit (SDK) that they can download and integrate with their existing games. The SDK serves as a data interface between Skillz and the game developers that enables Skillz to provide monetization services to the developer. The Company recognizes revenue for its services in accordance with the FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenue from Entry Fees The Company applies the five-step model to achieve the core principle of ASC 606. The Company determined that its customer in the provision of its technology platform and services is the game developer. The Companys ordinary activities consist of providing game developers services through access to its technology platform using the Skillz SDK. The SDK acts as an application programming interface enabling communication of data between Skillz and the game developers, which when integrated with the developers game content, facilitates end-user registration into competitions, managing and hosting end-user competition accounts, matching players of similar skill levels, collecting end-user entry fees, distributing end-user prizes, resolving end-user disputes pertaining to their participation in competitions, and running third-party marketing campaigns (collectively, Monetization Services). The Company provides Monetization Services to game developers enabling them to offer competitive games to their end-users. These activities are not distinct from each other as the Company provides an integrated service enabling game developers to provide the competitive game service to the end-users, and as a result, they do not represent separate performance obligations. The Company is entitled to a revenue share based on total entry fees for paid competitions, regardless of how they are paid, net of end-user prizes (i.e., winnings from the competitions) and other costs to provide the Monetization Services. Entry fees used to enter paid competitions can include net cash deposits, cash from prior winnings, and end-user incentives. The game developers earn monthly revenue share from end-users, calculated based on end users paid entry fees attributable to their games as a percentage of total entry fees. End-user incentives are not paid for by game developers. In addition, the Company accounts for end-user incentives either as a reduction of revenue or as sales and marketing expense (as noted below). The Company collects entry fees and related charges from end-users on behalf of game developers. This is done via the end-users pre-authorized credit card or PayPal account. The Company withholds its portion of revenue share and administrative costs from these entry fees. The balance is then recorded as a reduction to revenue for the amount owed to the game developer. Therefore, the game developers ability and intent to pay the amounts withheld by the Company is not subject to significant judgment or collection risk. Certain of Skillz larger developer agreements provide the Company with a right to withhold additional amounts from their revenue share. These amounts relate to game-specific sales and marketing costs incurred by the Company, in its sole discretion, to acquire end-users on behalf of the game developer. The amount and timing of such withholding(s) is (are) uncertain and based on the future performance of the respective developers games. Such amounts are recorded as part of the monthly settlement process with the game developer. Accordingly, the Company has included these amounts as a reduction to the revenue share paid to game developers. Revenue is recognized at the time the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of the promised service in an amount that reflects the consideration that the Company expects to receive in exchange for the Monetization Services. The Company does not recognize contract assets or contract liabilities as the payment of the transaction price is concurrent with fulfillment of the services. At the time of game completion, the Company has a right to receive payment for services rendered. The Companys agreements with game developers can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon thirty days prior written notice, and in certain of the Companys larger agreements, the game developer, if required by the Company, must continue to make its games available on the platform for a period of up to twelve months. The Company's agreements with certain game developers cannot be terminated by the developer without the Company's approval for a period of at least eighteen months under certain conditions. In accordance with optional exemptions available under Topic 606, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (1) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less, and (2) contracts for which variable consideration relates entirely to an unsatisfied performance obligation or to an unsatisfied promise to transfer a distinct service that forms a part of a single performance obligation. Games provided by two developer partners accounted for 80% of the Companys revenue from Monetization Services for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Total revenue from entry fees was $139.2 million and $249.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. End-User Incentive Programs To drive traffic to the platform, the Company provides promotions and incentives to end-users in various forms. Evaluating whether a promotion or incentive is a payment to a customer may require significant judgment. Promotions and incentives which are consideration payable to a customer are recognized as a reduction of revenue at the later of when revenue is recognized or when the Company pays or promises to pay the incentive. Promotions and incentives recorded as sales and marketing expense are recognized when we incur the related cost. 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our primary end-user incentive is Bonus Cash, which is a promotional incentive that cannot be withdrawn and can only be used by end-users to enter paid-entry fee contests. Bonus Cash used as entry fees for paid Competitions can include newly issued Bonus Cash and / or Bonus Cash returned to end-users from prior winnings. We recognize the entire cost of Bonus Cash as sales and marketing expenses or a reduction of revenue (as discussed below). When Bonus Cash is used towards entry fees for a paid Competition and is returned to an end-user as winnings, we do not record any additional sales and marketing expenses or reductions to revenue. Likewise, if Bonus Cash is returned to an end-user and is used to enter subsequent competitions, which they continue to win, we do not record any additional sales and marketing expenses or reductions to revenue. Marketing promotions and discounts accounted for as reductions to revenue. These promotions are typically pricing actions in the form of discounts that reduce end-user entry fees. These are offered on behalf of the game developers. Although not required based on the Companys agreement with its game developers, the Company considers that game developers have a valid expectation that certain incentives will be offered to end-users. The determination of a valid expectation is based on an evaluation of all information reasonably available to game developers regarding the Companys customary business practices, published policies and specific statements. An example of an incentive for which the game developer has a valid expectation is the initial deposit Bonus Cash that can be earned in fixed amounts when an end-user makes their first deposit on the Skillz platform. Bonus Cash can only be applied by end-users towards future paid-entry fee competitions and cannot be withdrawn. Another example of this type of incentive would be the redemption of Ticketz for either Bonus Cash or merchandise. The redemption process is managed by Skillz and redemption amounts can be changed at Skillz discretion. Marketing promotions accounted for as sales and marketing expense. When the Company concludes that game developers do not have a valid expectation that an incentive will be offered, Management records the related cost as sales and marketing expense. Managements assessment is based on an evaluation of all information reasonably available to game developers regarding the Companys customary business practices, published policies and specific statements. These promotions are offered to end-users to draw, re-engage, or generally increase their use of the Skillz platform. An example of this type of incentive is limited-time Bonus Cash offers, which are targeted to specific end-users, typically those who deposit more frequently or have not made a deposit recently, via email or in-app promotions. The Company targets groups of end-users differently, offering specific promotions it believes will best stimulate engagement. Similar to Bonus Cash earned from the redemption of Ticketz, which are virtual currency earned for every competition played based on the amount of the entry fee, or an initial deposit, limited-time Bonus Cash can only be used by end-users to enter future paid entry fee competitions and cannot be withdrawn. The Company also hosts engagement marketing leagues, which run over a period of days or weeks. Prizes are awarded to winners in the form of cash or luxury goods to end-users earning the most medals at the end of the league. End-users accumulate medals by winning Skillz enabled paid entry fee competitions. Skillz determines whether (or not) to run a league, what prizes should be awarded, over what time period the league should run, and to which end-users prizes should be paid, all at the Companys discretion. The parameters vary from one league to the next and are not reasonably known, nor communicated to game developers. League prizes in the form of cash can be withdrawn or applied towards future paid-entry fee competitions. From time to time, the Company issues credits or refunds to end-users that are dissatisfied by the level of service provided by the game developer. There is no contractual obligation for the Company to refund such end-users nor is there a valid expectation by game developers for the Company to issue such credits or refunds to end-users on their behalf. The Company accounts for credits or refunds, which are not recoverable from the game developer, as sales and marketing expenses when incurred. 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS Indirect Tax Liabilities The Company is subject to indirect taxes, including sales and use tax in the United States and value-add tax in certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company has indirect tax liabilities totaling $11.2 million and $10.9 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, associated with indirect taxes based on currently available information and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable based on an evaluation of relevant factors. The Companys application of the revenue code for indirect taxes in certain jurisdictions, including those within the United States, may be challenged by taxing authorities in those jurisdictions. Any associated assessments may result in additional tax liabilities. The Company does not currently anticipate that any such assessments will result in a material increase in the liabilities. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for more information about recent accounting pronouncements, the timing of their adoption, and our assessment, to the extent we have made one, of their potential impact on our financial condition and our results of operations.