ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited annual consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 7 in this Form 10-K discusses the Company's fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022 results and the year-over-year comparisons between fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022. Discussion of the fiscal year 2022 results and the year-over-year comparisons between fiscal year 2022 and fiscal year 2021 can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2023, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2023, and incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Companys current expectations, estimates, and assumptions concerning events and financial trends that may affect future operating results or financial position. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed or implied in the Companys forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and elsewhere herein. SkyWater's fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to the end of the twelfth calendar month. We refer to the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023 as fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022, respectively. Fiscal years 2023 and 2022 each include 52 weeks. All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this managements discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding period. For purposes of this section, the terms we, us, our, and SkyWater refer to SkyWater Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively. Overview We are a U.S.-based, independent, pure-play technology foundry that offers advanced semiconductor development and manufacturing services from our fabrication facility, or fab, in Minnesota and advanced packaging services from our Florida facility. Our TaaS model leverages a strong foundation of proprietary technology to co-develop process technology IP with our customers that enables disruptive concepts through our ATC for diverse microelectronics (ICs) and related micro- and nanotechnology applications. In addition to differentiated technology development services, we support customers with volume production of ICs for high-growth markets through our Wafer Services. The combination of semiconductor development and manufacturing services we provide our customers is not available to them from a conventional fab. In addition, we believe our status as a publicly-traded, U.S.-based pure-play technology foundry with DMEA Category 1A Trusted Accreditation from the DoD positions us well to provide distinct, competitive advantages to our customers. These advantages include the benefits of enhanced IP security and secure access to a U.S. domestic supply chain. We primarily focus on serving diversified, high-growth end users in numerous vertical markets, including (1) advanced compute, (2) A&D, (3) automotive, (4) bio-health, and (5) industrial. By housing both development and manufacturing in a single operation, we rapidly and efficiently transition newly-developed processes to high-yielding volume production, eliminating the time it would otherwise take to transfer production to a third-party fab. Through our ATS model, we specialize in co-creating with our customers advanced solutions that directly serve our end markets, such as infrared imaging, superconducting ICs for quantum computing, CMOS, integrated photonics, MEMS, technologies for biomedical and imaging applications, and advanced packaging. Our Wafer Services include the manufacture of silicon-based analog and mixed-signal ICs for our end markets. Our focus on the differentiated analog and CMOS markets supports long product life-cycles and requirements that value performance over cost-efficiencies, and leverages our portfolio IP. 41 Factors and Trends Affecting our Business and Results of Operations The following trends and uncertainties either affected our financial performance in fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022, or are reasonably likely to impact our results in the future. Macroeconomic and competitive conditions, including cyclicality and consolidation, as well as government funding in semiconductor technology and manufacturing, create unique challenges and opportunities for the semiconductor industry and SkyWater. In August 2022, the U.S. enacted the CHIPS and Science Act pursuant to which the United States has committed to a renewed focus on providing incentives and funding for onshore companies to develop and advance the latest semiconductor technologies, supporting onshore manufacturing capabilities, and on strengthening key onshore supply chains. The CHIPS Act authorizes the U.S. Department of Commerce to enable execution of awards under the CHIPS Act and provides $52.7 billion for American semiconductor research, development, manufacturing, and workforce development, including $39 billion in financial assistance to build, expand, or modernize domestic facilities and equipment for semiconductor fabrication, assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or research and development. In December 2023, we submitted an application to the CHIPS Program Office of the U.S. Department of Commerce for funding through the CHIPS and Science Act for modernization and equipment upgrades to enhance production at our Minnesota facility. Our overall level of indebtedness from our revolving credit agreement, which we refer to as the Revolver (as defined in Note 6 Debt to the consolidated financial statements), financing arising from the sale and leaseback of the land and building of our Minnesota facility, which we refer to as the VIE Financing, financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment, which we refer to as the Tool Financing Loans, and the corresponding interest rates charged to us by our lenders, are key components of maintaining capital funding that allow us to continue to grow our business. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: Revenue and gross profit; and Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted (adjusted EBITDA), which is a financial measure not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), that excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial measure, see the section entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measure below. 42 Results of Operations This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to our operating results for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023. Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023 (in thousands) Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenue $ 286,682 $ 212,941 35 % Cost of revenue 227,390 186,974 22 % Gross profit 59,292 25,967 128 % Research and development expense 10,169 9,431 8 % Selling, general, and administrative expense 63,911 46,303 38 % Operating loss (14,788) (29,767) (50) % Other expense: Loss on debt extinguishment (1,101) (100) % Interest expense (10,826) (5,194) 108 % Total other expense (10,826) (6,295) 72 % Loss before income taxes (25,614) (36,062) (29) % Income tax (benefit) expense (521) 809 (164) % Net loss (25,093) (36,871) (32) % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 5,663 2,722 108 % Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (30,756) $ (39,593) (22) % Revenue Revenue increased $73.7 million, or 35%, to $286.7 million for fiscal year 2023, from $212.9 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase for fiscal year 2023 was primarily driven by an increase in ATS development revenue. The following table shows revenue by service type for fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022: Fiscal Year Ended Percentage Change December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023 (in thousands) ATS development $ 210,904 $ 137,900 53 % Tools 14,651 1,546 848 % Wafer Services 61,127 73,495 (17) % Total $ 286,682 $ 212,941 35 % 43 ATS development revenue increased $73.0 million, or 53%, from $137.9 million for fiscal year 2022 to $210.9 million for fiscal year 2023. Of this increase, $64.6 million was primarily driven by continued momentum in U.S. government programs to bolster the domestic semiconductor supply chain and strengthen the defense industrial base and $8.4 million was due to increased activity in the cloud and computing end markets. Tools revenue increased $13.1 million, or 848%, from $1.5 million for fiscal year 2022 to $14.7 million for fiscal year 2023 driven by increased investment by our customers to acquire tools that advance our capabilities of their ATS development programs. Wafer Services revenue decreased $12.4 million, or 17%, from $73.5 million for fiscal year 2022 to $61.1 million for fiscal year 2023.The decrease was primarily driven by $8.3 million of incremental one-time revenue related to a new contract signed with a customer in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. In addition, $3.7 million of the decrease was attributable to lower demand and volume in the automotive and consumer industry end-markets. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased $40.4 million, or 22%, from$187.0 million for fiscal year 2022 to $227.4 million for fiscal year 2023. The increase was primarily attributable to increases in labor costs of $17.0 million, including $0.7 million of restructuring costs related to the reorganization of our resources, outside services costs of $3.1 million, warranty maintenance of $3.0 million, raw material costs of $2.7 million, and asset write-offs of $1.1 million. Cost of revenue related to the cost of services to qualify customer funded tool technologies increased $11.4 million year-over-year as customers invest in our capabilities to expand our technology platforms. Additionally, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, a change in contract terms with a significant Wafer Services customer resulted in an additional $10.9 million in cost of revenue recognized during fiscal year 2022, partially offset by a $4.1 million adjustment to the net realizable value of wafer inventory, which lowered cost of revenue in fiscal year 2022 relative to fiscal year 2023. The remaining $8.9 million increase was related to costs incurred due to increased demand from our U.S. governmental programs. Research and development expense Research and development expense increased $0.7 million, or 8%, from $9.4 million for fiscal year 2022 to $10.2 million for fiscal year 2023. The increase was primarily attributable to $0.7 million of restructuring costs related to the reorganization of our resources. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased $17.6 million, or 38%, from $46.3 million for fiscal year 2022 to $63.9 million for fiscal year 2023. The increase was primarily attributable to $11.4 million in project-based management consulting services related to long-term transformation activities focused on improvement in automation and operational efficiency, $1.3 million in project-based specialist fees related to submission of our CHIPS Act application, and an increase of $5.5 million in labor costs, including $0.6 million of restructuring costs related to the reorganization of our resources as we continued our long-term transformation activities focused on improvement in automation and operational efficiency. Loss on debt extinguishment In fiscal year 2022, we expensed $1.1 million of unamortized debt issuance costs and fees in connection with the extinguishment of debt in December 2022. There was no loss on debt extinguishment in fiscal year 2023. Interest expense Interest expense increased $5.6 million, or 108%, from $5.2 million for fiscal year 2022 to $10.8 million for fiscal year 2023. The increase was primarily the result of increased amounts outstanding under the Revolver and tool financing loans and a higher average interest rate on the Revolver in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022. Income tax (benefit) expense Income tax benefit was $0.5 million for fiscal year 2023 compared to income tax expense of $0.8 million for fiscal year 2022. The effective income tax rate was 2.0% for fiscal year 2023 compared to (2.2)% for fiscal year 2022. The effective income tax rates for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 differ from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to application of a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets resulting from our assessment of our ability to utilize those deferred tax assets in future periods. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased to $5.7 million for fiscal year 2023 from $2.7 million for fiscal year 2022. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the net income of Oxbow Realty, the variable interest entity (VIE) that we consolidate and represents the economic interest in the profits and losses of the VIE that the owners of our shareholders equity do not legally have rights or obligations to. The increase in the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily relates to increased interest income from the failed sale leaseback transaction with SkyWater. 44 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA increased $29.5 million, or 383%, to $37.2 million for fiscal year 2023 from $7.7 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase in adjusted EBITDA primarily reflects increased revenues at higher margins as a result of the overall growth in our ATS development revenue, partially offset by increased labor and infrastructure costs as we continue to scale our business to meet the demands of our customers. For a discussion of adjusted EBITDA as well as a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, see the section below entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measure. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2023, for a discussion of the Companys results of operations during the fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our ability to execute our operating strategy is dependent on our ability to maintain liquidity and continue to access capital through our Revolver (as defined in Note 6 Debt to the consolidated financial statements) and other sources of financing. Our current business plans indicate that we may require additional liquidity to continue our operations and maintain compliance with financial covenants for the next twelve months from the date the consolidated financial statements are issued. We have identified specific actions that we could take to reduce operating costs and improve cash flows, including reductions in spending and delays in hiring personnel. If such actions are taken, it may require us to decrease our level of planned investment in new products and technologies, or discontinue further expansion of our business. We have also obtained a support letter from Oxbow Industries, an affiliate of our principal stockholder, to provide funding in an amount up to $12.5 million, if necessary, to enable us to meet our obligations as they become due. The support letter expires March 18, 2026. Based upon our operational forecasts, our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our available borrowings on the Revolver, potential cost reduction measures we could take, and the support letter from Oxbow Industries, as needed, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, we could seek additional equity or debt financing, including a refinancing and/or expansion of the Revolver. However we cannot provide any assurance that additional funds will be available when needed or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Our ability to access additional funds depends on prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us. We had $18.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, not including cash held by a VIE that we consolidate, and availability under our Revolver of $78.2 million at December 31, 2023. We are subject to certain liquidity and EBITDA covenants under our Loan Agreement, as outlined in the section below entitled Indebtedness. Open Market Sale Agreement On September 2, 2022, the Company entered into an Open Market Sale Agreement with Jefferies LLC (the Open Market Sale Agreement) with respect to an at the market offering program (the ATM Program) under which the Company may, from time to time, offer and sell up to $100 million in shares of the Companys common stock. From the date of the Open Market Sale Agreement through December 31, 2023, the Company sold 2,081,167 shares under the Open Market Sale Agreement at an average sale price of $10.10 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $21.0 million before deducting sales commissions and fees of approximately $0.6 million. The Company used the net proceeds of approximately $20.4 million to pay down its Revolver and fund its operations. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $74.9 million in shares were available for issuance under the Open Market Sale Agreement. Common Stock Offering On November 17, 2022, we completed a public offering (the Offering) and issued 1,916,667 shares of common stock, including the underwriters exercise of its right to purchase additional shares at a price per share of $9.00 to the public, less underwriting discounts and commissions. We received net proceeds of $16.1 million from the Offering, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions. We used the net proceeds from the Offering primarily for general corporate purposes, which included, among other things, funding of operations, repayment of indebtedness, additions to working capital, and/or capital expenditures. 45 Capital Expenditures For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we spent approximately $12.8 million and $18.6 million, respectively, on capital expenditures, including purchases of property, equipment and software. The majority of these capital expenditures relate to our foundry expansion in Minnesota, as discussed below, and the development of our advanced packaging capabilities at the Center for NeoVation in Florida. We anticipate our cash on hand and the availability under the Revolver will provide the funds needed to meet our customer demand and anticipated capital expenditures in fiscal year 2024. We have approximately $7.9 million of contractual commitments related to various anticipated capital expenditures outstanding as of December 31, 2023 that we expect to be paid in fiscal year 2024 through cash on hand and operating cash flows. Working Capital Historically, we have depended on cash on hand, funds available under our Revolver and, in the future, we may need to depend on additional debt and equity financings to fund our growth strategy, working capital needs, and capital expenditures. We believe that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide cash, as required, to support our strategy, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, lease obligations, and working capital for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain future debt or equity financings on commercially reasonable terms sufficient to meet our cash requirements. At December 31, 2023, the outstanding balance of our Revolver was $21.8 million, and our remaining availability under the Revolver was $78.2 million. The following table sets forth general information derived from our consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2023 and 2022: Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 10,081 $ (14,297) Net cash used in investing activities (10,489) (17,453) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (11,235) 48,858 46 Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, we had $18.4 million and $30.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. A discussion of the change in cash and cash equivalents can be found below. Operating Activities Cash flow from operations is driven by changes in the working capital needs associated with the various goods and services we provide, and expenses related to the infrastructure in place to support revenue generation. Working capital is primarily affected by changes in accounts receivable, contract assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and contract liabilities, all of which are partially correlated to and impacted by changes in the timing and volume of activities performed in our facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $10.1 million during fiscal year 2023, an increase of $24.4 million from $14.3 million of net cash used in operating activities during fiscal year 2022. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2023 was driven primarily by an increase in our contract liabilities of $19.2 million and accounts payable and accrued expenses of $21.3 million during the period, due to the timing of the payment of amounts owed to our vendors. These increases in liabilities were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable and contract assets of $33.4 million as a result of the timing of cash receipts from customers against revenue earned on customer contracts. Investing Activities Our investments in capital expenditures are intended to enable revenue growth in new and expanding markets, help us meet product demand, and increase our manufacturing efficiencies and capacity. Net cash used in investing activities was $10.5 million during fiscal year 2023, a decrease of $7.0 million from $17.5 million in fiscal year 2022. The decrease in cash used in fiscal year 2023 reflects decreased capital spending on property and equipment compared to fiscal year 2022. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $11.2 million during fiscal year 2023, a decrease of $60.1 million from net cash provided by financing activities of $48.9 million during fiscal year 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by net pay downs of our Revolver of $38.3 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our ATM Program of $20.4 million and proceeds from tool financing of $9.0 million. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2023, for a discussion of the Companys consolidated cash flows during the fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. Indebtedness Sale Leaseback Transaction In 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell the land and building of our Minnesota facility to Oxbow Realty, an affiliate of our principal stockholder, for $39.0 million, less applicable transaction costs of $1.5 million and transaction services fees paid to Oxbow Realty of $2.0 million, and paid a guarantee fee to our principal stockholder of $2.0 million. We subsequently entered into an agreement to lease the land and building from Oxbow Realty for initial payments of $0.4 million per month over 20 years. The monthly payments are subject to a 2% increase each year during the term of the lease. We are also required to make certain customary payments constituting additional rent, including certain monthly reserve, insurance, and tax payments, in accordance with the terms of the lease. Due to our continuing involvement in the property, we are accounting for the transactions as a failed sale leaseback. Under failed sale leaseback accounting, we are deemed the owner of the land and building with the proceeds received recorded as a financial obligation. Revolving Credit Agreement On December 28, 2022, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Siena Lending Group LLC (Siena). The Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $100.0 million with a scheduled maturity date of December 28, 2025 (the Revolver). The Company incurred $4.3 million of debt issuance costs, which will be amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Revolver. At December 31, 2023, we had borrowings of $21.8 million under the Revolver. Borrowing under the Loan Agreement is limited by a borrowing base of specified advance rates applicable to billed accounts receivable, contract assets, inventory and equipment, subject to various conditions, limits and any availability block as provided in the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement also provides for borrowing base sublimits applicable to each of contract assets and equipment. Under certain circumstances, Siena may, from time to time, establish and revise reserves against the borrowing base and/or the maximum revolving facility amount. 47 Borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate that depends upon the type of borrowing, whether a term secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) loan or base rate loan, plus the applicable margin. The term SOFR loan rate is a forward-looking term rate based on SOFR for a tenor of one month on the applicable day, subject to a minimum of 2.5% per annum. The base rate is the greatest of the prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and 7.0% per annum. The applicable margin is an applicable percentage based on the fixed charge coverage ratio that ranges from 5.25% to 6.25% per annum for term SOFR loans and ranges from 4.25% to 5.25% per annum for base rate loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and financial and other covenants and conditions. Subject to certain cure rights, the Loan Agreement requires $10.0 million in minimum EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement) calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, prohibits unfunded capital expenditures in excess of $15.0 million calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, and requires a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, measured on a trailing twelve month basis, of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 if our liquidity is less than $15.0 million. In addition, the Loan Agreement places certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness (other than permitted indebtedness), to create liens or other encumbrances (other than liens relating to permitted indebtedness), to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, to merge or consolidate with other entities, and to make certain restricted payments, including payments of dividends to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with applicable financial covenants of the Loan Agreement and expect to be in compliance with applicable financial covenants over the next twelve months. Due to a lockbox clause in the Loan Agreement, the outstanding loan balance is required to be serviced with working capital, and the debt is classified as short-term on the consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. VIE Financing On September 30, 2020, Oxbow Realty, the Companys consolidated VIE, entered into a loan agreement for $39.0 million (the VIE Financing) to finance the acquisition of the building and land of the SkyWater Minnesota facility. The VIE Financing is repayable in equal monthly installments of $0.2 million over 10 years, with the balance payable at the maturity date of October 6, 2030. The interest rate under the VIE Financing is fixed at 3.44%. The VIE Financing is guaranteed by Oxbow Industries, who is also the sole equity holder of Oxbow Realty. The VIE Financing is not subject to financial covenants. The terms of the VIE Financing include provisions that grant the lender several protective rights when certain triggering events defined in the loan agreement occur, including events tied to SkyWaters occupancy of the SkyWater Minnesota facility and SkyWaters financial performance. The triggering events are not financial covenants and the occurrence of these triggering events do not represent events of default, nor do they result in the VIE Financing becoming callable, rather the protective rights become enforceable by the lender. Based on the level of SkyWaters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring or rent costs relative to gross rents paid from SkyWater to Oxbow Realty, as defined in the loan agreement, a trigger event exists and the lenders protective rights are currently enforceable. Pursuant to its protective rights, the lender has retained in a restricted account amounts paid by SkyWater to Oxbow Realty pursuant to the Companys related party lease agreement that are in excess of the scheduled debt payments paid by Oxbow Realty to the lender. The funds held in the restricted accounts become remittable back to Oxbow Realty once the trigger event is cured. As of December 31, 2023, Oxbow Realty maintained a $7.9 million receivable for the cumulative amount of excess payments held by the lender in the restricted account. The VIE Financing is secured by a security interest in the land and building which was the subject of the sale-leaseback transaction described above. The Companys VIE incurred third-party transaction costs of $0.1 million, which are recognized as debt issuance costs and are amortizing as additional interest expense over the life of the VIE Financing. The Company incurred additional third-party transaction costs of $3.5 million, which are recognized as debt issuance costs and are being amortized as additional interest expense over the life of the VIE Financing. Tool Financing Loans We, from time to time, enter into financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment. Between the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 and the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, we entered into arrangements to sell manufacturing tools and other equipment to financing lenders. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, these arrangements totaled $3.1 million and for fiscal year 2023, these arrangements totaled $5.2 million. These agreements include bargain purchase options at the end of the lease terms, which we intend to exercise. These transactions represent failed sale leasebacks with the associated equipment recorded in property and equipment, net and the proceeds received, net of scheduled repayments of the financings, recorded as debt on the consolidated balance sheets. Additionally, advance payments of $3.8 million have been made to a tool vendor on the Companys behalf by a lender. When the tool is placed into service, the Company anticipates a financing agreement will be executed to repay the lender the outstanding financial liability over a period of time. The advance payments are recorded as short-term financing on the Companys consolidated balance sheets. 48 Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to following, for which information on both a short-term and long-term basis is provided in the indicated notes to the consolidated financial statements: DebtRefer to Note 6. Capital expenditure commitmentsRefer to Note 12. Capital lease commitmentsRefer to Note 14. Sale leaseback obligationRefer to Note 16. Tax obligationsRefer to Note 7. Other commitments and contingenciesRefer to Note 12. Recent Accounting Developments For information on new accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status We qualify as an emerging growth company pursuant to the provisions of the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory say-on-pay votes on executive compensation, and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. The JOBS Act also permits an emerging growth company like us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards on a non-delayed basis. We are also a smaller reporting company. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Specifically, as a smaller reporting company we may choose to present only the two most recent fiscal years of audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and, similar to emerging growth companies, smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation. Critical Accounting Estimates In connection with preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expense, and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates, and judgments on historical experience, current trends, and other factors that management believes are relevant at the time we prepared our consolidated financial statements. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates, and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ materially from our assumptions and estimates. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, valuation of inventory, equity-based compensation, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 49 Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when control of promised goods or services are transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. To recognize revenues, we apply the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the customer contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the customer contract, and (5) recognize revenues when or as we satisfy a performance obligation. We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from all parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of transaction price is probable. At contract inception, we apply judgment in determining customers abilities and intentions to pay amounts entitled to us when due based on a variety of factors including customers historical payment experience. We primarily derive revenue from the performance of ATS wafer manufacturing process development services and the manufacture and delivery of wafers via Wafer Services. ATS Development ATS development contracts are focused on the performance of process development services, the output of which is a manufacturing plan that defines the steps and activities needed to produce our customers wafers at high volumes and with high yields. Wafer manufacturing development services do not include services to manufacture wafers for our customers at scale. ATS development contracts are complex and wafer manufacturing development services are often either the lone performance obligation in an ATS development contract, or the performance obligation to which the majority of the contract value is allocated. We have both fixed price and time-and-materials contracts with our ATS development customers. Our ATS development customers receive the benefits of these services, and revenue from performance of these services are recognized, over time as we perform them. Revenue on fixed price contracts is recognized using either an output or input method based upon the method that best measures the value of the services performed for our customers. Whether we use an input or output method requires judgment and is subject to thorough analysis of the terms of each fixed price contract. We consistently use either our output method or our input method for similar performance obligations and in similar circumstances. Our output method of revenue recognition evaluates the steps and activities needed to complete manufacturing development services and relies on surveys of steps and activities completed and partially completed as of the reporting date in relation to the current manufacturing development plans to measure the level of progress on the service. There are many steps and activities included in our manufacturing development plans. The time and effort to complete the steps and activities are very similar, which demonstrates a level of uniformity. This uniformity accurately conveys the steps and activities successfully validated during development in relation to the development plan and therefore provides a faithful representation of the progress achieved on wafer manufacturing development services. Based on the level of progress, we record the proportion of the transaction price allocated to wafer manufacturing development services as revenue in the period. Our manufacturing development plans are subject to change as data is analyzed and the plans are revised. Development of production plans are technical endeavors and adjustment to manufacturing development plans may impact the percentage of progress achieved and result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. We use the input method of revenue recognition for larger customer programs that are focused on development of new applications or whose manufacturing processes will rely on new or emerging technologies. Wafer manufacturing development services for these customers is inherently more complex and requires more changes to manufacturing development plans over the period we perform the services. Given the level of technical complexity and the expectation that there will be more changes to manufacturing plans as compared to other customer programs, we measure progress for larger customer programs by comparing costs incurred to date to estimated total cost required to complete wafer manufacturing development services. We record that proportion of the transaction price allocated to wafer manufacturing development services as revenue in the period. Costs include labor costs, manufacturing costs, material costs, and other direct costs incurred while performing the services. The estimation of total costs requires significant judgment and any adjustment to our estimates of total cost may impact the proportion of progress achieved and could result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. When contracts are fixed price, we complete the evaluation of onerous ATS development contracts as of the reporting date for each separate contract, not for separate performance obligations in each contract. We recognize losses on onerous ATS development contracts depending on whom our customer is based on the following: U.S. Federal Government We designate all ATS development contracts with the U.S. Federal Government as production-type service contracts; accordingly, we accrue liabilities for onerous contracts in the period it becomes evident the contract will result in a loss. Customers other than the U.S. Federal Government As we generally develop wafer manufacturing plans for our customers under ATS development contracts, our ATS development contracts with our non-U.S. Federal Government ATS development customers do not represent production-type service contracts; accordingly, we recognize losses as the losses are incurred; we do not accrue liabilities for anticipated losses. 50 Tools SkyWater procures tools on behalf of certain customers. Tool revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the tool transfers to the customer. The point in time when control of a tool transfers to the customer is determined by customer contract terms. For some customers, control transfers when the tool is shipped or delivered to a SkyWater facility, while for other customers, control transfers when the tool is installed, qualified, and placed into service at a SkyWater facility. Wafer Services Wafers are goods that are generally customer specific, highly customized, and have no alternative use to us. Our Wafer Services customers contract with us to manufacture wafers based on their manufacturing design specifications. The terms of our Wafer Services contracts dictate when control over wafers is transferred to our customers. For contracts where orders are non-cancelable and we thereby maintain enforceable rights to customer performance, including rights to payment for partially completed wafers at reasonable margins, control over wafers transfers to our customers as we manufacture wafers. For these contracts, we recognize revenue using an input method. This method measures the percentage of completion of wafers still in the manufacturing process by comparing total costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs to manufacture the wafers. We record that proportion of the transaction price as revenue in the period. Our input method provides the best method of progress as it considers the steps and activities needed to manufacture a wafer and the costs associated with those steps. Costs include labor costs, manufacturing costs, material costs, and other direct costs required to manufacture our customers wafers. The estimation of total costs requires significant judgment and any adjustment to our estimates of cost to complete manufacturing may impact the proportion of completion achieved and could result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. When our contracts allow for orders to be canceled and we do not maintain enforceable rights to customer performance on canceled orders, including a right to payment for partially completed wafers at reasonable margins, control of wafers transfers to our customers at the point in time when wafer manufacturing is complete, and wafers have been shipped to the customer. In these instances, we recognize revenue based on the agreed shipping terms with our customers. We have a long-standing relationship with a significant Wafer Services customer. The terms and conditions of this relationship have evolved over time and have dictated the manner in which we recognized revenue for the manufacture of their wafers. Prior to fiscal year 2021, transfer of control of wafers, and revenue recognition occurred, as completed wafers were shippedto the customer. In fiscal year 2021, this customerrequested that it be able to purchase wafers and for those wafers to be shipped to them at a later date of their choosing. With the introduction of these bill and hold terms, transfer of control of the wafers, and revenue recognition occurred, as wafers completed post-manufacturing electrical testing and became available for shipment to the customer. In March 2022, we signed a new contract with this customer pursuant to which orders became non-cancelable and thus there was a right to specific performance by the customer, including an enforceable right to payment for the cost of partially completed orders plus a reasonable profit margin. Given that the wafers produced for this customer are for customer-specific applications with no alternative use, the introduction of these contract terms demonstrated that control of the wafers transfers to the customer over time as the wafers are manufactured pursuant to Topic 606. Accordingly, our revenue recognition method for wafers produced for this customer transitioned from point in time to over-time using our input method of revenue recognition. In March 2022, we recorded a one-time cumulative adjustment to revenue of $8.3 million for wafers still being manufactured at the time the new contract became enforceable. Between fiscal year 2021 and March 2022, wafers manufactured while bill and hold provisions were in place, were separately identified as belonging to this customer, the wafers were denoted as ready for shipment to this customer in their then current form, and we did not have the ability to direct or sell the wafers to a different customer. Upon completion of post-manufacturing electrical testing, we had the right to invoice this customer. This customer also obtained legal title and the risks and rewards of ownership at this point. Long-lived Assets We review long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets with definite lives, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, known as triggering events, indicate that the assets or asset groups carrying amount may not be recoverable. Triggering events include, but are not limited to, reduced or expected sustained decreases in cash flows generated by an asset or asset group, negative changes in industry conditions, a significant change in an assets or asset groups use or physical condition, and the introduction of competing technologies. When assessing an asset or asset group for impairment, we complete a two-step process. In the first step, we assess the recoverability of the asset or asset group by comparing the carrying amount of the asset or asset group against the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by an asset or asset group exceed the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, the carrying amount of the asset or asset group is recoverable and not impaired. If the carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group, further analysis is required in step two. In the second step, the fair value of the asset or asset group is determined. If the fair value of the asset or asset group exceeds the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, the asset or asset group is not impaired. If the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group, an impairment loss is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations to the extent the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset or asset group, not to exceed the carrying amount of the asset or asset group. 51 For purposes of impairment testing, we group assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The undiscounted cash flow analysis consists of estimating the future cash flows that are directly associated with, and are expected to arise from, the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset groups over its remaining useful life. These estimated cash flows are inherently subjective and include significant assumptions, specifically forecasted revenue and operating margins that require estimates based upon historical experience and future expectations. We use various approaches to determine fair values of our long-lived assets, including the income approach, the sales comparison approach, and the cost approach. Each approach is inherently subjective and includes significant assumptions, specifically the comparability of similar assets, the potential income and expenses that would be derived or incurred to rent those long-lived assets, obsolescence factors, and capitalization and discount rates. Due to our history of operating losses, we estimated the fair value of our long-lived assets as of December 31, 2023. The estimated fair value of our long-lived assets significantly exceeded their carrying amounts. As such, we did not recognize an impairment loss against our long-lived assets despite our fiscal year 2023 operating losses. Income Taxes In determining taxable income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expenses. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years, and our forecast of future taxable income. In estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions regarding the reversal of temporary differences. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. We currently have recorded a valuation allowance that we will maintain until, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of a decrease in our valuation allowance. The realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. Any reduction in future taxable income may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Because the determination of the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized is based, in part, on our forecast of future profitability, it is inherently uncertain and subjective. Changes in market conditions and our assumptions may cause the actual future profitability to differ materially from our current expectation, which may require us to increase or decrease the valuation allowance. Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management records the effect of a tax rate or law change on our deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period of enactment. Future tax rate or law changes could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 52 Non-GAAP Financial Measure Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, an additional non-GAAP financial measure is provided and reconciled in the table below. We provide supplemental non-GAAP financial information that our management regularly evaluates to provide additional insight to investors as supplemental information to our U.S. GAAP results. Our management uses adjusted EBITDA to make informed operating decisions, complete strategic planning, prepare annual budgets, and evaluate the Companys and managements performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it provides a baseline for analyzing trends in our business and excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results. The use of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, the comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In addition, because this non-GAAP financial measure is not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, other companies, including our peers, may calculate their non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do. As a result, the non-GAAP financial measure presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is not a financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We define adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income before interest expense, income tax (benefit) expense, depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation, and certain other items that we do not view as indicative of our ongoing performance, including net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, business transformation costs, CHIPS Act specialist fees, management transition expense, SkyWater Florida start-up costs, and restructuring costs. We believe adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it allows for an effective evaluation of our operating performance when compared to other companies, including our peers, without regard to financing methods or capital structures. We exclude the items listed above from net income or loss in arriving at adjusted EBITDA because these amounts can vary substantially within our industry depending on the accounting methods and policies used, book values of assets, capital structures, and the methods by which the assets were acquired. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain items excluded from adjusted EBITDA are significant components in understanding and assessing a companys financial performance, such as a companys cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic costs of depreciable assets, none of which are reflected in adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indication that our results will be unaffected by the items excluded from adjusted EBITDA. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, unless otherwise expressly indicated. We continuously evaluate the non-GAAP financial measures we use, the manner in which non-GAAP financial measures are calculated, and the adjustments we make to GAAP results to derive our non-GAAP financial measures. 53 The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA, our most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023 (in thousands) Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (30,756) $ (39,593) Interest expense (1) 10,826 6,295 Income tax (benefit) expense (521) 809 Depreciation and amortization 28,930 28,192 EBITDA 8,479 (4,297) Equity-based compensation (2) 6,860 8,606 SkyWater Florida start-up costs (3) 686 Restructuring costs (4) 1,921 Business transformation costs (5) 12,169 Management transition expense (6) 835 CHIPS Act specialist fees (7) 1,320 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests (8) 5,663 2,722 Adjusted EBITDA $ 37,247 $ 7,717 __________________ (1)Includes losses related to the extinguishment of the our revolving credit agreement in 2022. (2)Represents non-cash equity-based compensation expense. (3)Represents start-up costs associated with our 200 mm heterogeneous integration facility in Kissimmee, Florida, which includes legal fees, recruiting expenses, retention awards, and facility start-up expenses. These expenses are not representative of our expected ongoing costs. Effective in fiscal year 2023, our Kissimmee, Florida plant is up and running and no longer in its start-up phase. (4)Represents severance and other costs related to the reorganization of our resources. (5)Represents expenses related to long-term transformation activities focused on improvement in automation and operational efficiency and includes project-based management consulting fees and the write-off of abandoned software assets. (6)Represents severance and other costs related to the reorganization of the manufacturing and operations leadership team. (7)Represents project-based specialist fees related to our CHIPS Act application process. (8)Represents net income attributable to our VIE, which was formed for the purpose of purchasing the land and building of our primary operating facility in Bloomington, Minnesota. Since interest expense is added back to net loss to shareholders in our adjusted EBITDA financial measure, we also add back the net income attributable to the VIE as its net income is derived from interest the VIE charges SkyWater. 54