Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Companys audited annual consolidated financial statements and related notes, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Companys current expectations, estimates and assumptions concerning events and financial trends that may affect the Companys future operating results or financial position. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed or implied in the Companys forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements herein and elsewhere in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. SkyWater refers to the three-month periods ended March 31, 2024 and April 2, 2023 as the first quarter of 2024 and first quarter of 2023, respectively. Each of these three-month periods includes 13 weeks. All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this managements discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding period. For purposes of this section, the terms we, us, our, and SkyWater refer to SkyWater Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively. Overview We are a U.S.-based, independent, pure-play technology foundry that offers advanced semiconductor development and manufacturing services from our fabrication facility, or fab, in Minnesota and advanced packaging services from our Florida facility. Our Technology-as-a-Service model leverages a foundation of proprietary technology, engineering know-how capabilities, and microelectronics manufacturing capacity to co-develop process technology intellectual property (IP) with our customers that enables disruptive concepts through our Advanced Technology Services (ATS) for diverse microelectronics (integrated circuits (ICs)) and related micro- and nanotechnology applications. In addition to differentiated technology development services, we support customers with volume production of ICs for high-growth markets through our Wafer Services. The combination of semiconductor development and manufacturing services we provide our customers is not available to them from a conventional fab. In addition, we believe our status as a publicly-traded, U.S.-based, U.S. headquartered pure-play technology foundry with Defense Microelectronics Activity Category 1A Trusted Accreditation from the U.S. Department of Defense positions us well to provide distinct, competitive advantages to our customers. These advantages include the benefits of enhanced IP security and secure access to a U.S. domestic supply chain. We primarily focus on serving diversified, high-growth end users in numerous vertical markets, including (1) advanced compute, (2) aerospace and defense, (3) automotive, (4) bio-health, and (5) industrial. By housing both development and manufacturing in a single operation, we rapidly and efficiently transition newly-developed processes to high-yielding volume production, eliminating the time it would otherwise take to transfer production to a third-party fab. Through our ATS model, we specialize in co-creating advanced solutions with our customers that directly serve our end markets, such as infrared imaging, superconducting ICs for quantum computing and sensing, Rad-hard complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS), integrated photonics, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), technologies for biomedical and imaging applications, and advanced packaging. Our Wafer Services include the manufacture of silicon-based analog and mixed-signal ICs for our end markets. Our focus on the differentiated analog and CMOS markets supports long product life-cycles and requirements that value performance over cost-efficiencies, and leverages our portfolio IP. Before we began independent operations, our Minnesota fab was owned and operated by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (Cypress) as a captive manufacturing facility for 26 years. We have leveraged Cypress systems, manufacturing technology, and process development capabilities to advance our product offerings. We became an independent company in 2017 when we were acquired by an affiliate of Oxbow Industries, LLC (Oxbow Industries) as part of a divestiture from Cypress. Our multi-year foundry services agreement with Cypress, which ended in 2020, created a runway for us to operate the foundry at a high utilization rate while continuing to expand and diversify the customer base transferred by Cypress. Cypress was acquired in 2020 by Infineon Technologies AG. 24 Table of Contents Factors and Trends Affecting our Business and Results of Operations The following trends and uncertainties either affected our financial performance during the first quarters of 2024 and 2023 or are reasonably likely to impact our results in the future. Macroeconomic and competitive conditions, including cyclicality and consolidation, as well as government funding in semiconductor technology and manufacturing, create unique challenges and opportunities for the semiconductor industry and SkyWater. In August 2022, the U.S. enacted the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors and Science Act of 2022 (the CHIPS Act) pursuant to which the United States has committed to a renewed focus on providing incentives and funding for onshore companies to develop and advance the latest semiconductor technologies, supporting onshore manufacturing capabilities, and on strengthening key onshore supply chains. The CHIPS Act authorizes the U.S. Department of Commerce to enable execution of awards under the CHIPS Act and provides $52.7 billion for American semiconductor research, development, manufacturing, and workforce development, including $39 billion in financial assistance to build, expand, or modernize domestic facilities and equipment for semiconductor fabrication, assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or research and development. In December 2023, we submitted an application to the CHIPS Program Office of the U.S. Department of Commerce for funding through the CHIPS and Science Act for modernization and equipment upgrades to enhance production at our Minnesota facility. We project customer-funded capital investment to be a significant driver of the success of our business model, as we expect customers to invest in our capabilities and enable us to develop technology platforms that will drive our future growth. Our overall level of indebtedness from our revolving credit agreement, which we refer to as the Revolver (as defined below and in Note 6 Debt), financing arising from the sale and leaseback of the land and building of our Minnesota facility, which we refer to as the VIE Financing, financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment, which we refer to as the Tool Financing Loans, and the corresponding interest rates charged to us by our lenders, are key components of maintaining capital funding that allow us to continue to grow our business. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: Revenue and gross profit; and Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted (adjusted EBITDA), which is a financial measure not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), that excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial measure, see the section entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measure below. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations First Quarter of 2024 Compared to the First Quarter of 2023 The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to our operating results for the first quarter of 2024 and 2023. First Quarter Ended Percentage Change March 31, 2024 April 2, 2023 (in thousands) Consolidated statement of operations data: Revenue $ 79,636 $ 66,094 20 % Cost of revenue 66,656 49,626 34 % Gross profit 12,980 16,468 (21) % Research and development expense 4,012 2,668 50 % Selling, general, and administrative expense 11,169 14,895 (25) % Operating loss (2,201) (1,095) 101 % Interest expense (2,390) (2,471) (3) % Loss before income taxes (4,591) (3,566) 29 % Income tax expense 41 100 % Net loss (4,632) (3,566) 30 % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,097 707 55 % Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (5,729) $ (4,273) 34 % Revenue Revenue was $79.6 million for the first quarter of 2024 compared to $66.1 million for the first quarter of 2023, an increase of $13.5 million, or 20%. The increase in revenue was driven by an increase in ATS development revenue and tools revenue. The following table shows revenue by service type for the first quarter of 2024 and 2023: First Quarter Ended March 31, 2024 April 2, 2023 (in thousands) ATS development $ 61,185 $ 47,770 Tools 8,459 536 Wafer Services 9,992 17,788 Total $ 79,636 $ 66,094 ATS development revenue increased $13.4 million, or 28%, from the first quarter of 2023 to the first quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily due to continued momentum in U.S. government programs to bolster the domestic semiconductor supply chain and strengthen the defense industrial base, as well as an increase in activity in the cloud and computing end market. Tools revenue increased $7.9 million from the first quarter of 2023 to the first quarter of 2024 driven by increased investment by our customers to acquire tools that advance our capabilities for their ATS development programs. The decrease in Wafer Services revenue of $7.8 million, or 44%, from the first quarter of 2023 to the first quarter of 2024 was primarily driven by decreased activity for automotive and bio-health customers. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased $17.0 million to $66.7 million for the first quarter of 2024 from $49.6 million for the first quarter of 2023. The increase was primarily driven by increased cost to procure tools on behalf of our customers to advance our capabilities for their ATS development programs, in addition to $8.0 million incurred during the first quarter of 2024 reflecting the anticipated additional costs for us to complete certain development milestones for a significant aerospace and defense program that we expect will generate a loss on the contract. 26 Table of Contents Research and development expense Research and development expense increased $1.3 million to $4.0 million for the first quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily due to increased spending on platform development. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased to $11.2 million for the first quarter of 2024, from $14.9 million for the first quarter of 2023. The decrease of $3.7 million was primarily attributable to $2.2 million of bad debt expense recorded in the first quarter of 2023 that did not occur in the first quarter of 2024. Interest expense Interest expense decreased to $2.4 million for the first quarter of 2024 from $2.5 million for the first quarter of 2023. The decrease of $0.1 million was primarily the result of decreased amounts outstanding under the Revolver and a lower average interest rate in the first quarter of 2024 as compared to the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by increased interest expense on tool financing loans. Income tax expense Income tax expense was $0.0 million for the first quarter of 2024 compared to income tax expense of $0.0 million for the first quarter of 2023. The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2024 was (0.9)%, compared to an effective income tax rate of 0.0% for the first quarter of 2023. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased to $1.1 million for the first quarter of 2024 from $0.7 million for the first quarter of 2023. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the net income of Oxbow Realty, LLC (Oxbow Realty), the variable interest entity (VIE), that we consolidate and represents the economic interest in the profits and losses of the VIE that our common stock shareholders do not legally have rights or obligations to. The increase in the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily relates to increased interest income from Oxbow Realtys failed sale leaseback transaction with SkyWater. 27 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our ability to execute our operating strategy is dependent on our ability to maintain liquidity and continue to access capital through our Revolver (as defined in Note 6 Debt to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements) and other sources of financing. Our current business plans indicate that we may require additional liquidity to continue our operations and maintain compliance with financial covenants for the next twelve months from the date the interim condensed consolidated financial statements are issued. We have identified specific actions that we could take to reduce operating costs and improve cash flows, including reductions in spending and delays in hiring personnel. If such actions are taken, it may require us to decrease our level of planned investment in new products and technologies, or discontinue further expansion of our business. We have also obtained a support letter from Oxbow Industries, an affiliate of our principal stockholder, to provide funding in an amount up to $12.5 million, if necessary, to enable us to meet our obligations as they become due. The support letter expires March 18, 2026. Based upon our operational forecasts, our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our available borrowings on the Revolver, potential cost reduction measures we could take, and the support letter from Oxbow Industries, as needed, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the date the interim condensed consolidated financial statements are issued. Additionally, we could seek additional equity or debt financing, including a refinancing and/or expansion of the Revolver. However, we cannot provide any assurance that additional funds will be available when needed, or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Our ability to access additional funds depend on prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us. We had $19.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, not including cash held by a VIE that we consolidate, and availability under our Revolver of $62.7 million at March 31, 2024. We are subject to certain liquidity and EBITDA covenants under our Loan Agreement, as outlined in the section below entitled Indebtedness. ATM Program For the first quarter of 2024, SkyWater did not sell shares under the ATM Program (as defined in Note 8 Shareholders Equity). From the date of the ATM Program through the first quarter of 2024, the Company has cumulatively sold 2.5 million shares under the ATM Program at an average sale price of $9.96 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $25.1 million before deducting sales commissions and fees of approximately $1.2 million. SkyWater used the net proceeds to fund its operations. Capital Expenditures For the first quarters of 2024 and 2023, we spent approximately $4.1 million and $4.9 million, respectively, on capital expenditures, including purchases of property, equipment and software. The majority of these capital expenditures relate to improvements at our Minnesota facility and the development of our advanced packaging capabilities at our Center for NeoVation in Florida. We anticipate our cash on hand and the availability under the Revolver will provide the funds needed to meet our customer demand and anticipated capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2024. We have approximately $8.4 million of contractual commitments relating to various anticipated capital expenditures outstanding at March 31, 2024 that we expect to pay during the remainder of 2024 through cash on hand and operating cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Working Capital Historically, we have depended on cash on hand, funds available under our Revolver and, in the future, we may need to depend on additional debt and equity financings to fund our growth strategy, working capital needs, and capital expenditures. We believe that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide cash, as required, to support our strategy, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, lease obligations, and working capital for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain future debt or equity financings on commercially reasonable terms sufficient to meet our cash requirements. At March 31, 2024, the outstanding balance of our Revolver was $30.4 million, and our remaining availability under the Revolver was $62.7 million. As of March 31, 2024, we were in compliance with applicable financial covenants of the Revolver and expect to be in compliance with applicable financial covenants over the next twelve months. The following table sets forth general information derived from our interim condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the first quarter of 2024 and 2023: First Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 April 2, 2023 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,924) $ (11,086) Net cash used in investing activities $ (2,070) $ (3,064) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 7,614 $ (2,035) Cash and Cash Equivalents At March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we had $20.0 million and $18.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. A discussion of the change in cash and cash equivalents can be found below. Operating Activities Cash flow from operations is driven by changes in the working capital needs associated with the various goods and services we provide, and expenses related to the infrastructure in place to support revenue generation. Working capital is primarily affected by changes in accounts receivable, contract assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and contract liabilities, all of which are partially correlated to and impacted by changes in the timing and volume of activities performed in our facilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $3.9 million during the first quarter of 2024, a decrease of $7.2 million from $11.1 million of cash used in operating activities during the first quarter of 2023. The decrease in cash used in operating activities during the first quarter of 2024 was driven primarily by a decrease in accounts receivable and contract assets of $12.9 million as a result of the timing of cash receipts from customers against revenue earned on customer contracts, partially offset by a decrease in our accrued expenses of $10.9 million during the period due to the timing of the payment of amounts owed to our vendors, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $8.0 million. Investing Activities Our investments in capital expenditures are intended to enable revenue growth in new and expanding markets, help us meet product demand, and increase our manufacturing efficiencies and capacity. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.1 million during the first quarter of 2024, a decrease of $1.0 million from $3.1 million during the first quarter of 2023. The decrease in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2024 reflects decreased capital spending on property and equipment compared to the same period in 2023. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $7.6 million during the first quarter of 2024 from net cash used in financing activities of $2.0 million during the first quarter of 2023. The increase in net cash provided by financing activities during the first quarter of 2024 was primarily driven by the net draws on our Revolver of $8.6 million. 29 Table of Contents Indebtedness Sale Leaseback Transaction In 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell the land and building of our Minnesota facility to Oxbow Realty, an affiliate of our principal stockholder, for $39.0 million, less applicable transaction costs of $1.5 million and transaction services fees paid to Oxbow Realty of $2.0 million, and paid a guarantee fee to our principal stockholder of $2.0 million. We subsequently entered into an agreement to leaseback the land and building from Oxbow Realty for initial payments of $0.4 million per month over 20 years. The monthly payments are subject to a 2% increase each year during the term of the lease. We are also required to make certain customary payments constituting additional rent, including certain monthly reserve, insurance, and tax payments, in accordance with the terms of the lease. Due to our continuing involvement in the property, we are accounting for the transactions as a failed sale leaseback. Under failed sale leaseback accounting, we are deemed the owner of the land and building with the proceeds received recorded as a financial obligation. Revolving Credit Agreement On December 28, 2022, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the Loan Agreement) with Siena Lending Group LLC (Siena). The Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $100.0 million with a scheduled maturity date of December 28, 2025 (the Revolver). The Company incurred $4.3 million of debt issuance costs, which will be amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Revolver. As of March 31, 2024, we had borrowings of $30.4 million under the Revolver. Borrowing under the Loan Agreement is limited by a borrowing base of specified advance rates applicable to billed accounts receivable, contract assets, inventory and equipment, subject to various conditions, limits and any availability block as provided in the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement also provides for borrowing base sublimits applicable to each of contract assets and equipment. Under certain circumstances, Siena may from time to time establish and revise reserves against the borrowing base and/or the maximum revolving facility amount. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate that depends upon the type of borrowing, whether a term secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) loan or base rate loan, plus the applicable margin. The term SOFR loan rate is a forward-looking term rate based on SOFR for a tenor of one month on the applicable day, subject to a minimum of 2.5% per annum. The base rate is the greatest of the prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 0.5% and 7.0% per annum. The applicable margin is an applicable percentage based on the fix charged coverage ratio that ranges from 5.25% to 6.25% per annum for term SOFR loans and ranges from 4.25% to 5.25% per annum for base rate loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and financial and other covenants and conditions. Subject to certain cure rights, the Loan Agreement requires $10.0 million in minimum EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement) calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, prohibits unfunded capital expenditures in excess of $15.0 million calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, and requires a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, measured on a trailing twelve month basis, of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 if our liquidity is less than $15.0 million. In addition, the Loan Agreement places certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness (other than permitted indebtedness), to create liens or other encumbrances (other than liens relating to permitted indebtedness), to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, to merge or consolidate with other entities, and to make certain restricted payments, including payments of dividends to our stockholders. As of March 31, 2024, we were in compliance with applicable covenants of the Loan Agreement and expect to continue to be in compliance with applicable financial covenants over the next twelve months. Due to a lockbox clause in the Loan Agreement, the outstanding loan balance is required to be serviced with working capital, and the debt is classified as short-term on the interim condensed consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Tool Financing Loans We, from time to time, enter into financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment. These agreements include bargain purchase options at the end of the lease terms which the Company intends to exercise. These transactions represent failed sale leasebacks with the associated equipment recorded in property and equipment, net and the proceeds received, net of scheduled repayments of the financings, recorded as debt on the Companys interim condensed consolidated balance sheets. Advance payments made to tool vendors by financing lenders on the Companys behalf totaled $4.7 million and $3.8 million as of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. When the financed tools are placed into service, the Company anticipates financing agreements will be executed to repay the lender the outstanding financial liability over a period of time. The advance payments are recorded as short-term financing on the Companys interim condensed consolidated balance sheets. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations There were no significant changes outside the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Material Cash Requirements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status We qualify as an emerging growth company pursuant to the provisions of the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory say-on-pay votes on executive compensation, and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. The JOBS Act also permits an emerging growth company like us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards on a non-delayed basis. We are also a smaller reporting company. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Specifically, as a smaller reporting company we may choose to present only the two most recent fiscal years of audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and, similar to emerging growth companies, smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In connection with preparing our interim condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expense, and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends, and other factors that management believes are relevant at the time we prepared our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our interim condensed consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ materially from our assumptions and estimates. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, valuation of inventory, equity-based compensation, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 31 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure Our interim condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement our interim condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, an additional non-GAAP financial measure is provided and reconciled in the table below. We provide supplemental non-GAAP financial information that our management regularly evaluates to provide additional insight to investors as supplemental information to our U.S. GAAP results. Our management uses adjusted EBITDA to make informed operating decisions, complete strategic planning, prepare annual budgets, and evaluate the Companys and our managements performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it provides a baseline for analyzing trends in our business and excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results. The use of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, the comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In addition, because this non-GAAP financial measure is not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, other companies, including our peers, may calculate their non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do. As a result, the non-GAAP financial measure presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is not a financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We define adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income before interest expense, income tax (benefit) expense, depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation, and certain other items that we do not view as indicative of our ongoing performance, including net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. We believe adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it allows for an effective evaluation of our operating performance when compared to other companies, including our peers, without regard to financing methods or capital structures. We exclude the items listed above from net income or loss in arriving at adjusted EBITDA because these amounts can vary substantially within our industry depending on the accounting methods and policies used, book values of assets, capital structures, and the methods by which assets were acquired. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain items excluded from adjusted EBITDA are significant components in understanding and assessing a companys financial performance, such as a companys cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic costs of depreciable assets, none of which are reflected in adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indication that our results will be unaffected by the items excluded from adjusted EBITDA. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, unless otherwise expressly indicated. 32 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA, our most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. First Quarter Ended March 31, 2024 April 2, 2023 (in thousands) Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (5,729) $ (4,273) Interest expense 2,390 2,471 Income tax expense 41 Depreciation and amortization 5,065 7,352 EBITDA 1,767 5,550 Equity-based compensation(1) 2,072 1,853 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (2) 1,097 707 Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,936 $ 8,110 __________________ (1)Represents non-cash equity-based compensation expense. (2)Represents net income attributable to our VIE, which was formed for the purpose of purchasing the land and building of our operating facility in Bloomington, Minnesota headquarters. Since depreciation and interest expense are excluded from net loss in our adjusted EBITDA financial measure, we also exclude the net income attributable to the VIE. 33 Table of Contents