Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. These and other factors could cause results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in the estimates made by the independent parties and by us. 3 Table of Contents In this document, the words we, our, ours and us refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries and not any other person or entity. In addition, the following industry standards are referenced throughout the document: CATV (Cable Television): a system of providing television to consumers via radio frequency signals transmitted to televisions through fixed optical fibers or coaxial cables as opposed to the over-the-air method used in traditional television broadcasting CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access): a method for transmitting simultaneous signals over a shared portion of the Radio Frequency (RF) spectrum EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution): an enhancement to the GSM and TDMA wireless communications systems that increases data throughput to 474Kbps GPRS (General Packet Radio Service): an enhancement to the GSM mobile communications system that supports transmission of data packets GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications): a digital cellular phone technology based on TDMA that is the predominant system in Europe, and is also used around the world LTE (Long Term Evolution): 4th generation (4G) radio technologies designed to increase the capacity and speed of mobile telephone networks RFID (Radio Frequency Identification): refers to the use of an electronic tag (typically referred to as an RFID tag) for the purpose of identification and tracking objects using radio waves Satcom (Satellite Communications): where a satellite stationed in space is used for the purpose of telecommunications TD-SCDMA (Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access): a 3G (third generation wireless services) mobile communications standard, being pursued in the Peoples Republic of China WCDMA (Wideband CDMA): a 3G technology that increases data transmission rates WEDGE: an acronym for technologies that support both WCDMA and EDGE wireless communication systems WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access): a standards-based technology enabling the delivery of last mile wireless broadband access as an alternative to cable and DSL WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network): a type of local-area network that uses high-frequency radio waves rather than wires to communicate between nodes Skyworks, Breakthrough Simplicity, the star design logo, Intera and Trans-Tech are trademarks or registered trademarks of Skyworks Solutions, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other countries. All other brands and names listed are trademarks of their respective companies. PART l ITEM 1. BUSINESS Skyworks Solutions, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, (Skyworks or the Company) is an innovator of high reliability analog and mixed signal semiconductors. Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks offers diverse standard and custom linear products supporting automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, energy management, industrial, medical, military and cellular handset applications. The Companys portfolio includes amplifiers, attenuators, detectors, diodes, directional couplers, front-end modules, hybrids, infrastructure RF 4 Table of Contents subsystems, mixers/demodulators, phase shifters, PLLs/synthesizers/VCOs, power dividers/combiners, receivers, switches and technical ceramics. We have aligned our product portfolio around two broad markets: cellular handsets and analog semiconductors. In general, our handset portfolio includes highly customized power amplifiers and front-end solutions that are in many of todays cellular devices, from entry level to multimedia platforms and smart phones. Some of our primary handset customers include LG Electronics, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Research in Motion, and HTC. Our competitors include Avago Technologies, RF Micro Devices and Triquint Semiconductor. In parallel, we offer over 2,500 different catalog and custom linear products to a highly diversified non-handset customer base. Our customers include infrastructure, automotive, energy management, medical and military providers such as Huawei, Ericsson, Landis + Gyr, Sensus, Itron, Siemens, and Northrop Grumman. Our competitors in the linear products markets include Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear Technology and Maxim Integrated Products. Headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts, the Company is a Delaware corporation that was formed in 1962. The Company changed its corporate name from Alpha Industries, Inc. to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. on June 25, 2002, following a business combination. We have worldwide operations with engineering, manufacturing, sales and service facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America. Our Internet address is www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our Website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit such material to the SEC. The information contained in our Website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. You may read and copy materials that we have filed with the SEC at the SEC public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SECs Internet Website at www.sec.gov. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND We believe there are several key growth trends shaping the wireless industry. First is the advent of the mobile Internet, where consumers are increasingly demanding mobile devices with faster data rates, advanced image quality and improved Web connections. We believe this demand is one of the biggest secular growth trends in technology. On the high-end of the cellular handset market, the smart phone growth - which is at the heart of the mobile Internet phenomenon - is fostering this industry wide sea change. In effect, the smart phone is moving from a higher end tool reserved for the corporate executive to an increasingly mainstream communication platform necessity - one that is changing the way in which we live, work and play. Social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter are only fueling this trend. Furthermore, this segment is being embraced and widely promoted by carriers who benefit from the highly profitable data services revenue stream as subscribers move to enhanced data plans. The increased presence of multimedia-rich mobile devices has led manufacturers to recognize the increasingly important role multimode Front-End Modules (FEM) play in the rapidly evolving wireless handset market, particularly as the industry migrates to 3G and 4G technologies which enable applications such as Web browsing, video streaming, gaming, MP3 players and cameras. Next-generation EDGE, WEDGE and WCDMA wireless platforms are now being used in the majority of the more than one billion cellular phones the industry produces annually which results in increasing complexity in the FEM because each new wireless platform and operating frequency band requires additional amplifier, filtering and switching content to support: backward compatibility to existing networks, simultaneous transmission of voice and data, international roaming, and 5 Table of Contents broadband functionality to accommodate music, video, data, and other multimedia features. Further, given constraints on handset size and power consumption, these complex FEMs must remain physically small, energy efficient and cost effective, while also managing an unprecedented level of potential signal interference within the handset. Finally, and a direct result of this increasing FEM complexity, the addressable semiconductor content within the transmit and receive chain portion of the mobile device is increasing. We believe this trend is creating an incremental market opportunity measured in the billions of dollars as switching, filtering and wireless local area networking functionality are integrated. Meanwhile, outside of the handset market, wireless technologies and the opportunity for applications for analog semiconductor products are also rapidly proliferating. According to Gartner, a leading independent market research firm, the total available market for the analog semiconductor segment is expected to exceed $18 billion in 2014. Today, this adjacent analog semiconductor market, which is characterized by longer product lifecycles and relatively high gross margins, is fragmented and diversified among various end-markets, customer bases and applications including: Infrastructure Automotive CATV/Satcom Smart Energy Medical Military RFID Test & Measurement WiMAX WLAN SKYWORKS STRATEGY Skyworks mission is to achieve mobile connectivity leadership through semiconductor innovation. Key elements in our strategy include: Diversifying Our Business By leveraging our core analog and mixed signal technology, Skyworks is able to deliver solutions to a broad and diverse set of end markets and customers. In the handset market, we currently support all top tier handset manufacturers as well as the leading smart phone suppliers, and have strategic relationships with each key baseband supplier. In non-handset markets, we continue to take advantage of our catalog business, intellectual property and worldwide distribution network, to bolster our product pipeline and expand our addressable markets beyond the approximately 1,000 global customers and 2,500 analog components currently marketed. 6 Table of Contents Diversifying our Business Gaining Market Share Our customer engagements are increasingly centered on solving highly complex multimode, multiband, switching, filtering, digital control and amplification challenges system-level requirements which intersect with Skyworks core competencies. Skyworks continues to invest in developing architectures which optimize power efficiency while minimizing cost and footprint, which we believe will allow us to meet our customers demanding next-generation technology requirements as well as stringent quality standards and manufacturing scale necessities. Capitalizing on Content Growth in Third and Fourth Generation Applications As the industry migrates to multi-mode EDGE, WEDGE, WCDMA and LTE architectures across a multitude of wireless broadband applications, RF complexity in the transmit and receive chain substantially increases given simultaneous voice and high speed data communications requirements, coupled with the need for backward compatibility to existing networks. As a result of this complexity in the FEM, we believe that our addressable market is increasing significantly. Delivering Operational Excellence Skyworks strategy is to either vertically integrate our supply chain where we can differentiate or otherwise enter alliances and strategic relationships for leading-edge capabilities. This hybrid manufacturing approach allows us to better balance external capacity with the demands of the marketplace. Internally, our capacity utilization remains high and we are therefore able to maintain margins and our return on invested capital on a broader range of revenues. We continue to focus on achieving the industrys shortest cycle times, highest yields and ultimately lowest product cost structure. 7 Table of Contents SKYWORKS PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Our product portfolio consists of: Amplifiers : the modules that strengthen the signal so that it has sufficient energy to reach a base station Attenuators: circuits that allow a known source of power to be reduced by a predetermined factor (usually expressed as decibels) Detectors: intended for use in power management applications Diodes: semiconductor devices that pass current in one direction only Directional Couplers: transmission coupling devices for separately sampling the forward or backward wave in a transmission line Front-End Modules : power amplifiers that are integrated with switches, diplexers, filters and other components to create a single package front-end solution Hybrid: a type of directional coupler used in radio and telecommunications Infrastructure RF Subsystems: highly integrated transceivers and power amplifiers for wireless base station applications MIS Silicon Chip Capacitors: used in applications requiring DC blocking and RF bypassing, or as a fixed capacitance tuning element in filters, oscillators, and matching networks Mixers/Demodulators: integrated, high-dynamic range, zero IF architecture downconverter for use in wireless communication applications Modulators: designed for direct modulation of high frequency AM, PM or compound carriers Phase Locked Loops (PLL): closed-loop feedback control system that maintains a generated signal in a fixed phase relationship to a reference signal Phase Shifters: designed for use in power amplifier distortion compensation circuits in base station applications Power Dividers/Combiners: utilized to equally split signals into in-phase signals as often found in balanced signal chains and local oscillator distribution networks Receivers: electronic devices that change a radio signal from a transmitter into useful information Switches: components that perform the change between the transmit and receive function, as well as the band function for cellular handsets Synthesizers: provides ultra-fine frequency resolution, fast switching speed, and low phase-noise performance Technical Ceramics: polycrystalline oxide materials used for a wide variety of electrical, mechanical, thermal and magnetic applications Transceivers: devices that have both a transmitter and a receiver which are combined and share common circuitry or a single housing VCOs/Synthesizers: fully integrated, high performance signal source for high dynamic range transceivers 8 Table of Contents We believe we possess broad technology capabilities and one of the most complete wireless communications product portfolios in the industry. THE SKYWORKS ADVANTAGE By turning complexity into simplicity, we provide our customers with the following competitive advantages: Broad front-end module and precision analog product portfolio Technology leadership in power amplifier and FEM product segments Solutions for key air interface standards, including CDMA2000, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, LTE, WCDMA, WLAN and WiMAX Engagements with a diverse set of top-tier customers Analog, RF and mixed signal design capabilities Strategic partnerships with all leading baseband providers Access to key process technologies: GaAs HBT, pHEMT, BiCMOS, SiGE, CMOS, RF CMOS, and silicon World-class manufacturing capabilities and scale High level of customer service and technical support Commitment to technology innovation MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team is globally deployed across all of our major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales effort with independent manufacturers representatives, assuring broader coverage of territories and customers. We also utilize distribution partners, some of which are franchised globally with others focused in specific regional markets (e.g., Europe, North America, China and Taiwan). We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for developing sales and advertising literature, print media, such as product announcements and catalogs, as well as a variety of Web-based content. Skyworks sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a customer design. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the inception of new programs. This relationship allows our team to facilitate customer-driven solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our product portfolio while providing high value and greatly reducing time-to-market. We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an extraordinary commitment to maintain intimate ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we strive to expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering, manufacturing, purchasing and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in developing these relationships by combining the support of our design teams, applications engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management. We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to feedback, we are able to mobilize resources to raise our level of customer satisfaction, improve our ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market dynamics. We are confident that diligence in following this path will position Skyworks to participate in numerous opportunities for growth in the future. 9 Table of Contents REVENUES FROM AND DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION For information regarding customer concentration and revenues from external customers, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS We own and are licensed under numerous United States and foreign patents and patent applications related to our products, our manufacturing operations and processes, and other activities. In addition, we own a number of trademarks and service marks applicable to certain of our products and services. We believe that intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trade secrets and trademarks are of material importance to our business. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our confidential and proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms and processes. We cannot guarantee that these efforts will meaningfully protect our intellectual property, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technologies, devices, algorithms or processes. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available in those jurisdictions. In addition to protecting our proprietary technologies and processes, we strive to strengthen our intellectual property portfolio to enhance our ability to obtain cross-licenses of intellectual property from others, to obtain access to intellectual property we do not possess and to more favorably resolve potential intellectual property claims against us. Furthermore we seek to generate high gross margin revenue through the sale and license of non-core intellectual property and occasionally purchase intellectual property to support our core business. Due to rapid technological changes in the industry, we believe that establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position depends primarily on our ability to develop new innovative products through the technical competence of our engineering personnel. COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, overall product quality and performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers and baseband vendors, and protection of our intellectual property. Certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances. Recognizing the importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high level of research and development activities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. We focus our development efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing leveraging our core technologies. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source of supply unless market or other conditions dictate otherwise. Consequently, there are limited situations where we procure certain components and services for our products from single or limited sources. We purchase materials and services primarily pursuant to individual purchase orders. However, we have a limited number of long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Certain of our suppliers consign raw materials to us at our manufacturing facilities. We request these raw materials and take title to them as they are needed in our manufacturing process. We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world. 10 Table of Contents BACKLOG AND INVENTORY Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products, with such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. We also maintain Skyworks-owned finished goods inventory at certain customer hub locations. We do not recognize revenue until these customers consume the Skyworks-owned inventory from these hub locations. Due to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance notice to us prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Most of our customers have mandated that our products comply with local and regional lead free and other green initiatives. We believe that our current expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection, and other expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements. SEASONALITY Sales of our products are subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in end-user consumer applications, such as cellular handsets. The highest demand for our handset products generally occurs in the calendar quarter ending in December. The lowest demand for our handset products generally occurs in the calendar quarter ending in March. GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION For information regarding net revenues by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The majority of our tangible long lived assets are located in the United States of America and Mexico (see Note 18 of Item 8). Risks attendant to our foreign operations are discussed in Item 1A-Risk Factors. EMPLOYEES As of October 1, 2010, we employed approximately 3,700 persons. Approximately 450 of our employees in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results from operations. We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. We operate primarily in the wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. Since late 2008, uncertain economic conditions worldwide, together with other factors such as the continued volatility of the financial markets, have made it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. 11 Table of Contents Although we believe that the market for wireless communications semiconductor products has stabilized, continued uncertainty and economic weakness could result in another market contraction and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. Such periods of industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand and revenues, manufacturing overcapacity, excess inventory levels, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and restructuring and/or impairment charges. Furthermore, downturns in the wireless communications semiconductor industry may be prolonged, and any extended delay or failure of the wireless semiconductor market to recover from an economic downturn would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations beyond our current fiscal year. Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly on a quarterly and annual basis in prior fiscal years and our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: changes in end-user demand for the products (principally cellular handsets) manufactured and sold by our customers, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, new product and technology introductions by competitors, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, market acceptance of our products and our customers, our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core intellectual property, and intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets, uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, 12 Table of Contents our performance and prospects, the performance and prospects of our major customers, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate, changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, and domestic and international political conditions. Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility significantly and negatively affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies, including the market price of our common stock in late 2008 and early 2009. The return of such volatility could result in broad market fluctuations that could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in future periods. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. Our company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time. The wireless communications semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and rapid loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are very competitive. We compete with United States and international semiconductor manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including Avago Technologies, RF Micro Devices and Triquint Semiconductor. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share. Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others: rapid time-to-market and product ramp, timely new product innovation, product quality, reliability and performance, product price, features available in products, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers, access to and protection of intellectual property, and 13 Table of Contents maintaining access to raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost. We might not be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our competitors enjoy the benefit of: long presence in key markets, brand recognition, high levels of customer satisfaction, ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources. As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner. The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. The successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including: the ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards, the ability to obtain capacity sufficient to meet customer demand, the ability to define new products that meet customer and market requirements, the ability to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis, the ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors, overall market acceptance of our products, the length of time that a particular product is in demand, and the ability to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products. Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems, or IT Systems. 14 Table of Contents We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market growth. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our products may not satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or we may not be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also may not be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products interface. If we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities that meet our customers requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely harmed. In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. Our products may become obsolete earlier than planned or may not have life cycles long enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. Accordingly, we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We may not be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain competitive. If Original Equipment Manufactures, or OEMs and Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without these design wins, we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs another suppliers product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially successful, or for any other reason. We may not continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including due to causes beyond our control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our business. Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may result from electrical power outages, fire, 15 Table of Contents earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or upgrades. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external manufacturing or similar arrangements with others. Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and liability claims. Although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have been shipped, and we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. The potential liabilities associated with these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are capped at significant amounts, or are uncapped. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other obligations under customer contracts, which may adversely impact our operating results. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and we could be subject to liability claims, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our gross margin and profitability. Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including: the lack of wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices, limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality assurance, and the inaccessibility of, or delays in, obtaining access to, key process technologies. 16 Table of Contents Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing capacity, the third-party foundries we use for our standby manufacturing capacity may allocate their limited capacity to the production requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could impair our ability to meet our customers needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above. We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components. Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. Although we maintain relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components, as well as increased demand for commodities in general, can result in tighter supplies and higher costs. Our suppliers may not be able to meet our delivery schedules, we may lose a significant or sole supplier, a supplier may not be able to meet performance and quality specifications and we may not be able to purchase such supplies or material at a competitive cost. If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source supplier for epitaxial wafers used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facilities. If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is obtained. To the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated. Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In fiscal year 2010, the Company had three customers, each with greater than ten percent of our net revenues: Samsung, Nokia and Foxconn. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our business. 17 Table of Contents As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry, and therefore we may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock, given among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and our competitors. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team or if our senior management team is unable to effectively implement our strategy. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, none of whom is bound by a written employment contract to remain with us for a specified period. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products. After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold products if the product is defective. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in demand or for any other reason, the customers ability to make timely payments to us for non-returnable products could be impaired. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us from using our technology. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other 18 Table of Contents intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology or refrain from using it. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the merits of any specific claim, we may not prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to: pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes, discontinue the use of infringing technology, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our operating results or financial condition may be materially adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to take any one or more of the foregoing actions. In addition, if another supplier to one of our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing product(s) or process(es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from our customers for our products. If such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business could be adversely affected. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain competitive. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot be assured that: 19 Table of Contents the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties will be successful, any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries. We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own packaging, assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: currency exchange rate fluctuations, including changes in commodities prices related to such fluctuations, local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability, disruptions of capital and trading markets, inability to collect accounts receivable, restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import or export controls and tariffs), changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war, limitations on the repatriation of funds, difficulty in obtaining distribution and support, cultural differences in the conduct of business, the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements, 20 Table of Contents changes in current or future tax law or regulations or new interpretations thereof, by federal or state agencies or foreign governments could adversely affect our results of operations, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of our overall profitability and mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates and the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, and limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction. Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in cellular handset prices that negatively impact handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea, Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it. To the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to fund our future activities or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital market conditions exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). Failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our business may require additional capital resources. The capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions may not be available in the future. Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. On October 1, 2010, we had total indebtedness of approximately $74.7 million, which represented approximately 5.4% of our total capitalization. As of October 1, 2010, we have short-term debt of $50.0 million under the credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Credit Facility). Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility expired in October 2010 and, given our strong cash position, management has determined that the Credit Facility is no longer required and accordingly, has been substantially repaid as of November 29, 2010. Also as of October 1, 2010, we have long-term debt obligations of $26.7 million in aggregate principal value ($24.7 million carrying value) that mature in March 2012, which are described in more detail in Note 9 to Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may require additional financing prior to the maturity of such debt. Our indebtedness could have negative consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, requiring the dedication of a portion of any cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, 21 Table of Contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete, and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. Our foundries may not be able to effectively manage the transition or we may not be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce our products. The electronics industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. For example, the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) Directive now requires that certain substances which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. Eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. Current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. The amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives. Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts. Although we manufacture and sell silicon-based power amplifiers, if we do not continue to offer GaAs products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We may not continue to identify products and markets that require performance attributes of gallium arsenide solutions. To be successful we may need to effect investments, alliances and acquisitions, and to integrate companies we acquire. Although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. We may not be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if such transactions are consummated, they could result in: issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders, large, one-time write-offs, the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities, the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns. Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition, we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of stockholders, 23 Table of Contents a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3 percent of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the election and removal of directors, the classified board or the right to act by written consent, a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of Board of Directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a fair price provision, and a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision. In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and have executive offices in Irvine, California. For information regarding property, plant and equipment by geographic region for each of the last two fiscal years, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table sets forth our principal facilities: Location Owned/Leased Square Footage Primary Function Woburn, Massachusetts Owned 158,000 Corporate headquarters and manufacturing Adamstown, Maryland Owned 146,100 Manufacturing and office space Newbury Park, California Owned 111,600 Manufacturing and office space Newbury Park, California Leased 108,400 Design center Irvine, California Leased 63,400 Office space and design center Cedar Rapids, Iowa Leased 28,500 Design center Mexicali, Mexico Owned 380,000 Manufacturing and office space 24 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental, product liability, safety and health, employment and contractual matters. Additionally, the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Companys financial condition, or results of operations. From time to time we are also involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. We believe that there is no pending litigation involving the Company that will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 4. REMOVED AND RESERVED. 25 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol SWKS. The following table sets forth the range of high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The number of stockholders of record of Skyworks common stock as of November 21, 2010, was approximately 29,000. High Low Fiscal year ended October 1, 2010: First quarter $ 14.30 $ 10.27 Second quarter 16.41 12.69 Third quarter 17.91 14.23 Fourth quarter 21.09 16.33 Fiscal year ended October 2, 2009: First quarter $ 7.51 $ 3.81 Second quarter 8.84 4.07 Third quarter 10.50 8.02 Fourth quarter 14.28 9.50 Skyworks has not paid cash dividends on its common stock and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. On August 3, 2010 the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $200 million of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The program will be funded using the Companys working capital and may be terminated at any time. During fiscal year 2010 the Company did not repurchase any shares under the program. The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made by us during the fiscal quarter ended October 1, 2010: Total Number of Shares Maximum Number (or Purchased as Part of Publicly Approximately Dollar Value) of Total Number of Average Price Paid Announced Plans or Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under Period Shares Purchased per Share Programs (2) the Plans or Programs (2) 7/03/10-7/30/10 N/A N/A 7/31/10-8/27/10 4,923 (1) $ 17.59 $200 million 8/28/10-10/01/10 $200 million (1) All shares of common stock reported in the table above were repurchased by Skyworks at the fair market value of the common stock as of the period stated above, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under stock agreements between Skyworks and certain of its employees. (2) On August 3, 2010, the Companys Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $200 million of the Companys common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. You should read the data set forth below in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation , and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal years 2010 and 2009 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, respectively. Fiscal 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on October 3, 2008. The following balance sheet data and statements of operations data for the five years ended October 1, 2010, were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. Consolidated balance sheets at October 1, 2010 and at October 2, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, stockholders equity and comprehensive income (loss) for each of the three fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, and notes thereto appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27 Table of Contents Fiscal Year (In thousands except per share data) 2010 (6) 2009 (6)(8) 2008 (6)(8) 2007 (6)(8) 2006 (6)(8) Statement of Operations Data: Net revenues $ 1,071,849 $ 802,577 $ 860,017 $ 741,744 $ 773,750 Cost of goods sold (1) 615,016 484,357 517,054 454,359 511,071 Gross profit 456,833 318,220 342,963 287,385 262,679 Operating expenses: Research and development 134,140 123,996 146,013 126,075 164,106 Selling, general and administrative (2) 117,853 100,421 100,007 94,950 135,801 Amortization of intangible assets (3) 6,136 6,118 6,005 2,144 2,144 Restructuring and other charges (4) (1,040 ) 15,982 567 5,730 26,955 Total operating expenses 257,089 246,517 252,592 228,899 329,006 Operating income (loss) 199,744 71,703 90,371 58,486 (66,327 ) Interest expense (4,246 ) (8,290 ) (16,324 ) (24,187 ) (26,929 ) (Loss) gain on early retirement of convertible debt (5) (79 ) 4,590 2,158 (6,964 ) (5,489 ) Other (loss) income, net (345 ) 1,753 5,983 11,438 8,921 Income (loss) before income taxes 195,074 69,756 82,188 38,773 (89,824 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (7) 57,780 (25,227 ) (28,818 ) (880 ) 15,378 Net income (loss) $ 137,294 $ 94,983 $ 111,006 $ 39,653 $ (105,202 ) Per share information: Net income (loss), basic $ 0.78 $ 0.57 $ 0.69 $ 0.25 $ (0.66 ) Net income (loss), diluted $ 0.75 $ 0.56 $ 0.67 $ 0.25 $ (0.66 ) Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 585,541 $ 393,884 $ 345,916 $ 316,808 $ 245,223 Total assets 1,564,052 1,352,591 1,235,371 1,188,834 1,090,002 Long-term liabilities 43,132 47,569 125,026 173,382 171,846 Stockholders equity 1,316,596 1,108,779 961,604 818,543 742,536 (1) During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we implemented a restructuring plan that reduced global headcount by approximately 4% or 150 employees. The total charges related to the plan were $19.4 million of which $3.5 million was charged to cost of goods sold for inventory write-downs. During fiscal year 2006, we recorded $23.3 million of inventory charges and reserves primarily related to the exit of our baseband product area. (2) During fiscal year 2006, we recorded bad debt expense of $35.1 million related to certain baseband customers. 28 Table of Contents (3) The increase in amortization expense in fiscal year 2008 is primarily due to the acquisitions completed in October 2007. (4) In fiscal year 2010, we recognized a gain of $1.0 million on the sale of an asset that was previously impaired during the 2009 restructuring noted below. In fiscal year 2009, we implemented a restructuring plan to reduce global headcount by approximately 4% or 150 employees. The total charges related to the plan were $19.4 million of which $16.0 million was charged to restructuring and other charges. This primarily consisted of $4.5 million related to severance and benefits, $5.6 million related to the impairment of long-lived assets, $2.1 million related to lease obligations, $2.3 million related to the impairment of technology licenses and design software and $1.5 million related to other charges. In fiscal year 2007, we recorded restructuring and other charges of $4.9 million related to the exit of the baseband product area. In fiscal year 2006, we recorded restructuring and other charges of $27.0 million related to the exit of our baseband product area. (5) In fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 we retired approximately $53.0 million, $57.9 million, and $62.4 million aggregate principal amount of our $200.0 million aggregate principal amount convertible subordinate notes due in March 2010 and March 2012 (the 2007 Convertible Notes), respectively. We recorded approximately $0.1 million loss relating to the early retirement in fiscal year 2010 and gains of $4.6 million and $2.2 million for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. In fiscal years 2007 and 2006 we retired approximately $130.0 million and $50.7 million aggregate principal balance of our 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due November 2007, respectively. We recognized losses of $7.0 million and $5.5 million on the early retirement of these notes for fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2006, respectively. (6) Fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, October 3, 2008, September 28, 2007 and September 29, 2006 included $40.7 million, $23.5 million, $23.2 million, $13.7 million and $14.2 million, respectively, of share-based compensation expense due to the adoption of the Statement of ASC 718- Compensation-Stock Compensation (ASC 718) . (7) Based on the Companys evaluation of the realizability of its United States net deferred tax assets through the generation of future taxable income, $38.6 million, $40.0 million and $15.0 million of the Companys valuation allowance was reversed during the fiscal years ended October 2, 2009, October 3, 2008 and September 28, 2007, respectively. For fiscal year 2009, the amount reversed consisted of $25.4 million recognized as income tax benefit, and $13.2 million recognized as a reduction to goodwill. For fiscal year 2008, the amount reversed consisted of $36.4 million recognized as income tax benefit, and $3.6 million recognized as a reduction to goodwill. For fiscal year 2007, the amount reversed consisted of $1.7 million recognized as income tax benefit, and $13.3 million recognized as a reduction to goodwill. (8) Effective October 3, 2009, the Company adopted ASC 470-20- Debt, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (ASC 470-20) in accordance with GAAP. The Companys financial statements and the accompanying footnotes for all prior periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective adoption of this new accounting principle. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially and adversely from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OVERVIEW Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, (Skyworks or the Company) is an innovator of high reliability analog and mixed signal semiconductors. Leveraging core technologies, Skyworks offers diverse standard and custom linear products supporting automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, energy management, industrial, medical, military and cellular handset applications. The Companys portfolio includes amplifiers, attenuators, detectors, diodes, directional couplers, front-end modules, hybrids, infrastructure RF subsystems, mixers/demodulators, phase shifters, PLLs/synthesizers/VCOs, power dividers/combiners, receivers, switches and technical ceramics. BUSINESS FRAMEWORK We have aligned our product portfolio around two broad markets: cellular handsets and analog semiconductors. In general, our handset portfolio includes highly customized power amplifiers and front-end solutions that are in many of todays cellular devices, from entry level to multimedia platforms and smart phones. Some of our primary handset customers include LG Electronics, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Research in Motion, and HTC. Our competitors include Avago Technologies, RF Micro Devices and Triquint Semiconductor. In parallel, we offer over 2,500 different catalog and custom linear products to a highly diversified non-handset customer base. Our customers include infrastructure, automotive, energy management, medical and military providers such as Huawei, Ericsson, Landis + Gyr, Sensus, Itron, Siemens, and Northrop Grumman. Our competitors in the linear products markets include Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear Technology and Maxim Integrated Products. BASIS OF PRESENTATION The Companys fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30. Fiscal years 2010 and 2009 each consisted of 52 weeks and ended on October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, respectively. Fiscal year 2008 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on October 3, 2008. Effective October 3, 2009, we adopted ASC 470-20- Debt, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (ASC 470-20) in accordance with GAAP. Our financial statements and the accompanying footnotes for all prior periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective adoption of this new accounting principle. 30 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 1, 2010, OCTOBER 2, 2009, AND OCTOBER 3, 2008. The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years below: 2010 2009 2008 Net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 57.4 60.4 60.1 Gross margin 42.6 39.6 39.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 12.5 15.4 17.0 Selling, general and administrative 11.0 12.5 11.6 Amortization of intangible assets 0.6 0.8 0.7 Restructuring and other charges (credits) (0.1 ) 2.0 0.1 Total operating expenses 24.0 30.7 29.4 Operating income 18.6 8.9 10.5 Interest expense (0.4 ) (1.0 ) (1.9 ) Loss on early retirement of convertible debt 0.0 0.6 0.2 Other income, net 0.0 0.2 0.7 Income before income taxes 18.2 8.7 9.5 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 5.4 (3.1 ) (3.4 ) Net income 12.8 % 11.8 % 12.9 % GENERAL During fiscal year 2010, certain key factors contributed to our overall results of operations and cash flows from operations. More specifically: According to some industry estimates, sales of smart phones and mobile internet devices are growing four times faster than traditional cellular handsets given consumers appetite for anytime, anywhere connectivity. We believe that this is the driving force behind the higher overall demand for our wireless semiconductor products that support mobile internet, wireless infrastructure, energy management and diversified analog applications. The increase in the overall market coupled with an increase in our market share are the primary drivers of the approximately 33.6% or $269.3 million year-over-year revenue growth. Gross profit increased by $138.6 million or 300 basis points to 42.6% of net revenue for the fiscal year ending October 1, 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase in gross profit in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net revenue is primarily the result of continued factory process and productivity enhancements, product end-to-end yield improvements, year-over-year material cost reductions, targeted capital expenditure investments, and the aforementioned increase in net revenues. Operating income increased by $128.0 million or 178.6% over the prior year to 18.6% of revenue for fiscal year 2010. The increase is primarily due to the aforementioned increases in net revenue and gross margin along with a higher degree of operating leverage as the Company maintained relatively constant operating expenditures. We generated $223.0 million in cash from operations during fiscal year 2010 resulting in a cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balance of $459.4 million at October 1, 2010. In fiscal year 2010, we retired $53.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Convertible Notes. These retirements reduced the remaining aggregate outstanding principal balance on our 2007 Convertible Notes to $26.7 million (carrying value of $24.7 million) resulting in a net cash position of $384.6 million at October 1, 2010. 31 Table of Contents NET REVENUES Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Net revenues $ 1,071,849 33.6 % $ 802,577 (6.7 )% $ 860,017 We market and sell our products directly to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) of communication electronic products, third-party Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors. We periodically enter into revenue generating arrangements that leverage our broad intellectual property portfolio by licensing or selling our non-core patents or other intellectual property. We anticipate continuing this intellectual property strategy in future periods. Overall revenues in fiscal year 2010 increased by $269.3 million, or 33.6%, from fiscal year 2009. This revenue increase was principally driven by market share gains and higher overall demand for our products used in mobile internet, wireless infrastructure, energy management and diversified analog applications. Overall revenues in fiscal year 2009 decreased by $57.4 million, or 6.7%, from fiscal year 2008. This revenue decline was principally due to a reduction in demand in our end markets as a result of adverse global macroeconomic conditions, in addition to our exit from certain product areas such as mobile transceivers in the second fiscal quarter of 2009. For information regarding net revenues by geographic region and customer concentration, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. GROSS PROFIT Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Gross profit $ 456,833 43.6 % $ 318,220 (7.2 )% $ 342,963 % of net revenues 42.6 % 39.6 % 39.9 % Gross profit represents net revenues less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and equity based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing. We increased our gross profit by $138.6 million for the fiscal year ending October 1, 2010 as compared to the prior fiscal year, resulting in a 300 basis point expansion in gross profit margin to 42.6%. This was principally the result of continued factory process and productivity enhancements, product end-to-end yield improvements, year-over-year material cost reductions, targeted capital expenditure investments and the aforementioned increase in net revenue. During fiscal 2010 we continued to benefit from higher contribution margins associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. We maintained relatively consistent gross profit margins of 39.6% for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 despite a year-over-year decrease in the overall revenue base between the two fiscal years. This was principally the result of aggressive year-over-year material cost reductions, yield improvements, leverage of our fixed costs and cost control measures including capacity management enhanced by the flexibility of our hybrid manufacturing model. Gross profit in aggregate dollars decreased by $24.7 million between fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008 primarily as the result of the aforementioned $57.4 million decrease in overall revenues. In fiscal year 2009, we continued to benefit from higher contribution margins associated with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property. 32 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Research and development $ 134,140 8.2 % $ 123,996 (15.1 )% $ 146,013 % of net revenues 12.5 % 15.4 % 17.0 % Research and development expenses consist principally of direct personnel costs, costs for pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, masks and engineering prototypes, equity based compensation expense and design and test tool costs. The 8.2% increase in research and development expenses in fiscal year 2010 when compared to fiscal year 2009 is principally attributable to higher head count and related compensation costs. In addition, the Company had ramped design activity resulting in higher mask, prototype and materials costs in support of increased product development for our target markets. Research and development expenses decreased as a percentage of net revenue for fiscal year 2010 as a result of the aforementioned increase in net revenue. The decrease in research and development expenses in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net revenues for fiscal year 2009 when compared to fiscal year 2008 was principally attributable to the restructuring plan implemented on January 22, 2009 in which we exited non-core product areas. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Selling, general and administrative $ 117,853 17.4 % $ 100,421 0.4 % $ 100,007 % of net revenues 11.0 % 12.5 % 11.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses include legal, accounting, treasury, human resources, information systems, customer service, bad debt expense, sales commissions, share-based compensation expense, advertising, marketing and other costs. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 is principally due to share-based compensation which increased primarily as a result of our increased stock price in fiscal year 2010 as compared to 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased for fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, due to the aforementioned increase in fiscal year 2010 revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively unchanged for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, mainly due to the aforementioned decline in fiscal year 2009 revenue. AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Amortization $ 6,136 0.3 % $ 6,118 1.9 % $ 6,005 % of net revenues 0.6 % 0.8 % 0.7 % Amortization expense remained consistent during the fiscal years presented above. 33 Table of Contents For additional information regarding goodwill and intangible assets, see Note 8 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Restructuring and other charges $ (1,040 ) (106.5 )% $ 15,982 2718.7 % $ 567 % of net revenues (0.1 )% 2.0 % 0.1 % Restructuring and other charges consist of charges for asset impairments and restructuring activities. On January 22, 2009, we implemented a restructuring plan to realign our costs given the business conditions at the time. We exited our mobile transceiver product area and reduced global headcount by approximately 4%, or 150 employees which resulted in a reduction to annual operating expenditures of approximately $20 million. We recorded various charges associated with this action. In total, we recorded $16.0 million of restructuring and other charges and $3.5 million in inventory write-downs that were charged to cost of goods sold. During fiscal year 2010 we recorded a gain of $1.0 million on the sale of a capital asset previously impaired during the 2009 restructuring. For additional information regarding restructuring charges and liability balances, see Note 16 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. INTEREST EXPENSE Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Interest expense $ 4,246 (48.8 )% $ 8,290 (49.2 )% $ 16,324 % of net revenues 0.4 % 1.0 % 1.9 % Interest expense is comprised principally of interest expense related to the Companys 2007 Convertible Notes which has been calculated under ASC 470-20 Debt, Debt with Conversion and Other Options . Interest expense includes charges in connection with our $50.0 million Credit Facility between Skyworks USA, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility expired in October 2010 and, given our strong cash position, management has determined that the Credit Facility was no longer required and accordingly, has been substantially repaid as of November 29, 2010. The decrease in interest expense for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 is primarily due to the decline in interest payments and amortization of discount associated with the early retirement and settlement of $53.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Convertible Notes. 34 Table of Contents The decrease in interest expense for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 in aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net revenues is due to the early retirement of $57.9 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys 2007 Convertible Notes in fiscal year 2009. For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see Note 9 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (LOSS) GAIN ON EARLY RETIREMENT OF CONVERTIBLE DEBT Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 (Loss) gain on early retirement of convertible debt $ (79 ) (101.7 )% $ 4,590 112.7 % $ 2,158 % of net revenues (0.0 )% 0.6 % 0.2 % We retired $32.6 million and $20.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Convertible Notes due in 2010 and 2012, respectively, during the fiscal year. We recorded a net loss of $0.1 million during fiscal year 2010 related to the early retirement of these notes. We retired $57.9 million and $62.4 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Convertible Notes and recorded a net gain of $4.6 million and $2.2 million in fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. For additional information regarding our borrowing arrangements, see Note 9 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 35 Table of Contents OTHER (LOSS) INCOME, NET Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Other (loss) income, net $ (345 ) (119.7 )% $ 1,753 (70.7 )% $ 5,983 % of net revenues (0.0 )% 0.2 % 0.7 % Other income, net is comprised primarily of interest income on invested cash balances, other non-operating income and expense items and foreign exchange gains/losses. The decreases in other income in both aggregate dollars and as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 related to an overall decline in interest income on invested cash balances due to lower rates combined with a net loss on foreign currency translation. For the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, the overall decline in interest income on invested cash balances is due to lower interest rates in fiscal year 2009. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 57,780 329.0 % $ (25,227 ) 12.5 % $ (28,818 ) % of net revenues 5.4 % (3.1 )% (3.4 )% The income tax provision for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 was $57.8 million as compared to a benefit of $25.2 million in fiscal year 2009. The annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2010 was 29.6% as compared to a tax benefit of 36.2% for fiscal year 2009. The income tax provision for fiscal year 2010 consisted of $51.9 million, $5.0 million and $0.9 million for United States tax expense, reserves for tax uncertainties, and foreign tax expense, respectively. The fiscal year 2009 benefit of $25.2 million was primarily due to a $25.4 million reduction in the valuation allowance related to the utilization and recognition of future tax benefits on United States federal and state net operating loss and credit carry forwards and other items, and United States income tax benefit of $1.0 million, offset by increases to reserves for tax uncertainties of $0.3 million and foreign tax expense of $0.9 million. The income tax benefit was $25.2 million and $28.8 million for fiscal year 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fiscal year 2008 benefit of $28.8 million is due to a $36.4 million reduction in the valuation allowance related to the partial recognition of future tax benefits from United States federal and state net operating loss and credit carry forwards, offset by United States income tax expense of $1.2 million, a charge in lieu of tax expense of $7.0 million, and foreign tax benefit of $0.6 million. The fiscal year 2008 charge in lieu of tax expense resulted from a partial recognition of certain acquired tax benefits that were subject to a valuation allowance at the time of acquisition, the realization of which required a reduction of goodwill. In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxe s, we have determined it is more likely than not that a portion of our historic and current year income tax benefits will not be realized. Accordingly, as of October 1, 2010, we have maintained a valuation allowance of $25.6 million of which $24.0 million relates to our United States deferred tax assets (principally related to state research tax credits), and $1.6 million relates to our foreign operations. If these benefits are recognized in a future period the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets will be reversed and up to a $25.2 million income tax benefit, and up to a $0.4 million reduction to goodwill may be recognized. Our balance of deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, as of October 1, 2010 is $93.0 million. Realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating taxable income in the future. We will continue to evaluate our valuation allowance in future periods and depending upon the outcome of that assessment, additional amounts could be reversed or recorded and recognized as a reduction to goodwill or an adjustment to income tax benefit or expense. Such adjustments could cause our effective income tax rate to vary in future periods. We will need to 36 Table of Contents generate $189.9 million of future United States federal taxable income to utilize our United States deferred tax assets as of October 1, 2010. No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign income taxes related to approximately $52.3 million of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently reinvested. It is not practicable to determine the United States federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings, were not permanently reinvested. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits totaled $19.9 million and $8.9 million as of October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at October 1, 2010, $11.4 million would lower the effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits would not impact the effective tax rate, if recognized, due to our valuation allowance and certain positions which were required to be capitalized. There are no positions which we anticipate could change materially within the next twelve months. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Fiscal Years Ended October 1, October 2, October 3, (dollars in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period $ 364,221 $ 225,104 $ 241,577 Net cash provided by operating activities 222,962 218,805 182,673 Net cash used in investing activities (95,329 ) (49,528 ) (94,959 ) Net cash used in financing activities (38,597 ) (30,160 ) (104,187 ) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (1) $ 453,257 $ 364,221 $ 225,104 (1) Does not include restricted cash balances Cash Flow from Operating Activities: Cash provided from operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain assets and liabilities. For fiscal year 2010 we generated $223.0 million in cash flow from operations, an increase of $4.2 million when compared to the $218.8 million generated in fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2010, net income increased by $42.3 million to $137.3 million when compared to fiscal year 2009. Despite the increase in net income, net cash provided by operating activities remained relatively consistent. This was primarily due to: Fiscal year 2010 net income included a deferred tax expense of $38.5 million compared to a $24.9 million deferred tax benefit included in 2009 net income due to the release of the tax valuation allowance in fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2010, the Company invested in working capital as result of higher business activity. Compared to fiscal year 2009, accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable increased by $60.9 million, $38.8 million and $42.9 million, respectively. Cash Flow from Investing Activities: Cash flow from investing activities consists primarily of capital expenditures and acquisitions. We had net cash outflows of $95.3 million in fiscal year 2010, compared to $49.5 million in fiscal year 2009. The increase is primarily due to an increase of $49.8 million in capital expenditures. We anticipate our capital spending to be consistent in fiscal year 2011 to maintain our projected growth rate. Cash Flow from Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash transactions related to debt and equity. During fiscal year 2010, we had net cash outflows of $38.6 million, compared to $30.2 million in fiscal year 2009. During the year we had the following significant transactions: 37 Table of Contents We retired $53.0 million in aggregate principal amount (carrying value of $51.1 million) of 2007 Convertible Notes for $80.7 million, which included a $29.6 million premium paid for the equity component of the instrument. We received net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $40.5 million in fiscal year 2010, compared to $38.7 million in fiscal year 2009. Liquidity: Cash and cash equivalent balances increased $89.0 million to $453.3 million at October 1, 2010 from $364.2 million at October 2, 2009. Our net cash position, after deducting our short and long term debt, increased by $137.7 million to $378.5 million at October 1, 2010 from $240.8 million at October 2, 2009. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect our existing sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, debt obligations, working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that the capital required to fund these expenses will be available in the future. In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make may require additional capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet our capital needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Our invested cash balances primarily consist of money market funds and repurchase agreements where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations, overnight repurchase agreements backed by United States treasuries and/or United States agency obligations and highly rated commercial paper. Our invested cash balances also include time deposits and certificates of deposit. At October 1, 2010, we also held a $3.2 million par value auction rate security. Disruptions in the credit markets have impaired the value of this security. During the fiscal year ended October 3, 2008, we concluded the fair value of the auction rate security was $2.3 million, and the carrying value was reduced by $0.9 million. In the fiscal year ended October 3, 2008, we recorded temporary unrealized losses of approximately $0.9 million in other comprehensive income and the auction rate security balance was reclassified to non-current other assets. We continue to monitor the liquidity and accounting classification of this security. If in a future period we determine that the impairment is other than temporary, we will impair the security to its fair value and charge the loss to earnings. On July 15, 2003, we entered into a receivables purchase agreement under which we have agreed to sell from time to time certain of our accounts receivable to Skyworks USA, Inc., a wholly-owned special purpose entity that is fully consolidated for accounting purposes. Concurrently, Skyworks USA entered into the Credit Facility. Any interest incurred by Skyworks USA related to monies it borrows under the Credit Facility is recorded as interest expense in the Companys consolidated results of operations. Interest related to the Credit Facility is at LIBOR plus 0.75%. As of October 1, 2010, Skyworks USA had borrowed $50.0 million under this agreement. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility expired in October 2010 and, given our strong cash position, management has determined that the Credit Facility was no longer required and accordingly, has been substantially repaid as of November 29, 2010. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheet or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in SEC Regulation S-K- 303(a)(4)(ii). CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS Following is a summary of our contractual payment obligations for consolidated debt, purchase agreements, operating leases, other commitments and long-term liabilities at October 1, 2010 (see Notes 9 and 13 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), in thousands: 38 Table of Contents Payments Due By Period Less Than 1 Obligation Total Year 1-3 years 3-5 Years Thereafter Short-Term Debt Obligations(1) $ 50,000 $ 50,000 $ $ $ Long-Term Debt Obligations 26,677 26,677 Other Commitments (2) 11,401 7,720 3,681 Operating Lease Obligations 21,811 5,553 7,274 4,956 4,028 Other Long-Term Liabilities (3) 18,389 1,753 791 262 15,583 $ 128,278 $ 65,026 $ 38,423 $ 5,218 $ 19,611 (1) Short-Term Debt obligation represents the cancellation and repayment of the Credit Facility which will occur during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. (2) Other Commitments consist of contractual license and royalty payments, and other purchase obligations. (3) Other Long-Term Liabilities includes our gross unrecognized tax benefits, as well as executive deferred compensation which are both classified as beyond five years due to the uncertain nature of the commitment. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and which require our most difficult, complex or subjective judgments or estimates. Based on this definition, we believe our critical accounting policies include the policies of revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangibles, and income taxes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the judgments and estimates underlying all of our accounting policies. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are based on our best estimates and judgment. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment, which we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. Changes in those estimates resulting from continuing changes in the economic environment will be reflected in the financial statements in future periods. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in detail in Note 1 in Item 8 In this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Effect if Actual Results Differ Description Judgments and Uncertainties From Assumptions Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC 605 Revenue Recognition net of estimated reserves. We maintain revenue reserves for product returns and allowances for price protection / stock rotation for certain electronic component distributors. These reserves are based on historical experience or specific identification of a contractual arrangement necessitating a revenue reserve. Our revenue recognition accounting methodology contains uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the value of future credits to customers for product returns, price protection and stock rotation. Our estimates of the amount and timing of the reserves is based primarily on historical experience and specific contractual arrangements. We have not made any material changes in our accounting methodology used to record revenue reserves during the last three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions that would have a material impact to earnings. 39 Table of Contents Effect if Actual Results Differ Description Judgments and Uncertainties From Assumptions Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We record an allowance for doubtful accounts for amounts that we estimate will arise from customers inability to make required payments against amounts owed on credit sales. The reserve is based on the analysis of credit risk and aged receivable balances. Our allowance for doubtful accounts methodology contains uncertainties because it requires management to apply judgment to evaluate credit risk and collectability of aged accounts receivables based on historical experience and forward looking assumptions. During fiscal year 2010 we modified the process in which we evaluate customers creditworthiness when establishing our allowance. This did not have a material effect in our balance. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in future estimates or assumptions that would have a material impact to earnings. Inventory Valuation We value our inventory at the lower of cost of the inventory or fair market value through the establishment of excess and obsolete inventory reserves. Our reserve is based on a detailed analysis of forecasted demand in relation to on-hand inventory, salability of our inventory, general market conditions, and product life cycles. Our inventory reserves contain uncertainties because the calculation requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding historical experience, forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. We have not made any material changes to our inventory reserve methodology during the last three fiscal years. We do not believe that significant changes will be made in future estimates or assumptions we use to calculate these reserves. However, if our estimates are inaccurate or changes in technology affect consumer demand we may be exposed to unforeseen gains or losses. A 10% difference in our inventory reserves as of October 1, 2010 would affect fiscal year 2010 earnings by approximately $1.2 million. Stock-Based Compensation We have a stock-based compensation plan which includes non-qualified stock options, share awards, and an employee stock purchase plan. See Note 11 of Item 8 for a detailed listing and complete discussion of our stock-based compensation programs. We determine the fair value of our non-qualified stock-based compensation at the date of grant using the Black Scholes options-pricing model. Our determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant contains assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to; our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, risk-free rate, the expected life and potential forfeitures of awards. Management periodically evaluates these assumptions and updates stock based compensation expense accordingly. Option-pricing models and generally accepted valuation techniques require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the future volatility of our stock price, future employee turnover rates and future employee stock option exercise behaviors. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate and stock based compensation recognized by the Company. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we used to calculate stock-based compensation during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe that there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in future estimates or assumptions used to determine stock-based compensation expense. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to a material change in stock-based compensation expense. A 10% difference in our stock-based compensation expense for the year ended October 1, 2010 would affect fiscal year 2010 earnings by approximately $4.1 million. 40 Table of Contents Effect if Actual Results Differ Description Judgments and Uncertainties From Assumptions Valuation of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are separately tested for impairment, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances arise that may indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. When evaluating long-lived assets for potential impairment, we first compare the carrying value of the assets to the assets estimated undiscounted future cash flows (excluding interest). If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset or asset group, we would recognize an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset or asset group. Our impairment loss calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate asset fair values, including estimating future cash flows, useful lives and selecting an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we use to assess impairment loss during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions we use to calculate long-lived asset impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may incur material losses. Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between tax and financial reporting. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. Significant management judgment is required in developing our provision for income taxes, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowances that might be required against the deferred tax assets. ASC 740 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with GAAP. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This statement also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in the interim periods and disclosure. The application of tax laws and regulations to calculate our tax liabilities is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty in a multitude of jurisdictions. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations, and court rulings. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. We record an amount as an estimate of probable additional income tax liability at the largest amount that we feel is more likely than not, based upon the technical merits of the position, to be sustained upon audit by the relevant tax authority. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that we feel are more likely than not to not be realized. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we used to measure our deferred tax assets and liabilities or reserves for additional income tax liabilities. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, or events caused us to change our estimate of probable additional income tax liability, a further charge to expense would be required. The Company expects to continue to be profitable and therefore has determined that a valuation allowance is not required against our deferred tax assets, except for certain state and foreign tax credits. If certain events caused us to change our estimate of the realizability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, a further charge to expense would be required. 41 Table of Contents Effect if Actual Results Differ Description Judgments and Uncertainties From Assumptions Goodwill and Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually on the first day of the fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or circumstances arise that may indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangibles may not be recoverable. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives comprise an insignificant portion of the total book value of our goodwill and intangible assets. Pursuant to the guidance provide under ASC 280- Segment Reporting , we have determined that we have only one reporting unit for the purposes of allocating and testing goodwill. The impairment evaluation involves comparing the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit. We use the market price of the Companys stock adjusted for a market premium to calculate the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, then it is concluded that no goodwill impairment has occurred. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step is required to measure the possible goodwill impairment loss. In the second step, we would use a discounted cash flow methodology to determine the implied fair value of our goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill would then be compared to the carrying value of the goodwill. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we would recognize a loss equal to the excess. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate control premiums, discount rate, future cash flows and the profitability of future business strategies. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we use to assess impairment loss during the past three fiscal years. The carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at October 1, 2010 were $485.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively. Based on the results of our impairment test, we had a significant excess fair value over the carrying value. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions we use to calculate goodwill and intangible asset impairment losses. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to losses that could be material. OTHER MATTERS Inflation did not have a material impact upon our results of operations during the three-year period ended October 1, 2010.