Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Companys audited annual consolidated financial statements and related notes, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2024. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Companys current expectations, estimates and assumptions concerning events and financial trends that may affect the Companys future operating results or financial position. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed or implied in the Companys forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements herein and elsewhere in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. SkyWater refers to the three-month periods ended March 30, 2025 and March 31, 2024 as the first quarter of 2025 and first quarter of 2024, respectively. Each of these three-month periods includes 13 weeks. All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this managements discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding period. For purposes of this section, the terms we, us, our, and SkyWater refer to SkyWater Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively. Overview We are a U.S.-based, independent, pure-play technology foundry that offers advanced semiconductor development and manufacturing services from our fabrication facility, or fab, in Minnesota and advanced packaging services from our Florida facility. Our Technology-as-a-Service model leverages a foundation of proprietary technology, engineering know-how capabilities, and microelectronics manufacturing capacity to co-develop process technology intellectual property (IP) with our customers that enables disruptive concepts through our Advanced Technology Services (ATS) for diverse microelectronics (integrated circuits (ICs)) and related micro- and nanotechnology applications. In addition to differentiated technology development services, we support customers with volume production of ICs for high-growth markets through our Wafer Services. The combination of semiconductor development and manufacturing services we provide our customers is not available to them from a conventional fab. In addition, we believe our status as a publicly-traded, U.S.-based, U.S. headquartered pure-play technology foundry with Defense Microelectronics Activity Category 1A Trusted Accreditation from the U.S. Department of Defense positions us well to provide distinct, competitive advantages to our customers. These advantages include the benefits of enhanced IP security and secure access to a U.S. domestic supply chain. We primarily focus on serving diversified, high-growth end users in numerous vertical markets, including (1) advanced compute, (2) aerospace and defense, (3) automotive, (4) bio-health, and (5) industrial. By housing both development and manufacturing in a single operation, we rapidly and efficiently transition newly-developed processes to high-yielding volume production, eliminating the time it would otherwise take to transfer production to a third-party fab. Through our ATS model, we specialize in co-creating advanced solutions with our customers that directly serve our end markets, such as infrared imaging, superconducting ICs for quantum computing and sensing, Rad-hard complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS), integrated photonics, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), technologies for biomedical and imaging applications, and advanced packaging. Our Wafer Services include the manufacture of silicon-based analog and mixed-signal ICs for our end markets. Our focus on the differentiated analog and CMOS markets supports long product life-cycles and requirements that value performance over cost-efficiencies, and leverages our portfolio IP. 25 Table of Contents Factors and Trends Affecting our Business and Results of Operations The following trends and uncertainties either affected our financial performance during the first quarters of 2025 and 2024 or are reasonably likely to impact our results in the future. Macroeconomic and competitive conditions, including cyclicality and consolidation, as well as government funding in semiconductor technology and manufacturing, create unique challenges and opportunities for the semiconductor industry and SkyWater. Changes in trade policies, including the imposition of or increase in tariffs and changes to existing trade agreements, could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In August 2022, the U.S. enacted the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors and Science Act of 2022 (the CHIPS Act) pursuant to which the United States has committed to a renewed focus on providing incentives and funding for onshore companies to develop and advance the latest semiconductor technologies, supporting onshore manufacturing capabilities, and on strengthening key onshore supply chains. The CHIPS Act authorizes the U.S. Department of Commerce to enable execution of awards under the CHIPS Act and provides $52.7 billion for American semiconductor research, development, manufacturing, and workforce development, including $39 billion in financial assistance to build, expand, or modernize domestic facilities and equipment for semiconductor fabrication, assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or research and development. In December 2023, we submitted an application to the CHIPS Program Office of the U.S. Department of Commerce for funding through the CHIPS and Science Act for modernization and equipment upgrades to enhance production at our Minnesota facility. In December 2024, we signed a preliminary memorandum of terms that provides for up to $16 million pursuant to the CHIPS and Science Act, which is in addition to $19 million in incentives from the State of Minnesota. The federal funding is expected to be received in 2026, and the state incentives are expected to be received starting in the fourth quarter of 2025 We project customer-funded capital investment to be a significant driver of the success of our business model, as we expect customers to invest in our capabilities and enable us to develop technology platforms that will drive our future growth. Our overall level of indebtedness from our revolving credit agreement, which we refer to as the Revolver (as defined below and in Note 6 Debt), financing arising from the sale and leaseback of the land and building of our Minnesota facility, which we refer to as the VIE Financing, financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment, which we refer to as the Tool Financing Loans, and the corresponding interest rates charged to us by our lenders, are key components of maintaining capital funding that allow us to continue to grow our business. Pending Acquisition On February 25, 2025, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Spansion LLC (Seller), an affiliate of Infineon Technologies AG, pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions contained therein, the Company will acquire all of the issued and outstanding memberships interests of a limited liability company that will be formed prior to closing and that will receive, pursuant to a pre-closing restructuring, certain assets and liabilities related to Infineon Technologies AGs 200 mm fab in Austin, Texas (the Transaction). The purchase price for the Transaction is expected to be approximately $110 million, comprised of a base purchase price for the Transaction of $80 million ($55 million of which will be paid at closing), plus a payment at closing for working capital, estimated to be approximately $30 million, subject to adjustment. The payment of the remaining $25 million of the base purchase price will be deferred for four years and will be paid by wafer credits under a wafer supply agreement with an affiliate of Seller, which agreement will be executed at the closing of the Transaction pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. The Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary closing conditions, including, among other things: (1) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of each party to the Purchase Agreement; (2) the performance by each party of its obligations and covenants in all material respects; (3) the absence of a material adverse effect between the signing of the Purchase Agreement and the closing of the Transaction; (4) the absence of any applicable order or law prohibiting the Transaction; and (5) obtaining U.S. regulatory approval. Under the Purchase Agreement, the closing of the Transaction shall occur no earlier than May 30, 2025, unless otherwise agreed mutually by the parties. The Purchase Agreement may be terminated by mutual written agreement of the Company and Seller or by either the Company or Seller in limited circumstances, including, among other things, (i) certain uncured breaches of any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation in the Purchase Agreement by the other party; (ii) failure to complete the Transaction by September 30, 2025; and (iii) the existence of an order by a governmental authority prohibiting the Transaction. The Company anticipates closing the Transaction mid-2025. 26 Table of Contents The Company intends to finance the purchase price for the Transaction through debt financing. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: Revenue and gross profit; Net loss; and Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted (adjusted EBITDA), which is a financial measure not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), that excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial measure, see the section entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measure below. Results of Operations First Quarter of 2025 Compared to the First Quarter of 2024 The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to our operating results for the first quarter of 2025 and 2024. First Quarter Ended Percentage Change March 30, 2025 March 31, 2024 (in thousands) Consolidated statement of operations data: Revenue $ 61,296 $ 79,636 (23) % Cost of revenue 47,039 66,656 (29) % Gross profit 14,257 12,980 10 % Research and development expense 3,249 4,012 (19) % Selling, general, and administrative expense 15,030 11,169 35 % Operating loss (4,022) (2,201) 83 % Interest expense 1,812 2,390 (176) % Loss before income taxes (5,834) (4,591) 27 % Income tax expense 384 41 837 % Net loss (6,218) (4,632) 34 % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 1,127 1,097 3 % Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (7,345) $ (5,729) 28 % Revenue Revenue was $61.3 million for the first quarter of 2025 compared to $79.6 million for the first quarter of 2024, a decrease of $18.3 million, or 23%. The decrease in revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in Tool and ATS revenue. The following table shows revenue by service type for the first quarter of 2025 and 2024: First Quarter Ended March 30, 2025 March 31, 2024 (in thousands) ATS development $ 52,535 $ 61,185 Tools 1,234 8,459 Wafer Services 7,527 9,992 Total $ 61,296 $ 79,636 27 Table of Contents ATS development revenue decreased $8.7 million, or 14%, from the first quarter of 2024 to the first quarter of 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by a $8.8 million decrease in Aerospace & Defense revenue. The decline in our Aerospace & Defense revenue is largely driven by recent changes in U.S. government policy and defense spending. Shifts in U.S. federal budget priorities and delayed contract awards have impacted program funding and slowed our pipeline. We expect to fulfill these contracts in the second half of fiscal 2025. Of the Aerospace & Defense decline, $2.7 million is attributable to programs that have transitioned from ATS to Wafer Services, upon successful completion of critical development steps. Additional declines included a $0.7 million decrease in medical revenue and a $0.3 million decrease in industrial revenue. These were partially offset by growth in other areas, including a $0.9 million increase in revenue from cloud computing customers and a $0.2 million increase in consumer market revenue. Tools revenue decreased $7.2 million from the first quarter of 2024 to the first quarter of 2025 driven by completion of several investment efforts by our customers to acquire tools that advance our capabilities for their ATS development programs. The decrease in Wafer Services revenue of $2.4 million, or 25%, from the first quarter of 2024 to the first quarter of 2025 was primarily driven by a $4.2 million decline in demand from a key automotive customer facing oversupply challenges. Revenue from a medical customer also declined by $1.0 million. These decreases were partially offset by a $2.4 million increase (of which $2.7 million was attributable to the ATS to Wafer Services transition) in revenue from an aerospace and defense customer and a $0.4 million increase from a consumer customer. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue decreased $19.6 million to $47.0 million for the first quarter of 2025 from $66.7 million for the first quarter of 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by a $7.2 million decrease from completion of procurement of several tools on behalf of our customers to advance our capabilities for their ATS development programs, in addition to $7.8 million incurred during the first quarter of 2024 for anticipated additional costs to complete certain development milestones for a significant aerospace and defense program. Through contract modification that reduced the program scope, we released $6.7 million of the $7.8 million reserved during the first quarter of 2024 later in fiscal 2024. As of March 30, 2025, there have been no significant modifications to the program. Research and development expense Research and development expense decreased $0.8 million to $3.2 million for the first quarter of 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by commercialization of the S90 platform, as well as decreased U.S. government funding for the RH90 platform. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased to $15.0 million for the first quarter of 2025, from $11.2 million for the first quarter of 2024. The increase of $3.9 million was primarily attributable to $1.8 million in expenses related to the acquisition of Infineons Fab 25 facility. These expenses primarily consisted of consulting fees associated with the acquisition. Interest expense Interest expense decreased to $1.8 million for the first quarter of 2025 from $2.4 million for the first quarter of 2024. The decrease of ($0.6) million was the result of lower amounts outstanding on our lending facility. Net Loss Net loss increased $1.6 million, or 28% from $5.7 million for the first quarter of 2024 to $7.3 million for the first quarter of 2025. The increase was the result of the net impacts of the changes described above related to the components of our results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA decreased $0.9 million, or 18%, to $4.0 million for the first quarter of 2025 from $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2024. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA was a result of headwinds experienced in our ATS business as a result of U.S. government policy impacts on defense spending. For a discussion of adjusted EBITDA as well as reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, see the section below entitled Non-GAAP Financial Measure. 28 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources General For the three-months ended March 30, 2025, and fiscal year ended December 29, 2024 the Company incurred net losses attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. of $7.3 million and $6.8 million, respectively. As of March 30, 2025 and December 29, 2024, the Company held cash and cash equivalents of $51.2 and $18.8 million, respectively. SkyWaters ability to execute its operating strategy is dependent on its ability to maintain liquidity and continue to access capital through the Revolver (as defined in Note 6 Debt), and other sources of financing. The current business plans indicate that the Company maintains sufficient liquidity to continue its operations and maintain compliance with financial covenants for the next twelve months from the date the consolidated financial statements are issued. As a result of amendments made on November 19, 2024, the Revolver matures on December 31, 2028 and provides for a maximum revolving facility amount of $130 million. In regard to the Transaction, SkyWater intends to finance the purchase price for the Transaction through a new debt arrangement which is expected to be executed in connection with closing of the acquisition. The Company has also obtained a support letter from Oxbow Industries, LLC (Oxbow Industries), an affiliate of the Companys principal stockholder, to provide funding in an amount up to $12.5 million, if necessary, to enable the Company to meet its obligations as they become due through March 18, 2026. Based upon SkyWaters operational forecasts, cash and cash equivalents on hand, available and expected additional borrowings on the Revolver, and the support letter from Oxbow Industries, as needed, management believes SkyWater will have sufficient liquidity to fund its operations for the next twelve months from the date these consolidated financial statements are issued. We had $51.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, not including cash held by a VIE that we consolidate, and availability under our Revolver of $82.2 million at March 30, 2025. We are subject to certain liquidity and EBITDA covenants under our Loan Agreement, as outlined in the section below entitled Indebtedness. Open Market Sale Agreement On September 2, 2022, SkyWater entered into an Open Market Sale Agreement with Jefferies LLC with respect to an at the market offering program (the ATM Program). Pursuant to the agreement, the Company may, from time to time, offer and sell up to $100.0 million in shares of the Companys common stock. During the three-month period ended March 30, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Company did not sell shares under the ATM Program. From the date of the ATM Program through March 30, 2025, the Company has cumulatively sold 2,516,586 shares at an average sale price of $9.96 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $25.1 million before deducting sales commissions and fees of approximately $1,212. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down the Revolver and fund its operations. As of March 30, 2025, the Company was authorized to sell an additional $74.9 million in shares under the ATM Program. Capital Expenditures For the first quarter of 2025 and 2024, we spent approximately $15.2 million and $4.1 million, respectively, on capital expenditures, including purchases of property, equipment and software. The majority of these capital expenditures relate to improvements at our Minnesota facility and the development of our advanced packaging capabilities at our Center for NeoVation in Florida. We anticipate our cash on hand and the availability under the Revolver will provide the funds needed to meet our customer demand and anticipated capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2025. We have approximately $26.9 million of contractual commitments relating to various anticipated capital expenditures outstanding at March 30, 2025 that we expect to pay during the remainder of 2025 through cash on hand and operating cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Working Capital Historically, we have depended on cash on hand, funds available under our Revolver and, in the future, we may need to depend on additional debt and equity financings to fund our growth strategy, working capital needs, and capital expenditures. We believe that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide cash, as required, to support our strategy, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, lease obligations, and working capital for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain future debt or equity financings on commercially reasonable terms sufficient to meet our cash requirements. At March 30, 2025, the outstanding balance of our Revolver was $23.9 million, and our remaining availability under the Revolver was $82.2 million. The following table sets forth general information derived from our interim condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the first quarter of 2025 and 2024: First Three Months Ended March 30, 2025 March 31, 2024 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 55,967 $ (3,924) Net cash used in investing activities $ (15,183) $ (2,070) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (8,394) $ 7,614 Cash and Cash Equivalents At March 30, 2025 and December 29, 2024, we had $51.2 million and $18.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. A discussion of the change in cash and cash equivalents can be found below. Operating Activities Cash flow from operations is driven by changes in the working capital needs associated with the various goods and services we provide, and expenses related to the infrastructure in place to support revenue generation. Working capital is primarily affected by changes in accounts receivable, contract assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and contract liabilities, all of which are partially correlated to and impacted by changes in the timing and volume of activities performed in our facilities. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was $56.0 million during the first quarter of 2025, an increase of $59.9 million from $3.9 million of cash used in operating activities during the first quarter of 2024. The increase in cash provided by operating activities during the first quarter of 2025 was driven primarily by an increase in contract liabilities of $52.0 million from a large cash receipt from a customer, which we will use to install a tool over the next three quarters. Other increases to operating cash flows were driven by a $8.9million decrease in customer prepayments due to reduction in balance of deferred costs related to undelivered tools and in process installation, qualification and automation services, as well as a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.4 million due to improved cash collection efforts as a result of a higher quality customer mix and timing on invoicing for unbilled work and contract assets. These positive impacts were partially offset by a $1.6 million decrease in our earnings after non-cash adjustments, as well as decreases in accounts payable of $2.0 million due to the timing of the payment amounts owed to vendors. Investing Activities Our investments in capital expenditures are intended to enable revenue growth in new and expanding markets, help us meet product demand, and increase our manufacturing efficiencies and capacity. Net cash used in investing activities was $15.2 million during the first quarter of 2025, a increase of $13.1 million from $2.1 million during the first quarter of 2024. The increase in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2025 reflects the increased capital spending on property and equipment compared to the same period in 2024. Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities was $8.4 million during the first quarter of 2025 from net cash provided by financing activities of $7.6 million during the first quarter of 2024. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities during the first quarter of 2025 was primarily driven by the decrease in net draws on our Revolver of $14.9 million. 30 Table of Contents Indebtedness Sale Leaseback Transaction In 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell the land and building of our Minnesota facility to Oxbow Realty, an affiliate of our principal stockholder, for $39.0 million, less applicable transaction costs of $1.5 million and transaction services fees paid to Oxbow Realty of $2.0 million, and paid a guarantee fee to our principal stockholder of $2.0 million. We subsequently entered into an agreement to leaseback the land and building from Oxbow Realty for initial payments of $0.4 million per month over 20 years. The monthly payments are subject to a 2% increase each year during the term of the lease. We are also required to make certain customary payments constituting additional rent, including certain monthly reserve, insurance, and tax payments, in accordance with the terms of the lease. Due to our continuing involvement in the property, we are accounting for the transactions as a failed sale leaseback. Under failed sale leaseback accounting, we are deemed the owner of the land and building with the proceeds received recorded as a financial obligation. Revolving Credit Agreement On December 28, 2022, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Siena Lending Group LLC (Siena), which was amended on November 19, 2024 (as amended, the Loan Agreement). The Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $130 million with a scheduled maturity date of December 31, 2028 (the Revolver). The Company has incurred $4.4 million of debt issuance costs in connection with the Loan Agreement, which will be amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Revolver. At March 30, 2025, we had borrowings of $23.9 million under the Revolver. Borrowing under the Loan Agreement is limited by a borrowing base of specified advance rates applicable to billed accounts receivable, contract assets, inventory and equipment, subject to various conditions, limits and any availability block as provided in the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement also provides for borrowing base sublimits applicable to each of contract assets and equipment. Under certain circumstances, Siena may from time to time establish and revise reserves against the borrowing base and/or the maximum revolving facility amount. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate that depends upon the type of borrowing, whether a term secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) loan or base rate loan, plus the applicable margin. The term SOFR loan rate is a forward-looking term rate based on SOFR for a tenor of one month on the applicable day, subject to a minimum of 2.5% per annum. The base rate is the greatest of the prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 0.5% and 7.0% per annum. The applicable margin is an applicable percentage based on the fix charged coverage ratio that ranges from 4.00% to 5.00% per annum for term SOFR loans and ranges from 3.00% to 4.00% per annum for base rate loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and financial and other covenants and conditions. Subject to certain cure rights, the Loan Agreement requires $10.0 million in minimum EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement) calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, prohibits unfunded capital expenditures in excess of $15.0 million calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, and requires a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, measured on a trailing twelve month basis, of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 if our liquidity is less than $15.0 million. In addition, the Loan Agreement places certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness (other than permitted indebtedness), to create liens or other encumbrances (other than liens relating to permitted indebtedness), to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, to merge or consolidate with other entities, and to make certain restricted payments, including payments of dividends to our stockholders. As of March 30, 2025, we were in compliance with applicable covenants of the Loan Agreement and expect to continue to be in compliance with applicable financial covenants over the next twelve months. Due to a lockbox clause in the Loan Agreement, the outstanding loan balance is required to be serviced with working capital, and the debt is classified as short-term on the interim condensed consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP. VIE Financing On September 30, 2020, Oxbow Realty, the Companys consolidated VIE, entered into a loan agreement for $39.0 million (the VIE Financing) to finance the acquisition of the building and land of the SkyWater Minnesota facility. The VIE Financing is repayable in equal monthly installments of $0.2 million over 10 years, with the balance payable at the maturity date of October 6, 2030. The interest rate under the VIE Financing is fixed at 3.44%. The VIE Financing is guaranteed by Oxbow Industries, who is also the sole equity holder of Oxbow Realty. The VIE Financing is not subject to financial covenants. The terms of the VIE Financing include provisions that grant the lender several protective rights when certain triggering events defined in the loan agreement occur, including events tied to SkyWaters occupancy of the SkyWater 31 Table of Contents Minnesota facility and SkyWaters financial performance. The triggering events are not financial covenants and the occurrence of these triggering events do not represent events of default, nor do they result in the VIE Financing becoming callable, rather the protective rights become enforceable by the lender. Based on the level of SkyWaters earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring or rent costs relative to gross rents paid from SkyWater to Oxbow Realty, as defined in the loan agreement, a triggering event existed and the lenders protective rights were enforceable during the first half of fiscal year 2024. Pursuant to its protective rights, the lender had retained in a restricted account amounts paid by SkyWater to Oxbow Realty pursuant to the Companys related party lease agreement that were in excess of the scheduled debt payments paid by Oxbow Realty to the lender. The triggering event was cured during the three-month period ended June 30, 2024 and the funds held in the restricted account were remitted back to Oxbow Realty. No triggering events as defined in the loan agreement existed as of March 30, 2025. The VIE Financing is secured by a security interest in the land and building which was the subject of the sale-leaseback transaction described above. The Companys VIE incurred third-party transaction costs of $0.1 million, which are recognized as debt issuance costs and are amortizing as additional interest expense over the life of the VIE Financing. The Company incurred additional third-party transaction costs of $3.5 million, which are recognized as debt issuance costs and are being amortized as additional interest expense over the life of the VIE Financing. Tool Financing Loans We, from time to time, enter into financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we did not enter into any new arrangements to sell manufacturing tools and other equipment to financing lenders. In fiscal year 2024, these arrangements totaled $6.3 million. These agreements include bargain purchase options at the end of the lease terms, which we intend to exercise. These transactions represent failed sale leasebacks with the associated equipment recorded in property and equipment, net and the proceeds received, net of scheduled repayments of the financings, recorded as debt on the consolidated balance sheets. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to the following, for which information on both a short-term and long-term basis is provided in the indicated notes to the consolidated financial statements: DebtRefer to Note 6. Capital expenditure commitmentsRefer to Note 9. Capital lease commitmentsRefer to Note 12 . Sale leaseback obligationRefer to Note 10. Income TaxesRefer to Note 7. Other commitments and contingenciesRefer to Note 9. Recent Accounting Developments For information on new accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Emerging Growth Company and Smaller Reporting Company Status We qualify as an emerging growth company pursuant to the provisions of the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory say-on-pay votes on executive compensation, and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. The JOBS Act also permits an emerging growth company like us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards and therefore, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards on a non-delayed basis. We are also a smaller reporting company. If we are a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies. Specifically, as a smaller reporting company we may choose to present only the two most recent 32 Table of Contents fiscal years of audited financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and, similar to emerging growth companies, smaller reporting companies have reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In connection with preparing our interim condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expense, and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends, and other factors that management believes are relevant at the time we prepared our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our interim condensed consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ materially from our assumptions and estimates. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, valuation of inventory, equity-based compensation, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measure Our interim condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement our interim condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, an additional non-GAAP financial measure is provided and reconciled in the table below. We provide supplemental non-GAAP financial information that our management regularly evaluates to provide additional insight to investors as supplemental information to our U.S. GAAP results. Our management uses adjusted EBITDA to make informed operating decisions, complete strategic planning, prepare annual budgets, and evaluate the Companys and our managements performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it provides a baseline for analyzing trends in our business and excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results. The use of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, the comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In addition, because this non-GAAP financial measure is not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, other companies, including our peers, may calculate their non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do. As a result, the non-GAAP financial measure presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is not a financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We define adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income before interest expense, income tax (benefit) expense, depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation, and certain other items that we do not view as indicative of our ongoing performance, including net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, equity-based compensation expense and transaction costs. We believe adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it allows for an effective evaluation of our operating performance when compared to other companies, including our peers, without regard to financing methods or capital structures. We exclude the items listed above from net income or loss in arriving at adjusted EBITDA because these amounts can vary substantially within our industry depending on the accounting methods and policies used, book values of assets, capital structures, and the methods by which assets were acquired. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain items excluded from adjusted EBITDA are significant components in understanding and assessing a companys financial performance, such as a companys cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic costs of depreciable assets, none of which are reflected in adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indication that our results will be unaffected by the items excluded from adjusted EBITDA. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, unless otherwise expressly indicated. 33 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. to adjusted EBITDA, our most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. First Quarter Ended March 30, 2025 March 31, 2024 (in thousands) Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (7,345) $ (5,729) Interest expense 1,812 2,390 Income tax expense 384 41 Depreciation and amortization, net 4,358 5,065 EBITDA (791) 1,767 Equity-based compensation expense (1) 1,879 2,072 Transaction costs (2) 1,810 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (3) 1,127 1,097 Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,025 $ 4,936 __________________ (1)Represents non-cash equity-based compensation expense. (2)Represents costs associated with the Company's anticipated acquisition of Fab 25 in mid-2025, including fees for consultants, professional services fees and other costs to effectuate the closing of the transaction. (3)Represents net income attributable to noncontrolling interests arising from our variable interest entity (VIE), which was formed for the purpose of purchasing the land and building of our primary operating facility in Bloomington, Minnesota. Since interest expense is added back to net income (loss) attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. in our adjusted EBITDA financial measure, we also add back the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as its net income is derived from interest the VIE charges SkyWater. 34 Table of Contents