Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements and related notes, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2023. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current expectations, estimates and assumptions concerning events and financial trends that may affect the Company's future operating results or financial position. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed or implied in the Company's forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those described in the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" herein and elsewhere in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. SkyWater refers to the three-month periods ended October 1, 2023 and October 2, 2022 as the third quarter of 2023 and third quarter of 2022, respectively. Each of these three-month periods includes 13 weeks. The nine-month periods ended October 1, 2023 and October 2, 2022 are referred to as the first nine months of 2023 and the first nine months of 2022, respectively. Each of these nine-month periods includes 39 weeks. All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this management's discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding period. For purposes of this section, the terms "we," "us," "our," and "SkyWater" refer to SkyWater Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively. Overview We are a U.S.-based, independent, pure-play technology foundry that offers advanced semiconductor development and manufacturing services from our fabrication facility, or fab, in Minnesota and advanced packaging services from our Florida facility. Our technology-as-a-service model leverages a strong foundation of proprietary technology to co-develop process technology intellectual property, or IP, with our customers that enables disruptive concepts through our Advanced Technology Services for diverse microelectronics (integrated circuits, or ICs) and related micro- and nanotechnology applications. In addition to differentiated technology development services, we support customers with volume production of ICs for high-growth markets through our Wafer Services. The combination of semiconductor development and manufacturing services we provide our customers is not available to them from a conventional fab. In addition, our status as a publicly-traded, U.S.-based pure-play technology foundry with Defense Microelectronics Activity ("DMEA") Category 1A Trusted Accreditation from the U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, positions us well to provide distinct, competitive advantages to our customers. These advantages include the benefits of enhanced IP security and easy access to a U.S. domestic supply chain. We primarily focus on serving diversified, high-growth, end-users in numerous vertical markets, including (1) advanced computation, (2) aerospace and defense, or A&D, (3) automotive and transportation, (4) bio-health, (5) consumer and (6) industrial/internet of things, or IoT. By housing both development and manufacturing in a single operation, we rapidly and efficiently transition newly-developed processes to high-yielding volume production, eliminating the time it would otherwise take to transfer production to a third-party fab. Through our Advanced Technology Services, we specialize in co-creating with our customers advanced solutions that directly serve our end markets, such as superconducting ICs for quantum computing, integrated photonics, carbon nanotube technologies, or CNTs, microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS, technologies for biomedical and imaging applications, and advanced packaging. Our Wafer Services include the manufacture of silicon-based analog and mixed-signal ICs for our end markets. Our focus on the differentiated analog and complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS markets supports long product life-cycles and requirements that value performance over cost-efficiencies, and leverages our portfolio IP. Before we began independent operations, our fab was owned and operated by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, or Cypress, as a captive manufacturing facility for 26 years. We have leveraged the Cypress system, manufacturing technology and process development capabilities to advance our product offerings. We became an independent company in March 2017 when we were acquired by Oxbow Industries, LLC, or Oxbow Industries, as part of a divestiture from Cypress. Our multi-year foundry services agreement with Cypress, which ended in June 2020, created a runway for us to operate the foundry at a high utilization rate while continuing to expand and diversify the customer base. Cypress was acquired in April 2020 by Infineon Technologies AG. 28 Table of Contents Factors and Trends Affecting our Business and Results of Operations The following trends and uncertainties either affected our financial performance during the first nine months of 2023 and 2022 or are reasonably likely to impact our results in the future. Macroeconomic and competitive conditions, including cyclicality and consolidation, as well as the global availability of significant incentives in semiconductor technology and manufacturing affecting the semiconductor industry. On August 9, 2022, the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors and Science Act of 2022 (the "CHIPS Act"), was signed into law pursuant to which the United States has committed to a renewed focus on providing incentives and funding for onshore companies to develop and advance the latest semiconductor technologies, supporting onshore manufacturing capabilities, and on strengthening key onshore supply chains. The CHIPS Act authorizes the U.S. Department of Commerce to enable execution of awards under the CHIPS Act and provides $52.7 billion for American semiconductor research, development, manufacturing, and workforce development, including $39 billion in financial assistance to build, expand, or modernize domestic facilities and equipment for semiconductor fabrication, assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or research and development. We have submitted two Statements of Interest and a Pre-Application for an award under the CHIPS Act. Our overall level of indebtedness from our revolving credit agreement for up to $100 million, which we refer to as the Revolver (as defined below and in Note 6 Debt), a $37 million financing arising from the sale of the land and building of our Minnesota facility, which we refer to as the VIE Financing, financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment, which we refer to as the Tool Financing Loans, the corresponding interest rates charged to us by our lenders and our ability to access borrowings under the Revolver. Identification and pursuit of specific product and geographic market opportunities that we find attractive both within and outside the United States. We will continue to more effectively address these opportunities through research and development and allocation of additional revenue and marketing resources. Material and other cost inflation. We strive for productivity improvements, and we implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate inflation. We expect the current economic environment will result in continuing price volatility and inflation for many of our raw materials. In addition, the labor market for skilled manufacturing remains tight and our labor costs have increased as a result. Supply chain disruptions impacting our business. Although we have experienced supply chain disruptions from time to time, such supply chain disruptions did not materially impact our business, results of operations, or capital resources during the first nine months of 2023 or 2022. However, we may experience supply chain disruptions for substrates, chemicals and spare parts in addition to customer supply chain constraints that may negatively impact our revenue in the future. Financial Performance Metrics Our senior management team regularly reviews certain key financial performance metrics within our business, including: Revenue and gross profit; and Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as adjusted, or adjusted EBITDA, which is a financial measure not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, that excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results, as well as items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the same industry. For information regarding our non-GAAP financial measure, see the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" below. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations Third Quarter of 2023 Compared to the Third Quarter of 2022 The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to our operating results for the third quarter of 2023 and 2022. Third Quarter Ended Dollar Change Percentage Change Favorable/(Unfavorable) October 1, 2023 (1) October 2, 2022 (1) (in thousands) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Revenue $ 71,624 $ 52,326 $ 19,298 37 % Cost of revenue 57,477 44,049 13,428 (30) % Gross profit 14,147 8,277 5,870 71 % Research and development expense 2,233 2,580 (347) 13 % Selling, general, and administrative expense 16,105 10,778 5,327 (49) % Operating loss (4,191) (5,081) 890 18 % Interest expense (2,507) (1,331) (1,176) (88) % Loss before income taxes (6,698) (6,412) (286) (4) % Income tax (benefit) expense (96) 87 (183) 210 % Net loss (6,602) (6,499) (103) (2) % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 966 440 526 120 % Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (7,568) $ (6,939) $ (629) (9) % Other Financial Data Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 8,276 $ 3,815 $ 4,461 117 % __________________ (1)The interim condensed consolidated statements of operations are for the third quarter of 2023 and the third quarter of 2022. The third quarter of 2023 and 2022 each contained 13 weeks. (2)See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for the definition of adjusted EBITDA and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 30 Table of Contents First Nine Months of 2023 Compared to the First Nine Months of 2022 The following table summarizes certain financial information relating to the Company's operating results for the first nine months of 2023 and 2022. First Nine Months Ended Dollar Change Percentage Change Favorable/(Unfavorable) October 1, 2023 (1) October 2, 2022 (1) (in thousands) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data Revenue $ 207,529 $ 147,854 $ 59,675 40 % Cost of revenue 160,247 138,437 21,810 (16) % Gross profit 47,282 9,417 37,865 402 % Research and development expense 7,296 7,223 73 (1) % Selling, general, and administrative expense 48,821 33,263 15,558 (47) % Operating loss (8,835) (31,069) 22,234 72 % Interest expense (7,928) (3,400) (4,528) (133) % Loss before income taxes (16,763) (34,469) 17,706 51 % Income tax benefit (71) (44) (27) 61 % Net loss (16,692) (34,425) 17,733 52 % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 3,739 2,125 1,614 76 % Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (20,431) $ (36,550) $ 16,119 44 % Other Financial Data Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 26,666 $ (2,622) $ 29,288 1,117 % __________________ (1)The interim condensed consolidated statements of operations are for the first nine months of 2023 and the first nine months of 2022. The first nine months of 2023 and 2022 each contained 39 weeks. (2)See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure" for the definition of adjusted EBITDA and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 31 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue was $71.6 million for the third quarter of 2023 compared to $52.3 million for the third quarter of 2022. Revenue was $207.5 million for the first nine months of 2023 compared to $147.9 million for the first nine months of 2022. The increases in revenue were driven by an increase in Advanced Technology Services revenues. The following table shows revenue by service type for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2023 and 2022: Third Quarter Ended First Nine Months Ended October 1, 2023 October 2, 2022 October 1, 2023 October 2, 2022 (in thousands) Advanced Technology Services $ 57,134 $ 35,172 $ 158,450 $ 91,570 Wafer Services 14,490 17,154 49,079 56,284 Total $ 71,624 $ 52,326 $ 207,529 $ 147,854 Advanced Technology Services revenue increased $22.0 million, or 62%, from the third quarter of 2022 to the third quarter of 2023, and increased $66.9 million, or 73%, from the first nine months of 2022 to the first nine months of 2023. The increase in both periods was primarily due to continued momentum in U.S. government programs to bolster the domestic semiconductor supply chain and strengthen the defense industrial base, as well as an increase in activity in the cloud and computing end market. The decrease in Wafer Services revenue of $2.7 million, or 16%, from the third quarter of 2022 to the third quarter of 2023 was primarily driven by decreased activity for a consumer industry customer. For the first nine months of 2023, Wafer Services revenue decreased by $7.2 million, or 13%, primarily driven by $8.2 million of incremental one-time revenue related to a new contract signed with a customer in the first quarter of 2022, partially offset by a $1.0 million increase attributable to continued strengthening of the automotive and medical end markets. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue increased $13.4 million to $57.5 million for the third quarter of 2023 from $44.0 million for the third quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by increases in labor costs of $4.7 million, outside services costs of $2.3 million, and warranty maintenance of $1.6 million. For the first nine months of 2023, cost of revenue increased to $160.2 million from $138.4 million for the first nine months of 2022. The increase of $21.8 million was primarily attributable to increases in labor costs of $15.0 million, outside services costs of $6.1 million, warranty maintenance of $1.7 million, royalty expense of $1.3 million, and raw material costs of $1.2 million. In the first quarter of 2022, a change in contract terms with a significant Wafer Services customer resulted in an additional $10.9 million in cost of revenue recognized during the first nine months of 2022, partially offset by a $4.1 million adjustment to the net realizable value of wafer inventory, which lowered cost of goods sold in the first nine months of 2022 relative to the first nine months of 2023. Research and development expense Research and development expense decreased $0.3 million to $2.2 million for the third quarter of 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in software maintenance costs. For the first nine months of 2023, research and development expense increased to $7.3 million from $7.2 million for the first nine months of 2022. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in labor costs as a result of our continued investment in internal personnel. Selling, general and administrative expense Selling, general and administrative expense increased to $16.1 million for the third quarter of 2023, from $10.8 million for the third quarter of 2022. The increase of $5.3 million was primarily attributable to increases of $3.8 million in external fees, primarily consisting of management and operations consulting services, $1.0 million in labor costs as a result of the Company's continued investment in internal personnel, and $0.5 million in bad debt expense net of recoveries. For the first nine months of 2023, selling, general and administrative expense increased to $48.8 million from $33.3 million for the first nine months of 2022. The increase of $15.6 million was primarily attributable to increases of $8.0 million in external fees, primarily consisting of management and operations consulting services, $3.3 million in labor costs as a result of the Company's continued investment in internal personnel, and $4.1 million in bad debt expense, net of recoveries. 32 Table of Contents Interest expense Interest expense increased to $2.5 million for the third quarter of 2023 from $1.3 million for the third quarter of 2022. The increase of $1.2 million was primarily the result of increased amounts outstanding under the Revolver and a higher average interest rate in the third quarter of 2023 as compared to the third quarter of 2022. For the first nine months of 2023, interest expense increased to $7.9 million from $3.4 million for the first nine months of 2022. The increase of $4.5 million was primarily the result of increased amounts outstanding under the Revolver and a higher average interest rate on the Revolver in the first nine months of 2023 as compared to the first nine months of 2022. Income tax (benefit) expense Income tax benefit was $0.1 million for the third quarter of 2023 compared to income tax expense of $0.1 million for the third quarter of 2022. The effective income tax rate for the third quarter of 2023 was 1.4%, compared to an effective income tax rate of (1.4)% for the third quarter of 2022. Income tax benefit was $0.1 million for the first nine months of 2023 as compared to less than $0.1 million of tax benefit for the first nine months of 2022. The effective income tax rate for the first nine months of 2023 was 0.4%, compared to an effective income tax rate of 0.1% for the first nine months of 2022. Our effective tax rates for the third quarters of 2023 and 2022 and the first nine months of 2023 and 2022 differ from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to application of a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets resulting from our assessment of our ability to utilize those deferred tax assets in future periods. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased to $1.0 million for the third quarter of 2023 from $0.4 million for the third quarter of 2022, and increased to $3.7 million for the first nine months of 2023 from $2.1 million for the first nine months of 2022. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects the net income of Oxbow Realty, LLC ("Oxbow Realty"), the variable interest entity ("VIE"), that we consolidate and represents the economic interest in the profits and losses of the VIE that the owners of our shareholders' equity do not legally have rights or obligations to. The increase in the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily relates to increased interest income from the failed sale leaseback transaction with SkyWater. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.5 million to $8.3 million for the third quarter of 2023 from $3.8 million for the third quarter of 2022. For the first nine months of 2023, Adjusted EBITDA increased $29.3 million to $26.7 million from $(2.6) million for the first nine months of 2022. The increases in both periods reflect increased revenues at higher margins as a result of the overall growth in our Advanced Technology Services, partially offset by increased labor and infrastructure costs as we continue to scale our business to meet the demands of our customers. For a discussion of adjusted EBITDA as well as a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, see the section below entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measure." 33 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our ability to execute our operating strategy is dependent on our ability to maintain liquidity and continue to access capital through our Revolver (as defined in Note 6 Debt to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) and other sources of financing. Our current business plans indicate that we may require additional liquidity to continue our operations for the next twelve months from the date the interim consolidated financial statements are issued. We have identified specific actions that can be taken to reduce operating costs and improve cash flows, including reductions in spending and delays in hiring personnel. If such actions are taken, it may require us to decrease our level of planned investment in new products and technologies, or discontinue further expansion of our business. We also obtained a support letter from Oxbow Industries to provide funding in an amount up to $12.5 million, if necessary, to enable us to meet our obligations as they become due for the twelve months following the date the interim condensed consolidated financial statements are issued. Based upon our operational forecasts, our cash and cash equivalents on hand, our available borrowings on the Revolver, potential cost reduction measures we could take, and the support letter from Oxbow Industries, as needed, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the next twelve months from the date the interim condensed consolidated financial statements are issued. Additionally, we could seek additional equity or debt financing, including a refinancing and/or expansion of the Revolver. However, we cannot provide any assurance that additional funds will be available when needed, or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us. To the extent that our current resources and plans to reduce expenses are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. Our ability to do so depends on prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We had $17.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, not including cash held by a VIE that we consolidate, and availability under our Revolver of $43.8 million at October 1, 2023. We are subject to certain liquidity and EBITDA covenants under our Loan Agreement, as outlined in the section below entitled " Indebtedness." ATM Program For the first nine months of 2023, SkyWater sold approximately 2.1 million shares under the ATM Program (as defined in Note 8 Shareholders' Equity) at an average sale price of $10.10 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of approximately $21.0 million before deducting sales commissions and fees of approximately $0.6 million. SkyWater used the net proceeds to fund its operations. Capital Expenditures For the first nine months of 2023, we spent approximately $6.8 million on capital expenditures, including purchases of property, equipment and software. The majority of these capital expenditures relate to our foundry expansion at our Minnesota facility and the development of our advanced packaging capabilities at our Florida facility. We anticipate our cash on hand and the availability under our Revolver will provide the funds needed to meet our operating needs and anticipated capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2023. We have approximately $6.5 million of contractual commitments relating to various anticipated capital expenditures outstanding at October 1, 2023 that we expect to pay during the remainder of 2023, through cash on hand, draws against our Revolver, or other financing arrangements. 34 Table of Contents Working Capital Historically, we have depended on cash on hand, funds available under our Revolver and, in the future, we may need to depend on additional debt and equity financings to fund our growth strategy, working capital needs, and capital expenditures. We believe that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide cash, as required, to support our strategy, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, lease obligations and working capital for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain future debt or equity financings on commercially reasonable terms sufficient to meet our cash requirements. At October 1, 2023, the outstanding balance of our Revolver was $48.5 million, and our remaining availability under the Revolver was $43.8 million. As of October 1, 2023, we were in compliance with applicable financial covenants of the Revolver and expect to be in compliance with applicable financial covenants over the next twelve months. The following table sets forth general information derived from our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the first nine months of 2023 and 2022: First Nine Months Ended October 1, 2023 October 2, 2022 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (21,662) $ (6,008) Net cash used in investing activities $ (4,476) $ (11,725) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 13,459 $ 14,138 Cash and Cash Equivalents At October 1, 2023 and January 1, 2023, we had $17.3 million and $30.0 million of cash and cash equivalents, respectively. The VIE we consolidate did not maintain any cash and cash equivalents at either October 1, 2023 or October 2, 2022. Operating Activities Cash flow from operations is driven by changes in the working capital needs associated with the various goods and services we provide, and expenses related to the infrastructure in place to support revenue generation. Working capital is primarily affected by changes in accounts receivable, contract assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and contract liabilities, all of which are partially correlated to and impacted by changes in the timing and volume of activities performed in our facilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $21.7 million during the first nine months of 2023, an increase of $15.7 million from $6.0 million of cash used in operating activities during the first nine months of 2022. The increase in cash used in operating activities during the first nine months of 2023 was driven primarily by increases in our accounts receivable and contract assets and a decrease in our contract liabilities during the period. Investing Activities Our investments in capital expenditures are intended to enable revenue growth in new and expanding markets, help us meet product demand, and increase our manufacturing efficiencies and capacity. Net cash used in investing activities was $4.5 million during the first nine months of 2023, a decrease of $7.2 million from $11.7 million during the first nine months of 2022. The decrease in cash used in investing activities during the first nine months of 2023 reflects decreased capital spending on property and equipment compared to the same period in 2022. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities decreased to $13.5 million during the first nine months of 2023 from net cash provided by financing activities of $14.1 million during the first nine months of 2022. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities during the first nine months of 2023 was primarily driven by the net pay downs of our Revolver, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under our ATM Program and employee stock purchase program. 35 Table of Contents Indebtedness Sale Leaseback Transaction On September 29, 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell the land and building of our Minnesota facility to Oxbow Realty, an entity controlled by our principal stockholder, CMI Oxbow Partners, LLC, for $39.0 million, less applicable transaction costs of $1.5 million and transaction services fees paid to Oxbow Realty of $2.0 million and paid a guarantee fee to our principal stockholder of $2.0 million. We subsequently entered into an agreement to leaseback the land and building from Oxbow Realty for initial payments of $0.4 million per month over 20 years. The monthly payments are subject to a 2% increase each year during the term of the lease. We are also required to make certain customary payments constituting "additional rent," including certain monthly reserve, insurance and tax payments, in accordance with the terms of the lease agreement. Due to our continuing involvement in the property, we are accounting for the transactions as a failed sale leaseback (a financing transaction). Under failed sale leaseback accounting, we are deemed the owner of the land and building with the proceeds received recorded as a financial obligation. Revolving Credit Agreement On December 28, 2022, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Siena Lending Group LLC ("Siena"). The Loan Agreement provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $100.0 million with scheduled maturity date of December 28, 2025 (the "Revolver"). The Company incurred $4.3 million of debt issuance costs, which will be amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Revolver. As of October 1, 2023, we had borrowings of $48.5 million under the Revolver. Borrowing under the Loan Agreement is limited by a borrowing base of specified advance rates applicable to billed accounts receivable, contract assets, inventory and equipment, subject to various conditions, limits and any availability block as provided in the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement also provides for borrowing base sublimits applicable to each of contract assets and equipment. Under certain circumstances, Siena may from time to time establish and revise reserves against the borrowing base and/or the maximum revolving facility amount. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a rate that depends upon the type of borrowing, whether a term secured overnight financing rate ("SOFR") loan or base rate loan, plus the applicable margin. The term SOFR loan rate is a forward-looking term rate based on SOFR for a tenor of one month on the applicable day, subject to a minimum of 2.5% per annum. The base rate is the greatest of the prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and 7.0% per annum. The applicable margin is an applicable percentage based on the fix charged coverage ratio that ranges from 5.25% to 6.25% per annum for term SOFR loans and ranges from 4.25% to 5.25% per annum for base rate loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and financial and other covenants and conditions. Subject to certain cure rights, the Loan Agreement requires $10.0 million in minimum EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement) calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, prohibits unfunded capital expenditures in excess of $15.0 million calculated as of the last day of each calendar month commencing April 30, 2023 for the preceding twelve calendar months, and requires a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, measured on a trailing 12 month basis, of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 if our liquidity is less than $15.0 million. In addition, the Loan Agreement places certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness (other than permitted indebtedness), to create liens or other encumbrances (other than liens relating to permitted indebtedness), to sell or otherwise dispose of assets, to merge or consolidate with other entities, and to make certain restricted payments, including payments of dividends to our stockholders. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Loan Agreement as of October 1, 2023. Due to a lockbox clause in the Loan Agreement, the outstanding loan balance is required to be serviced with working capital, and the debt is classified as short-term on the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Tool Financing Loans The Company, from time to time, enters into financing arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of manufacturing tools and other equipment. Between the fourth quarter of 2022 and the third quarter of 2023, SkyWater entered into arrangements to sell manufacturing tools and other equipment to financing lenders for $9.6 million. These agreements include bargain purchase options at the end of the lease terms which the Company intends to exercise. These transactions represent failed sale leasebacks with the fixed assets retained on the Company's balance sheet and the proceeds received recorded as financial obligations. 36 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations There were no significant changes outside the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Material Cash Requirements" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023. JOBS Act We qualify as an "emerging growth company" pursuant to the provisions of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 ("JOBS Act"). For as long as we are an "emerging growth company," we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies," including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory "say-on-pay" votes on executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. The JOBS Act also permits an emerging growth company like us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new, or revised, accounting standards and, therefore, we will not be subject to the same new, or revised, accounting standards as other public companies that comply with such new, or revised, accounting standards on a non-delayed basis. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In connection with preparing our interim condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expense, and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes are relevant at the time we prepared our condensed consolidated financial statements. On a regular basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our condensed consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ materially from our assumptions and estimates. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, valuation of inventory, equity-based compensation and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2023, except as set forth below. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when control of promised goods or services are transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. To recognize revenues, we apply the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the customer contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the customer contract; and (5) recognize revenues when or as we satisfy a performance obligation. We account for a contract when it has approval and commitment from all parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of transaction price is probable. At contract inception, we apply judgment in determining customers' abilities and intentions to pay amounts entitled to us when due based on a variety of factors including customers' historical payment experience. We primarily derive revenue from the performance of Advanced Technology Services ("ATS") wafer manufacturing process development services and the manufacture and delivery of wafers via Wafer Services. 37 Table of Contents ATS - ATS contracts are focused on the performance of wafer manufacturing process development services, the output of which is a manufacturing plan that defines the steps and activities need to produce our customers' wafers at high volumes and with high yields. Wafer manufacturing development services do not include services to manufacture wafers for our customers at scale. ATS contracts are complex and wafer manufacturing development services are often either the lone performance obligation in an ATS contract, or the performance obligation to which the majority of the contract value is allocated. We have both fixed price and time-and-materials contracts with our ATS customers. Our ATS customers receive the benefits of these services, and revenue from performance of these services are recognized, over time as we perform them. Revenue on fixed price contracts is recognized using either an output or input method based upon the method that best measures the value of the services performed for our customers. Whether we use an input or output method is judgmental and subject to thorough analysis of the terms of each fixed price contract. We consistently use either our output method or our input method for similar performance obligations and in similar circumstances. Our output method of revenue recognition evaluates the steps and activities needed to complete manufacturing development services and relies on surveys of steps and activities completed and partially completed as of the reporting date in relation to the current manufacturing development plans to measure the level of progress on the service. There are many steps and activities included in our manufacturing development plans. The time and effort to complete the steps and activities are very similar which demonstrates a level of uniformity. This uniformity accurately conveys the steps and activities successfully validated during development in relation to the development plan and therefore provides a faithful representation of the progress achieved on wafer manufacturing development services. Based on the level of progress, we record the proportion of the transaction price allocated to wafer manufacturing development services as revenue in the period. Our manufacturing development plans are subject to change as data is analyzed and the plans are revised. Development of production plans are technical endeavors and adjustment to manufacturing development plans may impact the percentage of progress achieved and result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. We use the input method of revenue recognition for larger customer programs that are focused on development of new applications or whose manufacturing processes will rely on new or emerging technologies. Wafer manufacturing development services for these customers is inherently more complex, requiring more changes to manufacturing development plans over the period we perform the services. Given the level of technical complexity and the expectation that there will be more changes to manufacturing plans as compared to other customer programs, we measure progress for larger customer programs by comparing costs incurred to date to estimated total cost required to complete wafer manufacturing development services. We record that proportion of the transaction price allocated to wafer manufacturing development services as revenue in the period. Costs include labor costs, manufacturing costs, material costs, and other direct costs incurred while performing the services. The estimation of total costs requires significant judgment and any adjustment to our estimates of total cost may impact the proportion of progress achieved and could result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. When contracts are fixed price, we complete the evaluation of onerous ATS contracts as of the reporting date for each separate contract, not for separate performance obligations in each contract. We recognize losses on onerous ATS contracts depending on whom our customer is based on the following: U.S. Federal Government We designate all ATS contracts with the U.S. Federal Government as production-type service contracts; accordingly, we accrue liabilities for onerous contracts in the period it becomes evident the contract will result in a loss. Customers other than the U.S. Federal Government As we generally develop wafer manufacturing plans for our customers under ATS contracts, our ATS contracts with our non-U.S. Federal Government ATS customers do not represent production-type service contracts; accordingly, we recognize losses as the losses are incurred; we do not accrue liabilities for anticipated losses. 38 Table of Contents Wafer Services - Wafers are goods that are generally customer specific, highly customized and have no alternative use to us. Our Wafer Services customers contract with us to manufacture wafers based on their manufacturing design specifications. The terms of our Wafer Services contracts dictate when control over wafers is transferred to our customers. For contracts where orders are non-cancelable and we thereby maintain enforceable rights to customer performance, including rights to payment for partially completed wafers at reasonable margins, control over wafers transfers to our customers as we manufacture wafers. For these contracts, we recognize revenue using an input method. This method measures the percentage of completion of wafers still in the manufacturing process by comparing total costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs to manufacture the wafers. We record that proportion of the transaction price as revenue in the period. Our input method provides the best method of progress as it considers the steps and activities needed to manufacture a wafer and the costs associated with those steps. Costs include labor costs, manufacturing costs, material costs, and other direct costs required to manufacture our customers' wafers. The estimation of total costs requires significant judgment and any adjustment to our estimates of cost to complete manufacturing may impact the proportion of completion achieved and could result in cumulative adjustments of revenue. When our contracts allow for orders to be canceled and we do not maintain enforceable rights to customer performance on canceled orders, including a right to payment for partially completed wafers at reasonable margins, control of wafers transfers to our customers at the point in time when wafer manufacturing is complete, and wafers have been shipped to the customer. In these instances, we recognize revenue based on the agreed shipping terms with our customers. We have a long-standing relationship with a significant Wafer Services customer. The terms and conditions of this relationship have evolved over time and have dictated the manner in which we recognized revenue for the manufacture of their wafers. Prior to 2021, transfer of control of wafers, and revenue recognition occurred, as completed wafers were shippedto the customer. In 2021, this customerrequested that it be able to purchase wafers and for those wafers to be shipped to them at a later date of their choosing. With the introduction of these bill and hold terms, transfer of control of the wafers, and revenue recognition occurred, as wafers completed post-manufacturing electrical testing and became available for shipment to the customer. In March 2022, we signed a new contract with this customer pursuant to which orders became non-cancelable and thus there was a right to specific performance by the customer, including an enforceable right to payment for the cost of partially completed orders plus a reasonable profit margin. Given that the wafers produced for this customer are for customer-specific applications with no alternative use, the introduction of these contract terms demonstrated that control of the wafers transfers to the customer over time as the wafers are manufactured pursuant to Topic 606. Accordingly, our revenue recognition method for wafers produced for this customer transitioned from point in time to over-time using our input method of revenue recognition. In March 2022, we recorded a one-time cumulative adjustment to revenue of $8.3 million for wafers still being manufactured at the time the new contract became enforceable. Between 2021 and March 2022, wafers manufactured while bill and hold provisions were in place, were separately identified as belonging to this customer, the wafers were denoted as ready for shipment to this customer in their then current form, and we did not have the ability to direct or sell the wafers to a different customer. Upon completion of post-manufacturing electrical testing, we had the right to invoice this customer. This customer also obtained legal title and the risks and rewards of ownership at this point. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 39 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure Our interim condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement our interim condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, an additional non-GAAP financial measure is provided and reconciled in the table below. We provide supplemental non-GAAP financial information that our management regularly evaluates to provide additional insight to investors as supplemental information to our U.S. GAAP results. Our management uses adjusted EBITDA to make informed operating decisions, complete strategic planning, prepare annual budgets, and evaluate the Company's and our management's performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it provides a baseline for analyzing trends in our business and excludes certain items that may not be indicative of our core operating results. The use of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, the comparable U.S. GAAP measure. In addition, because this non-GAAP financial measure is not determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, other companies, including our peers, may calculate their non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do. As a result, the non-GAAP financial measure presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is not a financial measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We define adjusted EBITDA as net (loss) income before net interest expense, income tax (benefit) expense, depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation and certain other items that we do not view as indicative of our ongoing performance, including net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, certain management consulting fees, CHIPS Act specialist fees, management transition expense, and SkyWater Florida start-up costs. We believe adjusted EBITDA is a useful performance measure to our investors because it allows for an effective evaluation of our operating performance when compared to other companies, including our peers, without regard to financing methods or capital structures. We exclude the items listed above from net income or loss in arriving at adjusted EBITDA because these amounts can vary substantially within our industry depending on the accounting methods and policies used, book values of assets, capital structures, and the methods by which assets were acquired. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net (loss) income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain items excluded from adjusted EBITDA are significant components in understanding and assessing a company's financial performance, such as a company's cost of capital and tax structure, as well as the historic costs of depreciable assets, none of which are reflected in adjusted EBITDA. Our presentation of adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an indication that our results will be unaffected by the items excluded from adjusted EBITDA. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, unless otherwise expressly indicated. We continuously evaluate the non-GAAP financial measures we use, the manner in which non-GAAP financial measures are calculated, and the adjustments we make to GAAP results to derive our non-GAAP financial measures. In the third quarter of 2023, we made the following changes to adjusted EBITDA and revised prior period adjusted EBITDA to conform the calculation of adjusted EBITDA across all periods and provide comparability: Since the second quarter of 2023, we have incurred project-based, management consulting fees related to long-term transformation activities focused on improvement in automation and operational efficiency. Similarly, we have also incurred project-based specialist fees associated with our CHIPS Act application. Neither of these types of fees are required to run our business and, therefore, are incremental to our ongoing operations and are not a normal operating expense. Beginning in the third quarter of 2023, we began excluding these fees in the calculation of adjusted EBITDA. 40 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA, our most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Third Quarter Ended First Nine Months Ended October 1, 2023 October 2, 2022 October 1, 2023 October 2, 2022 (in thousands) Net loss attributable to SkyWater Technology, Inc. $ (7,568) $ (6,939) $ (20,431) $ (36,550) Interest expense 2,507 1,331 7,928 3,400 Income tax (benefit) expense (96) 87 (71) (44) Depreciation and amortization 7,092 7,083 21,651 20,740 EBITDA 1,935 1,562 9,077 (12,454) Equity-based compensation(1) 1,853 1,699 5,673 7,033 Management transition expense(2) 835 SkyWater Florida start-up costs(3) 114 674 Management consulting fees (4) 3,522 6,022 CHIPS Act specialist fees (5) 1,320 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (6) 966 440 3,739 2,125 Adjusted EBITDA $ 8,276 $ 3,815 $ 26,666 $ (2,622) __________________ (1)Represents non-cash equity-based compensation expense. (2)Represents severance and other costs related to the reorganization of the manufacturing and operations leadership team. (3)Represents start-up costs associated with our 200 mm heterogeneous integration facility in Kissimmee, Florida, which includes legal fees, recruiting expenses, retention awards and facility start-up expenses. These expenses are not representative of our expected ongoing costs. Effective 2023, our Kissimmee, Florida plant is up and running and no longer in its start-up phase. (4)Represents project-based management consulting fees related to long-term transformation activities focused on improvement in automation and operational efficiency. (5)Represents project-based specialist fees related to our CHIPS Act application process. (6)Represents net income attributable to our VIE, which was formed for the purpose of purchasing the land and building of our operating facility in Bloomington, Minnesota headquarters. Since depreciation and interest expense are excluded from net loss in our adjusted EBITDA financial measure, we also exclude the net income attributable to the VIE. 41 Table of Contents