Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further discussion). As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent temporary store closures, our revenues, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to pay vendors and landlords according to standard terms have been materially adversely impacted. Accordingly, our management has determined that there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months and our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements as of and for the year ended February 1, 2020. Although having a going concern note in our financial statements is an Event of Default under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement, we have obtained waivers of such defaults as described in further detail in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below. We are actively negotiating with vendors and landlords regarding restructuring payment of unpaid accounts payable and rent, but there is no assurance those discussions will be successful. We are also actively exploring additional sources of financing to provide us with additional liquidity and other strategic alternatives, including a sale of the company. However, there is no assurance that such efforts will be successful. As stores have reopened, the traffic at our stores has steadily increased, but has not yet recovered to pre-pandemic levels. Although omnichannel sales have remained strong, they have not compensated for the loss of in-store sales. Sales continue to recover as our stores reopen, but remain well below last year. 3 Table of Contents Merger Agreement On January 31, 2020, the Company announced that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), by and among Stratosphere Holdco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Parent), Stratosphere Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (Merger Sub), and the Company, providing for the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the Merger), with the Company surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent is an affiliate of Kingswood Capital Management, LLC ("Kingswood") and, at the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, certain interests of Parent would have been owned by one or more investment funds managed by Kingswood and an entity managed by Jay Stein, the Chairman of the Company's Board. Under the Merger Agreement, stockholders of the Company would have received $0.90 in cash for each share of Company common stock. The Merger was unanimously approved by the Company's Board of Directors on January 30, 2020. The Merger was subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders. On April 16, 2020, the Merger was terminated by the mutual agreement among the parties thereto. See Note 14. "Merger Agreement" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Merger Agreement. KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Our mission is to provide current season, first-quality fashion apparel, shoes, accessories and home dcor merchandise at prices comparable to off-price retail chains in a convenient, attractive and easy-to-shop location. We believe our success and future growth will depend on the consistent execution of the following: Having a desirable, current season assortment of designer, brand-name, exclusive and proprietary fashion apparel, accessories and home dcor merchandise, Sourcing a wide range of key brands and maintaining strong partnerships with the vendors representing those brands, Offering everyday low prices on fashion merchandise through buying methodologies and low-cost operations, Attracting repeat and new customers through marketing and advertising programs, Having an attractive store appearance, appealing merchandise presentation and on-demand customer service, like a specialty store, Maintaining current locations in regional, community and neighborhood shopping centers serving a more affluent customer, and Building and growing our omnichannel business. TARGET CUSTOMER Our target customer is a woman who is both style conscious and value seeking. She is typically married and college educated. She may be multi-cultural, works at least part-time in a professional position and has above-average household income. MERCHANDISING, PURCHASING AND PRICING Our fashion assortment is driven primarily by seasonal fashion trends and a focus on name brand and designer merchandise, complemented by a select program of private label and proprietary/exclusive merchandise. During 2019, approximately seven percent of our sales were from private label or proprietary/exclusive merchandise. 4 Table of Contents Our merchants purchase products from approximately 900 vendors. One of our vendors accounted for approximately seven percent of our total purchases during 2019. We buy a majority of our merchandise at the same time and from many of the same manufacturers as traditional department/specialty stores; however, we generally do not require the same level of front and back-end vendor concessions, such as advertising allowances, return privileges and markdown allowances, which are common and significant in the department store industry. As a result, we believe that our buyers can negotiate more favorable upfront pricing terms from our vendors. We also purchase merchandise opportunistically when we believe a combination of the product and the price makes it a compelling addition to our assortment. In both instances, we pass our savings on to our customers through everyday low pricing targeted to be competitive with off-price retail chains. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our merchandise vendors may have been negatively impacted by the financial difficulties of other retailers, thereby creating concerns about vendors' ability to provide us with payment terms or merchandise that is suitable to our brand. Our shoe department and vintage luxury handbag inventory are exclusively supplied and owned by DSW, Inc. (DSW) and LXRandCo, Inc. (LXR), respectively. DSWs and LXRs buyers determine each seasons fashion footwear and handbag assortment, respectively. Our commissions from the sales of these licensed departments are included in net sales on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The following table sets forth the percentage of our sales by major merchandise category, including shoe department sales, for the fiscal years indicated: 2019 2018 Womens apparel 49 % 48 % Mens 18 % 19 % Home 10 % 10 % Accessories 9 % 9 % Shoes 9 % 9 % Other 5 % 5 % Total 100 % 100 % LOCATIONS AND STORE APPEARANCE On February 1, 2020, we operated 283 stores in 30 states and an online retail selling site. Our stores are located in the Northeast, Midwest, Southeast, Texas and the Southwest. We are most fully concentrated in the Southeast and Texas where 182 of our stores are located. Most locations are in neighborhoods, community and regional shopping centers frequented by a more affluent customer. Our optimal co-tenants within these shopping centers cater to a similar target customer and include highly-frequented retail formats such as other apparel retailers, higher-end grocers and restaurants. All Stein Mart locations, including the corporate headquarters and distribution centers, are leased. On March 18, 2020, we temporarily closed all of our stores through March 31, 2020. On March 31, 2020, based on guidance from federal, state and local government and health authorities, and in the interest of the health and safety of our customers and associates, we extended the temporary closure of all stores beyond the previously announced March 31 date. We started reopening stores on April 23, 2020 as government jurisdictions have allowed, and as of the date of this filing, we have reopened substantially all of our 281 stores in limited capacity (through reduced hours and/or social distancing measures limiting the number of customers in our stores). In addition, as of June 10, 2020, we have negotiated amendments for approximately 220 of our properties and are in current negotiations with 41 of our landlords to amend our lease terms to defer a portion of the rent or other expenses due during the time period that our properties were closed and we are actively seeking to negotiate with our other landlords, although there is no assurance that we will be successful. We selectively seek additional store locations that strengthen our portfolio in current as well as new markets. We utilize regional tenant representative brokers to help us identify potential sites for new or relocated stores. New and relocated store decisions are supported by independent sales forecasts, and are approved by a real estate committee made up of senior-level executives. We are not planning to open any new stores in fiscal 2020. 5 Table of Contents Our typical store is approximately 34,000 gross square feet. They have a racetrack design, conveniently centralized check-out and individual dressing rooms. We display merchandise in lifestyle groupings of apparel and accessories, which we believe enables our customers to locate desired merchandise in a manner that encourages multiple purchases. We seek to create excitement in our stores through the continual flow of fashion merchandise, targeted sales promotions, store layout, merchandise presentation and the quality, value and depth of our merchandise assortment. OMNICHANNEL CAPABILITIES We sell merchandise offerings on our website at www.steinmart.com . We continually evolve our online content and capabilities to more fully integrate our online business with our stores to provide our customers with an enhanced omnichannel experience. Website offerings include many of the same products offered in our stores, as well as exclusive online products that have greatly expanded as a result of increased drop shipments from vendors. Website orders can be shipped from our dedicated warehouse, our stores, or, in some cases, directly from our vendors. Another option the website offers is our buy online, pick up in store service ("BOPIS"). In our stores, we have "endless aisle" mobile technology to assist customers in locating merchandise across the enterprise and then placing an online order. The website also provides information for customers regarding store locations, brands, products and selected sales promotion activity. Customers may also apply for our credit card, sign up to be SMart Rewards loyalty members, sign up for email notifications and purchase gift cards online. Omnichannel sales, defined as all online sales regardless of fulfillment channel, amounted to approximately 6.0 percent and 5.3 percent of our total sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our Ecommerce software and warehouse distribution are managed by two third-party providers. CUSTOMER SERVICE Our stores offer many services typically found in better department or specialty stores, such as endless aisle mobile technology to locate product for customers and order it online, a SMart Rewards loyalty program, co-branded and private label credit card programs and electronic gift cards. Each store is staffed with a number of sales associates to provide on-demand customer service. MARKETING Our marketing efforts are focused on driving brand awareness, communicating our value proposition and driving traffic for periodic short-duration events. Our strategy is designed to energize our existing customers as well as acquire new customers. We engage in periodic market research, including customer surveys, to identify how best to reach each of these audiences and, in consultation with our outside advertising, media planning and direct-marketing agencies, we adjust our marketing plans accordingly. To reach a broader audience, we continue to evolve our media mix to decrease newspaper, maintain direct mail, and increase digital and broadcast media, as increased branded television advertising drives brand awareness and customers to our online site. During 2019, we implemented a campaign management tool to execute automated marketing campaigns based on customer behavior. Utilizing point-of-sale and online browsing and spending information, we are creating targeted, personalized email and direct mail messaging focused on individuals' preferences. LOYALTY PROGRAM We evolved our customer loyalty program in October 2019 by combining our Credit Card and Preferred Customer programs into a single loyalty program called SMart Rewards. The enhanced program allows Stein Mart credit cardholders to earn 2 points for every $1 spent at Stein Mart, and Elite cardholders ($500 annual spend) earn 4 points for every $1 spent. All cardholders receive a $10 reward, called Stein Mart SMart Cash, for every 1,000 points earned. We have both co-branded MasterCard and Private Label Credit Cards (together, Stein Mart Credit Cards) available for our customers based on credit approvals. All Stein Mart credit cardholders participate in our SMart Rewards loyalty program. While the primary purpose of offering our credit cards is to increase customer loyalty and drive sales, we also receive credit card revenue through our program agreement with our business partner, Synchrony Financial (Synchrony). 6 Table of Contents Our credit cards are issued by Synchrony in accordance with our Amended and Restated Co-Brand and Private Label Credit Card Consumer Program Agreement (the Agreement). Synchrony bears all credit risk associated with the cards and provides us certain direct financial benefits based on sales on the cards and other factors. On August 21, 2019, we entered into an amendment to our Agreement with Synchrony whereby Synchrony waived its rights to require us to post cash reserves to cure our failure to satisfy one or more of the quarterly financial covenants specified in the Agreement for periods through October 31, 2020 (the Exemption Period). As consideration for Synchronys entry into this amendment, we agreed to reduce the amount of fees paid to us by Synchrony under the Agreement from September 1, 2019 through the end of the Exemption Period. COMPETITION We operate in an intensely competitive retail industry. Our primary competitors for both our stores and online are department and specialty stores, as well as conventional off-price retail chains. From our customers perspective, we believe that we differentiate ourselves from department and specialty stores with our (i) lower initial pricing, (ii) convenient locations in shopping centers and (iii) assortments that are more selective than department stores and more varied than specialty stores. We also believe that we differentiate ourselves from typical off-price retail chains by offering (i) primarily current season first-quality merchandise carried by better department or specialty stores, (ii) a stronger merchandising statement, consistently offering more depth of color and size in individual stock-keeping units, (iii) merchandise presentation and customer service more comparable to upscale retailers, (iv) competitive price levels and (v) expanded omnichannel capabilities. DISTRIBUTION Our logistics network consists of consolidation centers (CCs) located in the Atlanta, Los Angeles and New Jersey areas, and store distribution centers (SDCs) located in the Atlanta, Dallas and Los Angeles areas. Approximately 55 percent of the vendor shipments are aggregated at the CCs and then shipped to the SDCs with the remaining 45 percent moving directly from vendors to SDCs. The SDCs receive, check and prepare the merchandise to ensure it is floor ready for our stores. The SDCs are automated and virtually all of our vendors are electronic data interchange (EDI) capable so we are able to cross-dock a high percentage of our receipts. Store deliveries are made by contract carriers once or twice a week, depending on location, store volume and the time of year. The New Jersey CC is the only facility managed by a third-party logistics provider. EMPLOYEES As of February 1, 2020, our workforce consisted of approximately 9,000 employees (equivalent to approximately 5,000 40-hour employees). Each of our stores employs an average of 30 persons. The number of employees fluctuates during the year based on the selling season. We have no employees subject to collective bargaining agreements. In March 2020, we furloughed most store associates and a significant number of associates in our supply chain network and corporate offices due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As our offices and stores have reopened, most corporate employees have returned from furlough; however, a significant number of our store and supply chain employees remain on furlough. As of May 30, 2020, our workforce consisted of approximately 8,400 employees (equivalent to approximately 2,400 40-hour employees), with approximately 5,200 furloughed. We have reduced the number of corporate and store employees following the reopening of the stores as part of an overall effort to reduce expenses and improve profitability. SEASONALITY Our business is seasonal in nature. Sales and profitability are historically higher in the first and fourth quarters of the fiscal year, which include the spring and holiday seasons. TRADEMARKS We own the federally registered trademark Stein Mart , together with a number of other marks used in conjunction with our private label merchandise program. We believe that our trademarks are important, but, with the exception of Stein Mart , not critical to our merchandising strategy. 7 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION The United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Proxy Statements, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those filings are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at http://ir.steinmart.com (click on SEC Filings). Also available free of charge on the investor relations website are the Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as the Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Bylaws and the Conflict Minerals Policy (click on Charters & Documents). Paper copies of these items are available free of charge upon written request to Stein Mart, Inc., 1200 Riverplace Boulevard, Jacksonville, FL 32207, Attention: Investor Relations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. In evaluating us, the risks and uncertainties described below and the matters described in Forward-Looking Statements should be considered carefully. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, liquidity, ability to continue as a going concern and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. The COVID-19 pandemic is having a material adverse effect on our business and liquidity. The COVID-19 pandemic is having an unprecedented impact on the U.S. economy as federal, state and local governments react to this public health crisis, which has created significant uncertainties. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the material adverse effect of the pandemic on the economy, our supply chain partners, our employees and customers, customer sentiment in general, and our stores. In March 2020, we announced the temporary closure of all stores for an unknown period of time and significant actions taken to mitigate the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our cash flows to protect our business and associates for the long-term in response to the crisis. Such actions include targeted reductions in discretionary operating expenses such as advertising and payroll expenses, including furloughing a significant number of our employees and temporarily reducing the payroll of remaining employees, reducing capital expenditures, reducing merchandise receipts, and utilizing funds available under our Revolving Credit Facility and Third Promissory Note. Further, we have sought and are seeking extended payment terms with all vendors, including merchandise, expense and rent vendors. We are unable to predict when our sales will reach pre-pandemic levels or if additional periods of store closures will be needed or mandated. In addition, our merchandise vendors may have been negatively impacted by the financial difficulties of other retailers, thereby creating concerns about vendors' ability to provide us with payment terms or merchandise that is suitable to our brand. Continued impacts of the pandemic have materially adversely impacted our near-term and long-term revenues, earnings, liquidity and cash flows, and has required significant actions as mentioned above. The extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration of the spread of the outbreak within the U.S., the impact on capital and financial markets and the related impact on consumer confidence and spending, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Continued impacts of the pandemic have had a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations during fiscal year 2020 and raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months. This situation is changing rapidly, and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and a continuation of negative financial trends would likely result in our inability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and liquidity as described above, our management has determined that there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months and our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements as of and for the year ended February 1, 2020. Although disclosing that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in our financial statements is considered to be an Event of Default under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement, we have obtained waivers of such defaults as described in further detail in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below. 8 Table of Contents If our operating results fail to improve, we could violate additional debt covenants and our liquidity would be further adversely impacted and we would need to secure additional sources of funding. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our borrowing base availability under our Credit Agreement and/or Term Loan, raise additional capital to fund our operations, or that debt or equity financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms or at all. If our operating results fail to improve, then our financial condition and lack of liquidity would render us unable to continue as a going concern. Our sales and operating results are affected by consumer sensitivity to economic conditions and world events. The retail apparel business is dependent upon consumer spending and, as a fashion retailer, we rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, of our sales. Economic factors affecting consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending include levels of employment, the housing market, the stock market, prevailing interest rates, tax policies, personal bankruptcies, energy costs and availability and cost of credit. Consumer confidence is also affected by both domestic and international events. In addition, widespread health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and civil unrest, could cause a loss of store traffic or otherwise cause consumers to cease making discretionary purchases or otherwise change consumer behaviors. Deterioration in the level of consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We face intense competition in the retail industry. We face intense competition for customers from department stores, specialty stores, regional and national off-price retail chains and internet and mail-order retailers. Many of these competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many department stores and other competitors have become more promotional and have reduced their price points. Certain department stores and certain of our vendors have opened outlet stores that offer merchandise at prices that are competitive with ours. If we fail to successfully compete, our profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected. Many of our competitors have significant Ecommerce sales. While we maintain an internet site, our omnichannel sales comprised approximately 6.0 percent of our total sales in 2019. One of our strategic priorities is to further develop our omnichannel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and Ecommerce shopping channels. These initiatives involve significant investments in IT systems and operational changes. In addition, our competitors are also investing in omnichannel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. If the implementation of our omnichannel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our profitability and operating results could be adversely affected. Unanticipated changes in fashion trends and changing consumer preferences may adversely affect our sales. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. Although we attempt to stay abreast of the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand, fashion trends can change rapidly and we may not accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient inventory levels and missed opportunities, or excess inventory levels and higher markdowns, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also lose customers and market share to those of our competitors who are able to better anticipate, identify and respond to such fashion trends and market demands. Because our success depends on our brand image, our business could be materially adversely affected if new product offerings are not accepted by our customers to the same extent as past product offerings. 9 Table of Contents We are dependent on our key vendors and factors for credit to acquire merchandise. Our business is dependent upon our ability to purchase merchandise at competitive terms through relationships with our vendors and their factors, as applicable. A significant change in vendor and factor support could limit our ability to acquire desired merchandise at competitive prices or payment terms. In addition, to the extent our vendors or factors are unable to operate or are otherwise negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be unable to acquire the merchandise we desire. If we continue to experience declining operating performance or liquidity challenges, vendors and their factors may seek protection against non-payment, such as accelerated payment terms or letters of credit. In addition, our merchandise vendors may have been negatively impacted by the financial difficulties of other retailers, thereby creating concerns about vendors' ability to provide us with payment terms. These factors could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, profitability and results of operations. Our ability to sustain profitable growth is subject to our successfully implementing strategic plans. The success of our strategic plans is dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other associates and our success with third parties. The loss of key management personnel could also negatively affect the execution of our business strategy. Additional changes may be required if we are unable to successfully implement our plans or if we adopt new strategies for the future. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that the implementation of changes will result in the benefits or costs savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all, which may result in an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Our advertising, marketing and promotional strategies may be ineffective. Our profitability and results of operations may be materially affected by the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select the right markets and media in which to advertise. In particular, we may not be successful in our efforts to create greater awareness of our stores and promotions, identify the most effective and efficient level of spending and specific media vehicle to use in each market or determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for our advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures. Our competitors marketing efforts may be more effective than ours. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenues. Further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving digital communication channels. We may be unable to raise additional capital, if needed, or to raise capital on favorable terms. If our existing cash, cash generated from operations, proceeds from our term loan, funds available under our revolving credit agreement and deferred payments to landlords and vendors were insufficient to fund our future operations, including capital expenditures, or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to obtain capital on acceptable terms when required could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to negotiate acceptable lease terms or concessions with current and potential landlords. As of June 10, 2020, we have negotiated amendments for approximately 220 of our properties to amend our lease terms to defer a portion of the rent or other expenses due during the time period that our properties were closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we are actively negotiating with the majority of our other landlords. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-negotiate lease concessions or deferrals. There is also no assurance that we will be able to negotiate satisfactory terms on new or replacement stores, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Underperforming stores can result in charges and expenses. If individual stores underperform to the point that their future estimated cash flows will not cover our un-depreciated fixed asset investment, we record an impairment charge. We also close certain underperforming stores, generally based on the lack of store profitability. Such closures subject us to costs, including lease termination payments and the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture, fixtures and inventory. For early terminations, we may incur charges for asset write-downs and remain liable for future lease obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Because of our focus on keeping our inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could force us to have higher inventory markdowns or result in lost revenue. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall season or cool weather during the spring season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Extreme weather can also disrupt our operations and result in store closures, loss of inventory and property damage. Certain regions of the country where our stores are located, such as California and the southeastern United States, experience extreme weather patterns such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires and flooding. While we maintain insurance that allows us to recover some losses from extreme weather events, extreme weather may have a negative effect on our profitability and results of operations. Our business is seasonal with our highest sales occurring in the first and fourth quarters, which include the spring and holiday seasons. Our annual operating results depend significantly upon sales generated during these quarters, and any factor that negatively affects these selling seasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. A lack of adequate sources of merchandise at acceptable prices may adversely affect our sales. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase fashion and brand-name merchandise and to do so at acceptable wholesale prices. We continuously seek out buying opportunities and compete for these opportunities with other retailers. In the event of a further decrease in retail sales and the resulting pressure on manufacturers, the opportunities to purchase merchandise could become limited by the consolidation or demise of merchandise vendors. Our ability to obtain merchandise also depends on manufacturers ability to obtain vendor financing through banks and factoring companies, which may be negatively impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent they are unable to secure sufficient credit, they may not be able to sell to us at acceptable terms. Although we do not depend on any single vendor or group of vendors and believe we can successfully compete in seeking out new vendors, the loss of key vendors could make it difficult for us to acquire sufficient quantities and an appropriate mix of merchandise, and to do so at acceptable prices could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. In addition, many of our vendors have been negatively impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could cause a further strain on our ability to secure merchandise. Increases in the price of merchandise could increase our costs, which could negatively affect our margins. The raw materials used to manufacture our goods are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, supply conditions, government regulations, trade restrictions, tariffs, sanctions and other unpredictable factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Our procurement of goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases, which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. Additionally, procurement of our merchandise is subject to increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, services and labor. All of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and increases in the cost of employee compensation and benefits could affect our financial results and cash flows. Our business is dependent on attracting and retaining quality employees. Many of our employees are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover; at times, we must find seasonal talent in sufficient numbers. We also face challenges in recruiting and retaining talent in other areas, including management, merchandising and information technology for reasons such as talent availability in our geographic areas and otherwise. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs, including hourly wages and costs of providing retirement, health and other employee benefits, and hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs, including health care legislation. Departures of key personnel could be viewed in a negative light by investors or analysts, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We are also unsure of the impact on our employee base as a result of the recent furloughs and salary reductions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the increased costs associated with hiring and training new employees could affect our results of operations. If we experience any business interruptions or disruptions in the distribution process, our profitability could be materially affected. We may not anticipate, respond adequately to or control all of the challenges of operating our distribution operations. In the event that orderly receipt and distribution of merchandise is disrupted by labor disputes at ports of entry, a health emergency such as the COVID-19 pandemic, civil unrest or other factors beyond our control, impeding the timeliness or fulfillment quality of the products being distributed, or any of our distribution centers becomes inaccessible, or is otherwise not fully usable, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. Much of the fashion and brand-name merchandise we acquire through vendors is sourced from various foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, raw material shortages, disruptions, strikes, work stoppages, health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability of our merchandise inventory. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which the current COVID-19 pandemic will have on our vendors. Current discussions regarding increases in tariffs or reductions in deductibility for merchandise sourced from foreign vendors could materially affect our inventory costs, and if we are unable to pass those increases on to our customers, the increases could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, customer satisfaction and results of operations. Additionally, we require our vendors and the third parties from whom they source merchandise to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and our own sourcing policies such as the use of labor practices that are considered ethical in the United States and not using fur in our merchandise. We do not have the ability to control our vendors, their manufacturers or their employment and business practices. The failure of our vendors and their suppliers to comply with applicable laws and our policies could affect the availability and price of merchandise, damage our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Failure of information technology could disrupt operations and harm our business. The operation of our business and the effective execution of our merchandising and distribution strategies as well as our financial reporting and online selling processes are dependent in large measure on the effectiveness of our information technology systems as well as those of external service providers. The reliability and capacity of these technology systems are critical and any disruptions may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by unfavorable results of legal proceedings. We are continually involved in various unresolved legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business involving matters such as pricing and wage and hour matters. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into arrangements to settle litigation. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of currently pending legal proceedings or claims, either individually or in the aggregate will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is possible that an unfavorable outcome could result and that some of these matters could be material to our profitability and results of operations for any particular period. We are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. Our business and that of our third-party service providers employ systems and websites that allow us to process credit card transactions containing personally identifiable information (PII), perform online Ecommerce and social media activities and store and transmit proprietary or confidential customer, employee, job applicant and other personal confidential information. Security and/or privacy breaches, acts of vandalism or terror, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming, and/or human error or other similar events expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks or intrusions. We rely heavily on outside suppliers and service providers for our Ecommerce and online credit card transactions, and this reliance exposes us to breaches through cyber-attacks on third-party systems we utilize for our business. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, our third-party service providers, our vendors, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant and additional costs, including, but not limited to the costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, engage third-party experts and consultants and comply with various applicable laws or industry standards regarding use and/or unauthorized disclosure of PII. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our customers as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. We also have obtained insurance coverage for cyber-security breaches to assist in covering costs incurred in the event of a significant breach. While we have implemented measures reasonably designed to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our systems or our third-party service providers systems are subject to privacy and security incidents, including attacks by unauthorized users, corruption by computer viruses or other malicious software code, emerging cybersecurity risks, inadvertent or intentional release of confidential or proprietary information, or other similar events. A significant data security incident would cause us to incur significant reputational harm and remediation costs, including liability for stolen customer, job applicant or employee information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring and/or other benefits to affected customers, job applicants or employees. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the breach or compromise of technology used by us to protect transaction or other data. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including a breach of us or of our third-party service providers that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. The legal and regulatory environment regarding PII, data security and privacy is increasingly complex at both the federal and state level, with heightened public awareness and scrutiny. Compliance with new data protection requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs, limit our ability to obtain and utilize PII of our customers in our business and expose us to litigation and regulatory risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We rely on a single supplier of shoes sold by our shoe department and disruptions with that supplier could materially affect our reputation, operations and financial results. We have an agreement with DSW to be the exclusive supplier of shoes sold in our shoe departments. We rely on DSW to determine the quantity and mix of shoes to be sold, the prices at which such items are to be sold and the fulfillment and continuing supply of inventory. If DSW is unable to provide us with sufficient amounts of inventory or inventory that meets the fashion preferences of our customers or if DSW is unable to continue being our supplier of shoes, we may attract fewer customers and experience a loss in net sales, which could materially affect our reputation, profitability and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Reductions in income and cash flow from our credit card arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows and our inability to meet financial covenants with our third-party provider could adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows. Our co-branded and private label credit cards under the Stein Mart brand are issued by a third party, Synchrony Bank (Synchrony). Synchrony extends credit directly to card holders, provides all servicing for the credit card accounts and bears all risk of credit and fraud losses. Our agreement with Synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by Synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. The income and cash flow we received from Synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the percentage of sales on private label and co-branded accounts relative to the Companys total sales, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, Synchronys ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. All of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking and consumer protection laws, which could also materially limit the availability of credit to consumers or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders. Due to these factors, the income and cash flows we receive from our credit card program with Synchrony could decrease significantly, and our results of operations and cash flows could be materially impacted. Additionally, we are subject to certain financial covenants as part of our agreement with Synchrony and if we fail to satisfy such covenants, we could be subject to a reserve, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows. We utilize the services of two third-party service providers to operate and maintain our Ecommerce website and to provide order management, customer service and fulfillment support. Disruptions with these providers or in the services they provide to us could adversely affect our reputation, operations and financial results. We have contracted with a third-party service provider to operate and host our Ecommerce website. We have contracted with a second third-party service provider to provide order management, customer service, payment, fraud and fulfillment services. We rely on the operational, privacy and security procedures and controls of these two providers to host and operate our Ecommerce business. Failure of either of these providers to adequately service these aspects of our Ecommerce business could result in prolonged disruption, which affects our customers ability to utilize our website or receive the product in a timely manner. As a result, we may lose customer sales and/or experience increased costs, which could affect our reputation, operations and financial results. In addition, the Ecommerce operations also involve other risks, which could influence our results of operations including but not limited to diversion of sales from our physical stores, liability for online content, credit card fraud and risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and related support systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Acts or threats of terrorism, health crisis, violence or unfavorable or uncertain political conditions could harm our business. Acts of terrorism or war, health crisis, political or civil unrest and uncertainty, pandemics, and other catastrophes may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively affect our sales by causing consumer spending to decline. Also, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, political or civil unrest or uncertainty, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) and other catastrophes, could negatively affect our business by interfering with our ability to obtain suitable merchandise from vendors. Inability to obtain suitable merchandise from our vendors or substitute suppliers at similar costs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to many legal and regulatory requirements, including, among others, employment, trade, healthcare, tax, data protection, securities and privacy laws and regulations. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable laws. Additional legal or regulatory requirements or more stringent interpretations of applicable requirements could increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, profitability and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have received a notice from Nasdaq advising us that we do not meet the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Global Select Market. If we are unable to maintain a listing on a national securities exchange, it could negatively impact the price and liquidity of our common stock, which could impair the value of your investment. Our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market prior to January 8, 2020. In order to maintain that listing, we were required to satisfy minimum financial and other listing requirements. On July 8, 2019, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department notified us that we did not meet the $1.00 minimum bid price for the last 30 consecutive business days as required by Rule 5450(a)(1) (the "Minimum Bid Price Requirement"). In accordance with Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had 180 calendar days, or until January 6, 2020, to regain compliance with the bid price requirement. We were unable to comply with the bid price requirement during the applicable grace period, and on December 20, 2019, the Company filed an application to transfer the listing of its common stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market and request the additional 180-day compliance period offered on that market. On January 7, 2020, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market approving the transfer of the listing of the Company's common stock from the Nasdaq Global Select Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market. Accordingly, the Company was granted an additional 180-day grace period, or until July 6, 2020, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. The Companys common stock was transferred to the Nasdaq Capital Market effective as of January 8, 2020, and continues to trade under the symbol SMRT. The Nasdaq Capital Market operates in substantially the same manner as the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and listed companies must meet certain financial requirements and comply with Nasdaqs corporate governance requirements. On April 16, 2020, Nasdaq announced that, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq is providing temporary relief from bid price and other requirements through June 30, 2020. As a result, we have until September 18, 2020 to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. To regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement and qualify for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the minimum bid price per share of the Companys common stock must be at least $1.00 for at least ten consecutive business days during the additional grace period. If the Company does not regain compliance during this additional grace period, its common stock would be subject to delisting by Nasdaq. As part of its transfer application, the Company notified Nasdaq that if the stock price does not recover sufficiently during the additional grace period, the Company intends to take actions to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, including by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. There can be no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement or will otherwise be in compliance with other Nasdaq listing criteria. The delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Capital Market could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and could result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, and fewer business development opportunities. Any such developments could impair the value of your investment. 15 Table of Contents We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that may, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As disclosed in Item 9A, "