Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Fifth Wall Acquisition Corp. I, Fifth Wall, our, us or we refer to Fifth Wall Acquisition Corp. I. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company newly incorporated in the Delaware for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. Our sponsor is Fifth Wall Acquisition Sponsor, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on February 4, 2020. On February 9, 2021, we consummated our Initial Public Offering of 34,500,000 shares of Class A common stock, including the issuance of 4,500,000 shares of Class A common stock as a result of the underwriters exercise in full of its over-allotment option (each, a Public Share and collectively, the Public Shares) at $10.00 per share, generating gross proceeds of approximately $345.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $19.8 million, inclusive of approximately $12.1 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 1,047,500 shares of Class A common stock (each, a Private Placement Share and collectively, the Private Placement Shares), at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Share to the Sponsor, generating proceeds of approximately $10.5 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $345.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the sale of the Public Shares in the Initial Public Offering and of the Private Placement Shares in the Private Placement were placed in a trust account (Trust Account) located in the United States with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and will be invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. 18 Table of Contents Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Shares , although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. We must complete one or more initial Business Combinations having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting discount held in trust) at the time of the signing of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or February 9, 2023 (the Combination Period) and our stockholders have not amended the Certificate of Incorporation to extend such Combination Period, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible, but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay our income taxes (less taxes payable and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law,; and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and the Companys board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case, to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Proposed Business Combination As more fully described in Note 1 to the Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements, on April 21, 2021, we (FWAA), entered into a merger agreement (as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the Merger Agreement), by and among FWAA, Einstein Merger Corp. I, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of FWAA (Merger Sub), and SmartRent.com, Inc., a Delaware corporation (SmartRent). The transactions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including the Merger (defined below), will constitute a Business Combination as contemplated by FWAAs Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into SmartRent, with SmartRent surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of FWAA (the Merger). Upon the closing of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing), FWAA will change its name to SmartRent, Inc.. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, the Company had approximately $655,000 in its operating bank account and working capital deficit of approximately $467,000. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through a contribution of $25,000 from Sponsor to cover for certain expenses and offering costs in exchange for the issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined in Note 4), the loan of approximately $118,000 from the Sponsor pursuant to the Note (as defined in Note 4), and the proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the Note on February 12, 2021. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide the Company Working Capital Loans (as defined in Note 4). As of June 30, 2021, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loan. 19 Table of Contents Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the industry and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of our operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the condensed financial statements. The condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to June 30, 2021 was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering, and, subsequent to the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and activities in connection with the proposed merger with SmartRent. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination, at the earliest. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on the proceeds derived from the Initial Public Offering. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $3 million, which consisted of approximately $4,000 in income from investments held in the Trust Account, less $2.9 million general and administrative expenses, which includes approximately $2.2 million in legal fees, and approximately, and $50,000 franchise tax expenses. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of approximately $3.3 million, which consisted of approximately $16,000 in income from investments held in the Trust Account, less $3.1 million general and administrative expenses, which includes approximately $2.2 million in legal fees, and approximately, and $98,000 franchise tax expenses. Contractual Obligations Registration Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Shares and shares that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement signed upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. These holders were entitled to certain demand and piggyback registration rights. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 4,500,000 additional shares to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters fully exercised the over-allotment option on February 9, 2021. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per Public Share, or $6.9 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. An additional fee of $0.35 per Public Share, or approximately $12.1 million in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Class A common stock subject to possible redemption Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock are classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2021, 32,738,037 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption at the redemption amount were presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. Net income (loss) per common stock Net income (loss) per common stock is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the periods. At June 30, 2021, we did not have any dilutive securities and other contracts that could potentially be exercised or converted into common stock and then share in the earnings of our Company. As a result, diluted loss per common stock is the same as basic loss per common share for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed statements of operations include a presentation of loss per share for common stock subject to redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income per share. Net income per share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock for the period is calculated by dividing the investment income from the Trust Account (net of applicable franchise taxes), by the weighted average number of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods. Net loss per stock, basic and diluted for Class A and Class B nonredeemable common stock for the period is calculated by dividing the net loss, less net income attributable to Class A common stock , resulting in a net loss, by the weighted average number of Class A and Class B nonredeemable common stock outstanding for the periods. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. We adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 21 Table of Contents JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.