Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Fi nancial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2021 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 25, 2022. This discussion also contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the section entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, our, us, the Company and SmartRent generally refer to SmartRent Technologies, Inc., Legacy SmartRent, and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Business Combination. Overview SmartRent is an enterprise technology company that provides a comprehensive real estate platform designed for property owners, managers and residents. Our suite of products and services, which includes both smart building hardware and cloud-based SaaS solutions, provides seamless visibility and control over real estate assets. Our comprehensive platform lowers operating costs, increases revenues, mitigates operational friction and protects assets for owners and operators, while providing a differentiated, elevated living experience for residents. Through our central connected device, called SmartHub, we integrate our proprietary enterprise software with third-party smart devices and other technology interfaces through an open-architecture, brand-agnostic approach, which allows owners, operators, and residents to manage their smart home systems through a single connected interface. Our products and solutions include smart apartments and homes, access control for buildings, common areas, and rental units, asset protection and monitoring, parking management, self-guided tours, and community and resident Wi-Fi. We also have a professional services team operating across the United States through which we provide customers with installation, training, and support services. Our recent SightPlan acquisition advances our product roadmap and augments the cloud-based SaaS solutions for current and prospective customers. We believe SmartRent is the category leader in the enterprise smart home solutions industry. As of March 31, 2022, our customers owned an aggregate of approximately 5.1 million units, representing approximately 12% of the U.S. market for institutionally owned multifamily rental units and single-family rental homes, and included 15 of the top 20 multifamily residential owners in the United States. In addition to multifamily residential owners, our customers include some of the leading homebuilders, single-family rental homeowners, and iBuyers in the United States. We estimate that the U.S. market for residential real estate consists of approximately 44 million institutionally owned multifamily rental units and single-family rental homes as of March 31, 2022. While several of the top multifamily residential owners are current SmartRent customers, we believe that we have only begun to take advantage of the full market opportunity in residential and commercial real estate sectors and in domestic and international markets. For example, we recently adapted our software and applications to target new opportunities in other residential real estate sectors, including student housing, senior housing, and new construction homes. In addition, we believe there is significant potential for growth beyond residential real estate to other commercial real estate asset classes, including, among others, office, hotel, retail, industrial, and self-storage. Furthermore, we believe there is an attractive opportunity to expand our smart home solutions into other markets globally and have started pilot programs and/or developed partner relationships in the United Kingdom, Canada, the Netherlands, and Ireland. We have designed our open-architecture, brand-agnostic smart home operating system to help the residential real estate industry become more efficient and effective. Importantly, our enterprise software integrates into most existing property management systems used by residential property owners and operators. With features specically designed to increase productivity, while decreasing operating costs, we estimate that owners and operators can realize a 50% return on investment after installation of our smart home operating system. The Business Combination On August 24, 2021, we consummated the Business Combination contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Upon the closing of the Business Combination, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy SmartRent, with Legacy SmartRent continuing as the surviving company and changing its name to SmartRent Technologies, Inc. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, we changed our name from Fifth Wall Acquisition Corp. I to SmartRent, Inc. and changed our trading symbol and exchange listing from FWAA on Nasdaq to SMRT on the NYSE. 32 Immediately prior to the effective time of the Business Combination, each share of Legacy SmartRents preferred stock converted into one share of Legacy SmartRent's common stock. As a result of and upon the closing of the Business Combination, (i) each share of common stock of Legacy SmartRent was canceled and converted into the right to receive the applicable portion of the merger consideration comprised of shares of FWAAs Class A Common Stock, par value $0.0001 ("Class A Common Stock") as determined pursuant to the Exchange Ratio (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (ii) each share of FWAAs Class B common stock, was canceled and converted into Class A Common Stock, and (iii) each restricted stock unit, outstanding option and warrant to purchase Legacy SmartRent's common stock (whether vested or unvested) was assumed by FWAA and converted into comparable restricted stock units, options or warrants that are exercisable for shares of Class A Common Stock, with a value determined in accordance with the Exchange Ratio. The Business Combination is accounted for as a reverse capitalization in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Under the guidance in FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations, FWAA is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. SmartRent Technologies, Inc. is deemed the accounting predecessor of the combined business and the successor SEC registrant, meaning that our financial statements for previous periods will be disclosed in the registrants future periodic reports filed with the SEC. The Business Combination had a significant impact on our reported financial condition and results of operations as a consequence of the reverse capitalization. The most significant change in our reported financial condition and results of operations was a net increase in cash (as compared to our Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2021) of approximately $444.6 million, which includes approximately $155.0 million in proceeds from the PIPE Investment (described below), offset by additional transaction costs for the Business Combination. Transaction costs incurred in connection with the Business Combination are approximately $56.0 million, including $12.1 million which represents deferred underwriter fees from the FWAA IPO. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, holders of 246 shares of FWAA Class A Common Stock elected to have their shares redeemed. On April 21, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, FWAA entered into subscription agreements with certain investors to which such investors collectively subscribed for an aggregate of 15,500,000 shares of Class A common stock at $10.00 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $155,000,000 (the PIPE Investment). The PIPE Investments were consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the Business Combination. Our Model Our smart home products and solutions provide an enterprise-grade holistic approach to what it means to be a connected community. A SmartRent connected community is a curb to couch concept where an entire property utilizes a variety of proprietary and third-party smart devices from various manufacturers and features that can be remotely managed to provide efficiency, automation, asset protection and ancillary revenue opportunities. A SmartRent connected community can combine in-rental unit smart home technology with our Alloy Access control system and our Alloy Parking system, which are connected by our Community WiFi solution and can be managed remotely using our core smart home operating system, Community Manager. Impact of COVID-19 The extensive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted and will likely continue to result in significant disruptions to the global economy, as well as businesses and capital markets around the world. In an effort to halt the spread of COVID-19, a number of countries, states, and other jurisdictions have imposed, and may impose in the future, various measures, including voluntary and mandatory quarantines, stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions, limitations on gatherings, reduced operations and extended business closures. While the broader and long-term implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on our workforce, operations and supply chain, customer demand, results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain, we believe that we will continue to experience COVID-related disruptions to our business through 2022. For example, we have experienced production delays on our sourcing, manufacturing, and logistics channels, including SmartHub production delays as a result of a global shortage of Z-wave chips. Additionally, although we continue to see strong demand for our products, w e have experienced purchasing delays from current and prospective customers where COVID-19 and related supply chain delays on their projects have pushed a portion of the transactions we expected to be completed in early 2022 to later in the year. Comparability of Financial Information Our future results of operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results as a result of the Business Combination. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success will be dependent on many factors, including those further discussed below. Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges and other factors, including our ability to grow our customer base in a cost-effective manner, expand our hardware and hosted service offerings to generate 33 increased revenue per Unit Deployed (as defined below), provide high quality hardware products and hosted service applications to maximize revenue and improve the leverage of our business model. While these areas represent opportunities for us, they also represent challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to operate our business. Investing in Research and Development Our performance is significantly dependent on the investments we make in research and development, including our ability to attract and retain highly skilled research and development personnel. We must continually develop and introduce innovative new software services and hardware products, integrate with third-party products and services, mobile applications and other new offerings. If we fail to innovate and enhance our brand and our products, our market position and revenue will likely be adversely affected. Active Supply Chain Management We are focused on successfully navigating global supply chain disruptions. Specifically, increased demand for electronics as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. trade relations with China and certain other factors have led to a global shortage of semiconductors, including Zwave chips, which are a central component of our SmartHubs. Due to this shortage, we have experienced SmartHub production delays, which have occasionally affected our ability to meet scheduled installations and facilitate customer upgrades to our higher-margin Alloy Fusion SmartHub. We believe these supply chain disruptions may continue, with varying degrees of operational impact, through 2022. New Products, Features and Functionality We will need to expend additional resources to continue introducing new products, features and functionality to enhance the value of our smart home operating system. We have recently introduced a number of product enhancements and features, including the Building Access Control, Video Intercom, WiFi and Parking Management solutions. In the future, we intend to continue to release new products and solutions and enhance our existing products and solutions, and we expect that our operating results will be impacted by these releases. The acquisition of SightPlan enhances our overall platform offering and customer value proposition by providing a comprehensive one-stop platform that broadens our support of property operations, enhancing the experience for residents, property owners and managers. Both SmartRent and SightPlan offer an open-API architecture that enables a myriad of third-party partner integrations, resulting in a multi-functional platform that enhances property management workflow efficiencies, empowers teams to get more done, elevates resident interactions, and improves resident living experiences. Category Adoption and Market Growth Our future growth depends in part on the continued consumer adoption of hardware and software products which improve resident experience and the growth of this market. We need to deliver solutions that enhance the resident experience and deliver value to our customers, rental property owners and operators, as well as homebuilders and developers, by providing products and solutions designed to enhance visibility and control over assets while providing additional revenue opportunities. In addition, our long-term growth depends in part on our ability to expand into international markets in the future. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of SmartRent included elsewhere in this report are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Key Operating Metrics We regularly monitor a number of operating and financial metrics, which include certain non-GAAP financial measures in order to evaluate our operating performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, measure our progress and make strategic decisions. Non-GAAP financial measures may not provide accurate predictions of future GAAP financial results. The limitations our Key Operating Metrics have as an analytical tool are: (1) they might not accurately predict our future GAAP financial results, (2) we might not realize all or any part of the anticipated value reflected in Units Booked and (3) other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate our Key Operating Metrics or similarly titled measures differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Units Deployed and New Units Deployed We define Units Deployed as the aggregate number of SmartHubs that have been installed (including customer self-installations) as of a stated measurement date. We define New Units Deployed as the aggregate number of SmartHubs that were installed (including customer self-installations) during a stated measurement period. We use these operating metrics to assess the general health and trajectory of our business and growth. We had 51,196, and 32,486 New Units Deployed during the quarters 34 ended March 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. As of March 31, 2022, and March 31, 2021, we had an aggregate of 390,681 and 187,591 Units Deployed, respectively. Committed Units We define Committed Units as the aggregate number of SmartHub (i) units that are subject to binding orders from customers together with (ii) units that existing customers who are parties to a SmartRent master services agreement have informed us (on a non-binding basis) that they intend to order in the future for deployment within two years of the measurement date. We track the number of Committed Units to assess the general health and trajectory of our business and to assist in our longer-term resource analysis. As of March 31, 2022 and 2021, we had 760,591 and 604,478 Committed Units, respectively. Units Booked We define Units Booked as the aggregate number of SmartHub units associated with binding orders executed during a stated measurement period. We utilize the concept of Units Booked to measure estimated near-term resource demand and the resulting approximate range of post-delivery revenue that we will earn and record. Units Booked represent binding orders only and accordingly are a subset of Committed Units. We had 91,482 and 45,536 Units Booked during the three months ended March 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA We define EBITDA as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP before the following items: interest expense, income tax expense and depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA before the following items: stock-based compensation expense, non-employee warrant expense, and non-recurring expenses in connection with acquisitions. Management uses EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to identify controllable expenses and make decisions designed to help us meet our current financial goals and optimize our financial performance, while neutralizing the impact of expenses included in our operating results which could otherwise mask underlying trends in our business. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and reconciliation of these measures. Annual Recurring Revenue We define Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) as the annualized value of our recurring SaaS services revenue earned. We monitor our ARR to assess the general health and trajectory of our hosted services business. Our ARR was approximately $16.3 million and $5.3 million during the quarters ended March 31, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from sales of systems that consist of hardware devices, professional installation services and hosted services enabling property owners and property managers to have visibility and control over assets, while providing all-in-one home control offerings for residents . We record revenue as earned when control of these products and services is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to collect for those products and services. Hardware Revenue We generate revenue from the direct sale to our customers of hardware smart home devices, which devices currently consist of door-locks, thermostats, sensors, and light switches. These smart home devices connect to either the Alloy Fusion or the Alloy SmartHub. The performance obligation for hardware revenue is considered satisfied, and revenue is recognized, when the hardware device is shipped to the customer, except for the Alloy SmartHub, which is discussed in Hosted Services Revenue below. The Alloy Fusion device operates together with the proprietary software, discussed in Hosted Services Revenue below, but also provides features that function independently without subscription to our proprietary software, and the performance obligation for hardware revenue is considered satisfied and revenue is recognized at a point in time when the Alloy Fusion hub is shipped to the customer. We generally provide a one-year warranty period on hardware devices that are delivered and installed. We record the cost of the warranty as a component of cost of hardware revenue. Professional Services Revenue We generate professional services revenue from installing smart home hardware devices, which does not result in significant customization of the installed products and is generally performed over a period ranging from two to four weeks. Installations can be performed by our employees, can be contracted out to a third party with our employees managing the engagement, or can be performed by the customer. Professional services contracts are generally performed on a fixed-price basis and revenue is recognized over the period in which installations are completed. 35 Hosted Services Revenue Hosted services consist of recurring monthly subscription revenue earned from the fees collected from customers to provide access to one or more of our software applications including access controls, asset monitoring and related services. These subscription arrangements have contractual terms typically ranging from one month to seven years and include recurring fixed plan subscription fees. Our arrangements do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of our software at any time. Customers are granted continuous access to the services over the contractual period. Accordingly, fees collected for subscription services are recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date the subscription service is made available to the customer. Variable consideration is immaterial. We sell the hardware Alloy SmartHub device, which only functions with the subscription to our proprietary software applications and related hosting services. We consider the Alloy SmartHub device and hosting services subscription as a single performance obligation, and therefore we defer the recognition of revenue for the Alloy SmartHub devices that are sold with application subscriptions. The estimated average in-service life of the Alloy SmartHub devices is four years. When an Alloy SmartHub device is included in a contract that does not require a long-term service commitment, the customer obtains a material right to renew the service because purchasing a new device is not required upon renewal. If a contract contains a material right, proceeds are allocated to the material right and recognized over the period of benefit, which is generally four years. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of direct costs of products and services together with the indirect cost of estimated warranty expense and customer care and support over the life of the service arrangement. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. We record any change to cost of job performance and job conditions in the period during which the revision is identified. Hardware Cost of hardware revenue consists primarily of direct costs of proprietary products, Alloy Fusion, hardware devices and supplies purchased from third-party providers, shipping costs, warehouse facility (including depreciation and amortization of capitalized assets and right-of-use assets) and infrastructure costs, personnel-related costs associated with the procurement and distribution of our products and estimated warranty expenses together with the indirect cost of customer care and support. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. In 2019, the U.S. administration imposed significant changes to U.S. trade policy with respect to China. Tariffs have subjected certain SmartRent products manufactured overseas to additional import duties. The amount of the import tariff has changed numerous times based on action by the U.S. administration. We continue to monitor the change in tariffs. If tariffs are increased, such actions may increase our cost of hardware revenue and reduce our hardware revenue margins further in the future. Professional Services Cost of professional services revenue consists primarily of direct costs related to personnel-related expenses for installation and supervision of installation services, general contractor expenses and travel expenses associated with installation of our products, and indirect costs that are also primarily personnel-related expenses in connection with training of and ongoing support for customers and residents. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. Hosted Services Cost of hosted services revenue consists primarily of the amortization of the direct costs of our Alloy SmartHub device consistent with the revenue recognition period noted above in Hosted Services Revenue and infrastructure costs associated with providing our software applications together with the indirect cost of customer care and support over the life of the service arrangement. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars in future periods at a rate that is lower than the corresponding increase in hosted services revenue. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs directly associated with our research and development. Our research and development efforts are focused on enhancing and developing additional functionality for our existing products and on new product development. We account for the cost of research and development by capitalizing qualifying costs, which are incurred during the product development stage, and amortizing those costs over the products estimated useful life, which generally ranges from three to five years depending on the type of application. Costs incurred and capitalized during the product development stage generally include the costs of software configuration, coding, installation and testing. Such costs primarily include payroll and payroll related expenses for employees directly involved in the product development. We expense preliminary evaluation costs as they are incurred before the product development stage, as well as post development implementation and operation costs, such as training, maintenance and minor upgrades. We begin amortizing 36 capitalized costs when a project is ready for its intended use, and we periodically reassess the estimated useful life of a project considering the effects of obsolescence, technology, competition and other economic factors which may result in a shorter remaining life. We expect our research and development costs to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our investment in product development to broaden the capabilities of our solutions and introduce new products and features. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist of costs directly associated with our sales and marketing activities, which primarily include personnel-related costs, sales commissions, marketing programs, trade shows, and promotional materials. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase over time as we hire additional sales and marketing personnel, increase our marketing activities, grow our domestic and international operations, and continue to build brand awareness. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs associated with our general and administrative organization, professional fees for legal, accounting and other consulting services, office facility, insurance and information technology costs. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and stock exchange listing requirements, additional insurance expense, investor relations activities and other administrative and professional services. We also expect to increase the size of our general and administrative staff in order to support the growth of our business. Other Expenses Other expenses consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other income related to the operations of Zipato, a wholly owned subsidiary of Zenith Highpoint, Inc., which entities we acquired in a business combination in February 2020. Interest expense is recorded in connection with our various debt facilities. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses relate to the impact of transactions denominated in a foreign currency other than the U.S. dollar. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies has increased, which we expect to continue. Provision for Income Taxes The income tax benefit on the Consolidated Statement of Operations is primarily related to the valuation allowance release due to deferred tax liabilities from the SightPlan acquisition. We have established a full valuation allowance for net deferred U.S. federal and state tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods if we report taxable income. We believe that we have established an adequate allowance for our uncertain tax positions, although we can provide no assurance that the final outcome of these matters will not be materially different. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. 37 Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The results of operations presented below should be reviewed together with the consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Report. The following table summarizes our historical consolidated results of operations data for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of operating results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. All dollars are in thousands unless otherwise stated. Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue Hardware $ 22,114 $ 12,398 $ 9,716 78 % Professional services 6,909 3,601 3,308 92 % Hosted services 8,336 3,161 5,175 164 % Total revenue 37,359 19,160 18,199 95 % Cost of revenue Hardware 21,858 12,143 9,715 80 % Professional services 15,167 5,460 9,707 178 % Hosted services 5,078 1,971 3,107 158 % Total cost of revenue 42,103 19,574 22,529 115 % Operating expense Research and development 6,446 3,093 3,353 108 % Sales and marketing 5,162 1,754 3,408 194 % General and administrative 11,951 3,957 7,994 202 % Total operating expenses 23,559 8,804 14,755 168 % Loss from operations (28,303 ) (9,218 ) (19,085 ) 207 % Other Expense Interest expense (12 ) (82 ) 70 (85 )% Other income, net 114 79 35 44 % Loss before income taxes (28,201 ) (9,221 ) (18,980 ) 206 % Provision for income taxes (4,807 ) 46 (4,853 ) (10550 )% Net Loss $ (23,394 ) $ (9,267 ) $ (14,127 ) 152 % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue Hardware $ 22,114 $ 12,398 $ 9,716 78 % Professional services 6,909 3,601 3,308 92 % Hosted services 8,336 3,161 5,175 164 % Total revenue $ 37,359 $ 19,160 $ 18,199 95 % Total revenue increased by $18.2 million, or 95%, to $37.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $19.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in revenue resulted primarily from an increase in New Units Deployed during 2022 compared to 2021 and from the increased number of cumulative active subscriptions for our hosted services during 2022 compared to 2021. Our revenue is primarily driven by New Units Deployed and the aggregate number of Units Deployed. We had 51,196 New Units Deployed during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to 32,486 New Units Deployed during the same period in 2021, an increase of 18,710 New Units Deployed, or 58%. The aggregate number of Units Deployed was 390,681 at March 31, 2022, compared to 187,591 at March 31, 2021. Hardware revenue increased by $9.7 million, or 78%, to $22.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily attributable to an increase in hardware sales volumes of $9.8 million resulting from the increase in units shipped. Average revenue per unit (ARPU) increased 5% to $415.33 for the 2022 period from $397.16 for the 2021 period. 38 Professional services revenue increased by $3.3 million, or 92%, to $6.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increases were primarily attributable to an increase in New Units Deployed. Hosted services revenue increased by $5.2 million, or 164%, to $8.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Of the $8.3 million revenue in 2022, $4.3 million is related to hub amortization and $4.1 million is related to SaaS revenue. Revenue increased from hub amortization and SaaS by $2.4 and $2.7 million, respectively, from the three months ended March 31, 2021 to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase from both components of hosted services revenue resulted primarily from the increased aggregate number of Units Deployed from 187,591 units at March 31, 2021 to 390,681 units at March 31, 2022. Approximately $0.5 million and $0.2 million of the increase in SaaS resulted from contributions from iQuue and SightPlan, respectively. We expect SaaS revenue to further increase as a result of the SightPlan acquisition beginning the three month period ending June 30, 2022. We measure and evaluate Committed Units to assess the general health and trajectory of our business operations and growth. As of March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, SmartRent had 760,591 and 604,478 Committed Units, respectively. We utilize the concept of Units Booked to measure estimated near-term resource demand and the resulting approximate range of post-delivery revenue that we will earn and record. Units Booked represent binding orders only and accordingly are a subset of Committed Units. We had 91,482 and 45,536 Units Booked during the quarters ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue Hardware $ 21,858 $ 12,143 $ 9,715 80 % Professional services 15,167 5,460 9,707 178 % Hosted services 5,078 1,971 3,107 158 % Total cost of revenue $ 42,103 $ 19,574 $ 22,529 115 % Total cost of revenue increased by $22.5 million, or 115%, to $42.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $19.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in cost of revenue resulted primarily from an increase in the volume of sales and New Units Deployed of our smart home hardware devices, increased personnel-related costs, and the increased number of active subscriptions for our software service applications. Hardware cost of revenue increased by $9.7 million, or 80%, to $21.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $12.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase in hardware cost of revenue was primarily attributable to approximately $6.9 million resulting from greater sales volumes and an increase of approximately $1.2 million for indirect personnel-related costs for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Professional services cost of revenue increased by $9.7 million, or 178%, to $15.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $5.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in professional services cost of revenue is primarily attributable to approximately $5.7 million resulting from increased sales volumes of our smart home devices leading to an increase in New Units Deployed and related services provided, including third-party direct labor costs. Direct personnel-related costs, and related travel costs, increased by $3.6 million as we increased our professional services staff to increase our capacity to deploy units in anticipation of increased sales volumes. Hosted services cost of revenue increased by $3.1 million, or 158%, to $5.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, resulting from the increase in the aggregate number of Units Deployed and the resulting increase in the number of active subscriptions for our software service applications. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 6,446 $ 3,093 $ 3,353 108 % Sales and marketing 5,162 1,754 3,408 194 % General and administrative 11,951 3,957 7,994 202 % 39 Research and development expenses increased by $3.4 million, or 108%, to $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, resulting primarily from approximately $2.0 million of personnel-related expenses, as we increased our research and development staff, and an increase in stock-based compensation of $0.8 million. We believe that our personnel-related expenses will continue to increase in future periods as we continue to develop new applications and enhance existing products and solutions including the expenses in connection with SightPlan's operations. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $3.4 million, or 194%, to $5.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, resulting primarily from approximately $1.8 million of increased personnel-related expenses as we increased our sales and marketing staff, and an increase in stock-based compensation of $0.5 million. We believe that our personnel-related expenses will continue to increase in future periods as we continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts to increase sales with existing customers and initiate business with new customers, and we expect that our conference and trade show expenses and other sales and marketing expense will increase in future periods. The number of our customers increased by 129, or 80%, to 290 at March 31, 2022, from 161 at March 31, 2021. We had 91,482 and 45,536 Units Booked during the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, general and administrative expenses increased by $8.0 million, or 202%, to $12.0 million from $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, resulting primarily from approximately $2.5 million in personnel-related expenses, stock-based compensation of $1.7 million, business insurance of $1.7 million, primarily related to Directors and Officers insurance, and third-party consultants of $1.4 million, of which $523 was related to the SightPlan acquisition. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods as we incur expenses to support the anticipated growth of our business, and the significant accounting, legal, and compliance infrastructure required to operate as a public company. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our total operating expenses increased by $0.8 million, or 4%, to $23.6 million from $22.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2021. The increase is primarily attributable to $0.6 million of non-recurring, third-party expenses directly attributable to our recent acquisitions of iQuue and SightPlan. We believe our total operating expenses will increase on a recurring basis beginning the three-month period ending June 30, 2022 by approximately $3.0 million as a result of the SightPlan acquisition. Additionally, we believe our total operating expenses will increase in future periods for the reasons set forth above, at a pace less than the pace of our revenue growth. Other Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (12 ) $ (82 ) $ 70 (85 )% Other income, net 114 79 35 44 % Interest expense decreased by $70 or 85%, to $12 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $82 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in net interest expense is primarily attributable to interest on the Term Loan which was recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2021. No interest expense was recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2022 in connection with the Term Loan as the Term loan was extinguished in November 2021. Other income, net increased to $112, or 44% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, from $79 of other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to foreign currency adjustments. Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, Change Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Loss before income taxes $ (28,201 ) $ (9,221 ) $ (18,980 ) 206 % Provision for income taxes (4,807 ) 46 (4,853 ) (10550 )% We provided a full valuation allowance on our net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets at March 31, 2022, and March 31, 2021. As of March 31, 2022, we had $158.7 million of U.S. federal and $170.3 million of state gross net operating loss carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income, which will be carried forward indefinitely for U.S. federal tax purposes and will expire on varying dates for state tax purposes. The income tax benefit is related to the valuation allowance release due to deferred tax liabilities from the SightPlan acquisition. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, described below, as non-GAAP measures. We believe the presentation of both GAAP and 40 non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with increased transparency into financial measures used by our management team, and it also improves investors understanding of our underlying operating performance and their ability to analyze our ongoing operating trends. All historic non-GAAP financial measures have been reconciled with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures - these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to supersede or replace our GAAP results. We define EBITDA as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP before interest expense, income tax expense and depreciation and amortization. We define Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA reduced by stock-based compensation expense, non-employee warrant expense, and non-recurring expenses in connection with acquisitions. Our management uses EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA to assess our financial and operating performance, and we believe these measures are helpful to management and external users in understanding our performance. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA help management identify controllable cash expenses and make decisions designed to help us meet our identified financial and operational goals and to optimize our financial performance, while neutralizing the impact of some expenses included in our operating results caused by external influences over which management has little or no control and by non-recurring, or unusual, events that might otherwise mask trends in our performance. Accordingly, we believe these metrics measure our financial performance based on operational factors that management can impact in the short-term, namely our cost structure and expenses. We believe that the presentation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA provides information useful to investors in assessing our results of operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA is net income or loss. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not used as measures of our liquidity and should not be considered alternatives to net income or loss or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with GAAP. Our EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to the EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA of other companies due to the fact that not all companies use the same definitions of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our basis for computing these non-GAAP measures is comparable with that of other companies. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss (as determined in accordance with GAAP) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated. Three months ended March 31, (amounts in thousands) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (23,394 ) $ (9,267 ) Interest expense, net 12 82 Provision for income taxes (4,807 ) 46 Depreciation and amortization 409 80 EBITDA (27,780 ) (9,059 ) Stock-based compensation 3,523 427 Non-employee warrant expense 217 232 Compensation expense in connection with acquisitions 279 - Other non-recurring acquisition expenses 620 - Adjusted EBITDA $ (23,141 ) $ (8,400 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Debt Issuances As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $278.0 million, which were held for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our cash equivalents are comprised primarily of money market funds. To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds we received through the private issuance of our convertible SmartRent preferred stock, the net proceeds received as a result of the Business Combination, payments collected from sales to our customers, and proceeds from a Revolving Facility (defined below), convertible notes and Term Loan Facility (defined below). The term of our Revolving Facility matured in August 2021, and we extended the maturity of the Revolving Facility through December 2021, at which time, we revised the Revolving Facility and entered into a $75.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a five-year term. 41 In December 2021, we revised our Revolving Facility and entered into a $75.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a five-year term (the "Senior Revolving Facility" ) . Interest rates for advances from the Senior Revolving Facility are determined by whether the Company elects a secured overnight financing rate loan (SOFR Loan) or alternate base rate loan (ABR Loan). For SOFR Loans, the interest rate is based upon the forward-looking term rate based on SOFR as published by the CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited (CBA) plus an applicable margin, subject to a floor of 0.00%. For ABR Loans, the interest rate is based upon the highest of the Prime Rate, Federal Funds Effective Rate plus an applicable margin, or 3.25%. As of December 31, 2021, the applicable margins for SOFR Loans and ABR Loans under the Senior Revolving Facility were 0.10% and 0.50%, respectively. The Senior Revolving Facility is secured by substantially all of the Companys assets and guaranteed by each of the Companys material domestic subsidiaries. In February 2020, Legacy SmartRent issued a subordinated convertible note in the principal amount of $0.1 million, bearing interest at 5% per annum, pursuant to a note purchase agreement (the February 2020 Convertible Note). Interest on the February 2020 Convertible Note accrued at the coupon rate, compounded annually. The February 2020 Convertible Note was converted in March 2020 into shares of Legacy SmartRent Series C-1 Preferred Stock, which automatically converted into a number of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock upon consummation of the Business Combination. In August 2019, we entered into a loan and security agreement for a credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility provided $15.0 million of borrowing capacity and consisted of a $10.0 million revolving line of credit (the Revolving Facility), which matured in December 2021 and a $5.0 million term loan (the Term Loan Facility), which was to mature in November 2023. In December 2021, the balance of the Term Loan Facility was repaid and we revised the Credit Facility and entered into the Senior Revolving Facility. Legacy SmartRent Preferred Stock Issuances During the year ended December 31, 2020, Legacy SmartRent issued a total of approximately 5.5 million shares of Series C Preferred Stock in three tranches that closed in March, April, and May 2020, respectively. The Series C Preferred Stock was issued in exchange for $57.5 million gross cash proceeds. Expenses in connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock were $0.1 million, resulting in net cash proceeds of $57.4 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, Legacy SmartRent also issued 761 shares of Series C-1 Preferred Stock (which automatically converted into a number of shares of Common Stock upon consummation of the Business Combination) in connection with the redemption of certain convertible notes. In February and March 2021, Legacy SmartRent issued approximately 3.4 million additional shares of Series C Preferred Stock (which automatically converted into a number of shares of Common Stock upon consummation of the Business Combination) in exchange for $35.0 million gross cash proceeds. Expenses in connection with the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock were $0.2 million, resulting in net cash proceeds of $34.8 million. We have incurred negative cash flows from operating activities and significant losses from operations in the past as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $178.0 million as of March 31, 2022. We may require additional capital to continue our operations in future periods. We expect to incur expenses related to non-cancellable contractual obligations such as from our operating leases. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, available borrowing capacity under the Senior Revolving Facility, and cash raised in the Business Combination will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months beyond the issuance date of this Report. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including our sales volume, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and market adoption of our new and enhanced products and features. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may seek to raise additional funds through equity and debt. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired and on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Cash Flow Summary - Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) Operating activities $ (28,787 ) $ (7,896 ) Investing activities (117,768 ) (93 ) Financing activities 480 34,381 Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our operating activities used $28.8 million in cash resulting primarily from our net loss of $23.4 million and $5.4 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and 42 liabilities primarily resulted from a $17.0 million increase in deferred revenue, a $5.4 million increase in accounts payable and a $3.8 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets. These changes were partially offset by a $15.8 million increase in accounts receivable, a $9.2 million increase in inventory, and a $5.7 million increase in deferred cost of revenue. Changes in non-cash expenses consisted primarily of a deferred tax benefit of $4.8 million resulting from a change in valuation allowance due to the SightPlan acquisition, partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation of $3.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our operating activities used $7.9 million in cash resulting primarily from our net loss of $9.3 million, which was partially offset by $0.9 million of non-cash expenses consisting primarily of $0.2 million of non-cash compensation expense related to the Zenith acquisition, provision for warranty expenses of $0.2 million, and stock-based compensation of $0.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, $0.5 million was provided from changes in our operating assets and liabilities resulting primarily from an increase of $10.7 million in deferred revenue. This was partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in accounts receivable, a $2.8 million increase in deferred cost of revenue, a $2.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $2.1 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, we used $117.8 million of cash for investing activities, resulting primarily due to $117.5 million used for the SightPlan acquisition, net of cash acquired. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we used $0.1 million of cash for investing activities, primarily related to the purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our financing activities provided $0.5 million of cash consisting primarily of payments received for ESPP purchases. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our financing activities provided $34.4 million of cash consisting primarily of convertible preferred stock issued of $34.8 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that can significantly impact the amounts we report as assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and the related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance as these policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue primarily from sales of systems that consist of hardware devices, professional installation services and hosted services to assist property owners and property managers with visibility and control over assets, while providing all-in-one home control offerings for residents. Revenue is recognized when control of these products and services are transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for those products and services. Payments we receive by credit card, check, or automated clearing house payments, and payment terms are determined by individual contracts and range from due upon receipt to net 30 days. Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in reported revenue. Payments received from customers in advance of revenue recognition are reported as deferred revenue. We apply the practical expedient that allows for inclusion of the future auto-renewals in the initial measurement of the transaction price. We only apply these steps when it is probable that we will collect the consideration to which we are entitled in exchange for the goods or services it transfers to a customer. Accounting for contracts recognized over time involves the use of various estimates of total contract revenue and costs. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that estimates of costs to complete a performance obligation may be revised in the future as we observe the economic performance of our contracts. Changes in job performance, job conditions and estimated profitability may result in revision to our estimates of revenue and costs and are recognized in the period in which the revision is identified. 43 We may enter into contracts that contain multiple distinct performance obligations including hardware and hosted services. The hardware performance obligation includes the delivery of hardware, and the hosted services performance obligation allows the customer use of our proprietary software during the contracted-use term. The subscription for the software and the hub device combines as one performance obligation, and there is no support or ongoing subscription for other device hardware. We partner with several manufacturers to offer a range of compatible hardware options for its customers. We maintain control of the hardware purchased from manufacturers prior to it being transferred to the customer, and accordingly, SmartRent is considered the principal in these arrangements. For each performance obligation identified, we estimate the standalone selling price, which represents the price at which we would sell the good or service separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price, considering available information such as market conditions, historical pricing data, and internal pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. We then allocate the transaction price among those obligations based on the estimation of the standalone selling price. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Cost is computed under the first-in, first-out method. We adjust the inventory balance based on anticipated obsolescence, usage, and historical write-offs. Significant judgment is used in establishing our forecasts of future demand and obsolete material exposures. We consider marketability and product life cycle stage, product development plans, demand forecasts, historical revenue, and assumptions about future demand and market conditions in establishing our estimates. If the actual product demand is significantly lower than forecast, which may be caused by factors within and outside of our control, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and our customer requirements, we may be required to increase our inventory adjustment. A change in our estimates could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our results of operations. Stock-Based Compensation Our stock-based compensation relates to stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs") granted to our employees and directors. Stock-based awards are measured based on the grant date fair value. We estimate the fair value of stock option awards on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of RSUs is based on the grant date fair value of the stock price. The fair value of these awards is recognized as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period in which the awards are expected to vest. Forfeitures are recognized as they occur by reversing previously recognized compensation expense. The Black-Scholes model considers several variables and assumptions in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards. These variables include the per share fair value of the underlying common stock, exercise price, expected term, risk-free interest rate, expected annual dividend yield, the expected stock price volatility over the expected term and forfeitures, which are recognized as they occur. For all stock options granted, we calculated the expected term using the simplified method for plain vanilla stock option awards. The grant date fair value is also utilized with respect to RSUs with performance and service conditions to vest. For RSUs with a performance condition, based on a liquidity event, as well as a service condition to vest, no compensation expense is recognized until the performance condition has been satisfied. Subsequent to the liquidity event, compensation expense is recognized to the extent the requisite service period has been completed and compensation expense thereafter is recognized on an accelerated attribution method. Under the accelerated attribution method, compensation expense is recognized over the remaining requisite service period for each service condition tranche as though each tranche is, in substance, a separate award. In August 2021, the Company completed the merger with FWAA, which met the liquidity event vesting condition and triggered the recognition of compensation expense for RSUs for which the time-based vesting condition had been satisfied or partially satisfied. SmartRent Common Stock Valuations Prior to the Business Combination, in the absence of a public trading market, the fair value of our common stock was determined by our board of directors, with input from management, taking into account our most recent valuation from an independent third-party valuation specialist. Our board of directors intend that all stock options granted have an exercise price per share not less than the per share fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. The valuations of our common stock were determined in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation. The assumptions we used in the valuation models were based on future expectations combined with management judgment, and considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock as of the date of each option grant, including the following factors: relevant precedent transactions involving our capital stock; the liquidation preferences, rights, preferences, and privileges of our redeemable convertible preferred stock relative to the common stock; 44 our actual operating and financial performance; current business conditions and projections; our stage of development; the likelihood and timing of achieving a liquidity event for the shares of common stock underlying the stock options, such as an initial public offering, given prevailing market conditions; any adjustment necessary to recognize a lack of marketability of the common stock underlying the granted options; recent secondary stock sales and tender offers; the market performance of comparable publicly-traded companies; and; the U.S. and global capital market conditions. In valuing our common stock at various dates, our board of directors determined the equity value of our business using the market approach. The market approach estimates value considering an analysis of guideline public companies. The guideline public company method estimates value by applying a representative revenue multiple from a peer group of companies in similar lines of business to our forecasted revenue. To determine our peer group of companies, we considered publicly traded companies based on consideration of business descriptions, operations and geographic presence, financial size and performance, and management recommendations regarding most similar companies. This approach involves the identification of relevant transactions and determining relevant multiples to apply to our revenue. Application of this approach involves the use of estimates, judgment, and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding our expected future revenue, expenses, and future cash flows, discount rates, market multiples, the selection of comparable companies, and the probability of possible future events. Changes in any or all of these estimates and assumptions or the relationships between those assumptions impact our valuations as of each valuation date and may have a material impact on the valuation of our common stock. The estimates were no longer necessary to determine the fair value of new awards once the underlying shares began trading in August 2021. Emerging Growth Company Status Section 102(b)(1) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) exempts emerging growth companies as defined in Section 2(A) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can choose not to take advantage of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, and any such election to not take advantage of the extended transition period is irrevocable. We are an emerging growth company and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of this extended transition period. We will use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public business entities and non-public business entities until the earlier of the date we (a) are no longer an emerging growth company or (b) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. The extended transition period exemptions afforded by our emerging growth company status may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of this exemption because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (b) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (c) the last date of our fiscal year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC with at least $700.0 million of outstanding securities held by non-affiliates or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non- convertible debt securities during the previous three years. We expect that we will cease to be an emerging growth company as of December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting 45