Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Operating Metrics - Committed Units . We expect this pipeline of demand from existing customers to drive multi-year revenue visibility. We further believe that our customer base is inherently sticky given the barriers to entry associated with rolling out an integrated enterprise solution across a portfolio of rental units. SmartRent Products and Solutions Our smart home products and solutions provide an enterprise-grade holistic approach to what it means to be a connected community. A SmartRent connected community is a curb to couch concept where an entire property utilizes a variety of proprietary and third-party smart devices from various manufacturers and features that can be remotely managed to provide efficiency, automation, asset protection, and ancillary revenue opportunities. A SmartRent connected community can combine in-rental unit smart home technology with our Alloy Access control system and our Alloy Parking system, which are connected by our Community WiFi solution and can be managed remotely using our core smart home operating system, Community Manager. We enter into binding, recurring revenue contracts with customers that typically have terms of five years, and most of our customers prepay their software-as-a-service (" SaaS") contract subscription fees. In 2021, approximately 65% of our customers prepaid their multi-year software contracts. Units Deployed as of December 31, 2021 was 339,485. See the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Operating Metrics - Units Deployed and New Units Deployed. As of December 31, 2021, we have 742,429 Committed Units. See the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Operating Metrics - Committed 5 Units . We expect this pipeline of demand from existing customers to drive multi-year revenue visibility. We further believe that our customer base is inherently sticky given the barriers to entry associated with rolling out an integrated enterprise solution across a portfolio of rental units. SmartRent Solutions SmartRent software is hardware agnostic and integrated with many property management systems, including various systems and software that promote automation efficiency. Our partnerships with other software providers and hardware manufacturers allow us to provide customized solutions for many different communities and customers, including property management software, customer relationship management, and other software integrations. For example, our existing partnerships with the four major property management systems, Yardi, RealPage, ResMan, and Entrata, are expected to increase efficiency and usability for owners and operators by providing one platform to manage their communities and smart home automation devices. In addition, our partnerships with customer relationship management providers, including ECI Lasso, Knock, and Funnel, provide owners and operators the opportunity to streamline how they follow up and manage prospective resident data received from our Self-Guided Tours solution. Our fully integrated, hardware-agnostic solutions include the following: Community Manager . Community Manager is our proprietary, web-based software that owners and operators use to administer and configure community settings. Our Community Manager software integrates with many popular property management, customer relationship management, and other third-party software products, which enables owners and operators to manage all resident, prospect, access, and other actionable data from one platform. For example, when a resident moves out, management can easily transfer the apartment or home from occupied to vacant, triggering a succession of automated actions. In addition, through our software, communities can create their ideal Vacant Mode automations to remove access codes from locks, create work orders for turn requests, and activate energy saving modes. We have also developed Community Manager Mobile, a native mobile application that allows owners and operators to remotely manage work orders and control access, including resident move-ins and outs. Access Control. Our Alloy Access solution is a community-wide, cloud-based access control system that protects building entry, common areas, and amenity spaces for multifamily residential properties through the use of control panels, smart access locks, and intercoms with integrations to property management software and customer relationship platforms. Our Alloy Access solution offers real-time integration with property management and active directory systems, remote access at various entry points (e.g., amenity doors, gates, pools and elevators) without the need for fobs or separate keys, socially distant access control features for use in self-guided tours, monitoring systems for visitor logs, and real-time door lock activity alerts. In addition, our Alloy Access solution allows residents to create temporary access codes for deliveries, services, or guest access. Our Alloy Access system can be implemented in new construction or by retrofitting existing access control systems without the need to replace any hardware. Asset Protection. Our SmartRent asset protection solutions help to ensure the longevity of communities by reducing the risk of damage with high-precision leak sensors and smart thermostats. Our Community Manager software and integrated flood, temperature, and humidity sensors can be configured to notify owners and operators at the first sign of an issue, automatically generate a work order into the property management system, and dispatch a technician to solve the issue, allowing management to act quickly and avoid damages and costly repairs. Our flood sensors can be placed under or near any appliance that may be susceptible to water damage, such as sump pumps, toilets, washing machines, dish washers, water heaters, and sinks. In addition to this leak protection, our SmartRent asset protection solutions also provide owners and operators with the ability to detect abnormal humidity levels and extreme temperature changes through the use of smart thermostats, which help protect floors from warping and prevent mold from forming. Parking Management. Alloy Parking is a parking management system designed to alleviate the resident and guest parking issues faced by multifamily residential properties. Our Alloy Parking solution provides an integrated software system and single-source database that allows owners and operators to assign and re-assign parking spaces, review interactive maps for live parking space availability (based on parking sensors for real-time occupancy), implement a proactive enforcement process, monitor parking management with resident parking decals and license plate validation, and install custom parking signs to monetize guest parking. In addition, through an Alloy Parking management portal, residents have the ability to add or remove vehicles, edit vehicle details, review assigned parking decals, and provide guests with parking access. Our Alloy Parking solution is available to communities as a stand-alone product or as of part of our fully integrated smart home operating system. Self-Guided Tours. Our Self-Guided Tours solution offers a web-based platform accessible through a mobile application or web browser for prospective renters and buyers to search available rental units, homes or model inventory, and safely tour communities and homes through a completely contactless self-guided tour with no interaction with management. Our Self-Guided Tour solution includes a variety of features to ensure each contactless self-guided tour is safe, productive, and convenient, including an identity check for each prospective renter and buyer, the ability for prospective renters and buyers to schedule a tour when most convenient, and the automatic production of actionable data ( e.g. , the amount of time spent in the rental unit or home) for use by owners and operators. This technology enables owners and operators to expand showing hours, relocate tours in real-time depending on vacancies, permit showings promptly upon request, and conduct multiple tours at the 6 same time without hiring additional staff. Our Self-Guided Tours solution is available to communities as a stand-alone product or as part of our fully integrated smart home operating system. Community WiFi. Through our all-in-one Community WiFi solution, we provide owners, operators, and residents with a strong WiFi connection to power their SmartHubs and other devices, eliminating the time and expense associated with engaging a third-party WiFi provider and assisting communities that experience poor cellular coverage. While our SmartHubs have built-in cellular connectivity, in markets where cell coverage is not available or poor, communities can add our Community WiFi solution to help maintain a consistent connection. With our Community WiFi system, owners, operators, and residents will have access to a dedicated and secure network, as well as a private connection that provides a stronger and more reliable signal for SmartHubs and other devices. We are able to install our Community WiFi system in any property type, including new construction or by retrofitting existing structures, and perform site surveys to customize the equipment best suited to each property. SmartRent Hardware We offer a variety of in-rental unit devices that elevate the resident experience and provide multiple benefits to owners and operators. A typical SmartRent rental unit or single-family rental home is equipped with a SmartHub, smart locks, thermostat, and leak sensors. In addition, several other devices can be integrated into our smart home operating system, including smart plugs and lighting (including light bulbs, switches, and dimmers), shades, garage door controllers, video doorbells, peephole cameras, video intercoms, contact and motion sensors, and voice assistants. With our smart home operating system, residents can remotely control and manage their smart home devices and home settings through a single application. In addition, because our software is hardware agnostic, customers can choose from a wide variety of device manufacturers and use their favorite devices together in one fully integrated smart home operating system. The SmartHubs are a vital aspect of our smart home operating system that elevates the living experience for residents. As part of our ongoing effort to control and improve the quality of our products and solutions, in February 2020, we acquired Zenith Highpoint Inc. ( " Zenith " ), the supplier of our Alloy SmartHubs. We currently offer two different SmartHub models, the Alloy Smart Home Hub and our next generation SmartHub, the Alloy Fusion (Alloy Fusion). These SmartHubs use reliable and secure Z-Wave communication for remote control of connected devices and allow users to remotely manage multiple device settings from one application. The Alloy Fusion, combines a thermostat and touchscreen panel that allows users to control all of their devices from one location. Using the Alloy Fusion on-wall touchscreen device, users can, among other things, review settings, change the temperature, and lock or unlock doors. In addition, users can download the companion mobile application to remotely control their devices, such as manage their home temperature and grant access for guests and deliveries. We also partner with several manufacturers to offer a range of compatible hardware options for any property, including: Video Doorbells. We partner with Ring to offer a selection of compatible video-enabled doorbells. Our integration with Ring allows users to add devices to their SmartRent application for a more robust control system, including live view and notifications. Indoor and Outdoor Cameras. We also partner with Ring to offer a selection of indoor and outdoor cameras that can be added to any property. With battery-operated and plug-in options available, customers have flexibility to select the cameras that are appropriate for each property. Smart Locks and Lock Boxes. Our selection of Z-Wave or Bluetooth-enabled smart locks and lock boxes offer customers options for keyless entry and simplified guest access. With various keyless entry options, including deadbolts, interconnected locks, lever locks, and patio locks, these products can be customized to meet each propertys needs. Smart Thermostats, Sensors, Plugs, Switches, Dimmers, and Readers . We offer (i) thermostats for all types of HVAC systems with programmable options, including forced air, radiant and heat pump, (ii) leak, parking, contact and motion sensors used to proactively monitor and protect properties, (iii) smart plugs to add automation to lights, fans, or other small appliances, (iv) smart switches and dimmers to upgrade lighting in apartments and homes, and (v) a selection of readers, panels, and boards, including as part of our Alloy Access solution. Our People Our employees are critical to our success. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 639 total employees worldwide, all of which are full-time employees. We also engage consultants and contractors to supplement our permanent workforce. A majority of our employees are engaged in engineering, software and product development, sales, and related functions. As of December 31, 2021, we have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relationship with our employees to be in good standing. None of our domestic or international employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a labor union. 7 Our leadership team has over five decades of collective experience managing, leasing, and servicing multifamily residential properties, as well as developing and building industry-specific software. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer and founder, Lucas Haldeman, has spent the last two decades developing property management technology for the real estate industry, including serving as chief technology and marketing officer of Colony Starwood Homes (formerly NYSE:SFR and now part of Invitation Homes Inc. (NYSE:INVH)) from October 2013 to July 2016, where he led the development of a platform to assist in acquisitions, renovations, leasing, and management of more than 30,000 single-family rental homes. Our deep industry knowledge has led us to create a smart home operating system that empowers users, while increasing safety, revenue, and efficiency for owners and operators. In addition, we believe we are the only smart home solution that provides a full-service experience that includes our in-house installation, staff training, and day-to-day support services provided by full-time SmartRent employees. We seek to foster a welcoming, inclusive work environment where employees can be themselves and do meaningful work that positively impacts our customers and communities. Our culture is supportive, engaging, and fast paced and facilitates partnerships among coworkers with diverse backgrounds and experiences. Our employees have opportunities to get involved in resource groups ( e.g. , Womens Empowerment and PRISM) and give back to the community. We engage and survey our employees to gather insight, feedback, and data about their engagement, workplace experiences, and manager effectiveness. Survey results inform and support our action plans, with the goal of enhancing workplace satisfaction and overall employee well-being and effectiveness. We attract and retain talent through our employer brand initiatives, employee referral programs, and partnerships with outside agencies that focus on presenting diverse candidates and through internal career growth. Employee growth and development comes from receiving real-time, informal feedback, a formal performance review, career path transparency, and ongoing role specific training. The structure of our compensation programs endeavors to give employees peace of mind when it comes to health and financial benefits so that they can focus on doing their best work. Our total rewards program enables us to retain talent, reward high performing employees at all levels and incentivize and motivate exceptional performance. In addition to competitive base pay, we have an annual bonus program for employees at all levels and a comprehensive variable compensation program specific to our revenue organization. Both the bonus and variable compensation plans are tied directly to individual and company performance. We also provide 100% employer paid medical, dental, and vision for employees and their dependents, life insurance, flexible time off, paid parental leave, and a 401(k) plan with a company match. Intellectual Property We regard our intellectual property rights as critical to our success generally, with our trademarks, service marks, and domain names being especially critical to the continued development and awareness of our brands and marketing efforts. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain name registrations, and trade secrets, as well as through contractual restrictions and reliance on federal, state, and common law. We enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with employees, consultants, contractors, and business partners, which include invention assignment provisions for our employees and contractors. We have several registered trademarks in the United States, as well as other trademarks globally. We have also registered a variety of domestic and international domain names, the most significant of which relate to our SmartRent brand. Government Regulation We and our partners are subject to various federal, state, and local regulations related to access control products, such as state and local building and fire codes, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and requirements for certifications by Underwriters Laboratories, a global independent safety science company, and the Federal Communications Commission. We, our customers, and our partners may be subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including data breach notification laws, data privacy and security laws, and consumer protection laws and regulations (including Section 5 of the FTC Act that govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal information). Privacy and security laws, self-regulatory schemes, regulations, standards, and other obligations are constantly evolving, and may conflict with each other, which complicates compliance efforts, and can result in investigations, proceedings, or actions that lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and restrictions on data processing. For example, California has enacted the CCPA that became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates, among other things, new data privacy obligations for covered companies and provides new privacy rights to California residents, including the right to access and delete personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how personal information is used. The CCPA also creates a private right of action with statutory damages for certain data breaches, thereby potentially increasing risks associated with a data breach. Further, the CPRA, which was recently voted into law by California residents, imposes additional data protection obligations on covered companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. The CPRA also creates a new California data protection agency specifically tasked to enforce the law, which would likely result in increased regulatory scrutiny of California businesses in the areas of data protection and security. The substantive requirements for businesses subject to the CPRA will go into effect on January 1, 2023 and become enforceable on July 1, 2023. Further, according to the FTC, violating consumers privacy rights or failing to take appropriate steps to keep 8 consumers personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act. The FTC expects a companys data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. Other regulations that may apply to us, for example, depending upon the circumstances, include the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union, Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), and the Tenant Data Privacy Act (TPDA) in New York. Competition Competitive Market Given the emerging nature of smart home technology in residential real estate, the industry is highly fragmented and there are a number of companies developing solutions that may be similar to parts of our smart home operating system. We believe our primary competitors are other software companies, which have historically provided singular, point solutions to new development properties and used third-party installation services, and hardware companies, many of which have closed architectures. We believe these companies fail to provide a comprehensive solution that meets the enterprise management and security requirements of owners, operators, and residents. We believe that our open-architecture, hardware-agnostic, holistic solutions, comprised of our enterprise software solutions, innovative devices, and resident application, along with our in-house implementation, installation and support teams, strong engineering and operations team, commercial traction, and focus on privacy and security, provide us with a competitive advantage over our competitors. We expect competition to intensify in the future as the market for smart home technology in the residential real estate industry continues to mature. To assemble a complete building solution, owners and operators often need to source smart home technology from multiple vendors and point solution providers and patch their products together to create a modern building experience. Under this fragmented structure, the process to evaluate, procure, install, and service smart home technology can be expensive and time-consuming for owners and operators. With our open architecture, holistic smart home operating system and in-house installation, training, and support services, we believe we offer a smart home solution that provides a full-service, end-to-end experience. Superior Platform for Owners, Operators, and Residents We believe we have developed the most scalable and owner/operator-friendly smart home operating system in the industry based on our platforms unique combination of attributes: We offer a holistic integrated solution that includes enterprise software, hardware, and resident applications. We are hardware agnostic and our solutions are compatible with many other smart devices including, among others, Google Home, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Honeywell thermostats, and Yale smart locks. We have an open architecture that can integrate with many property management systems, including, among others, Yardi, Entrata, RealPage, and Engrain. We provide in-house professional services with employees in our implementation, installation, support, and warehouse departments, which allows us to maintain consistent quality and service across markets. Leading Enterprise Smart Home Provider with Track Record of Success As of December 31, 2021, our customers included 15 of the top 20 multifamily residential owners in the United States. Moreover, many of our existing customers have demonstrated their satisfaction with our smart home operating system by installing our SmartRent solutions across their full operating portfolios over time. As of December 31, 2021, we have 339,485 Units Deployed, 742,429 Committed Units, and 249 customers who own or operate an aggregate of 4.5 million units. We are not dependent on any one or few major customers. Seasonality Our business and related operating results have been, and we believe that they will continue to be, impacted by seasonal factors throughout the year. We typically experience greater demand for deployments in the Spring and Summer, and weaker demand in late Fall and Winter. Research and Development Our near-term product roadmap includes new leasing solutions (including an online application for the leasing process and other applications for lease signing and customer relationship management), resident experience solutions (including applications for marketplaces, amenity reservations, rent payments, and work orders), home IoT solutions (including hubless systems, smart appliances, and video and security systems), and building IoT solutions (including energy, water, and air metering). We also engage in ongoing activities in connection with enhancement of existing products, integration with new third-party products and services, and the development of internal applications to improve efficiency of our operations. 9 Supply Chain Generally, our hardware device suppliers maintain a stock of devices and key components to cover any minor supply chain disruptions. Where possible we utilize multiple sourcing methods to mitigate the risk of disruption from a single supplier. However, we also rely on a number of single source and limited source suppliers for components of our solution. Replacing any single source or limited source suppliers could require the expenditure of significant resources and time to source these products. In order to mitigate the potential impact of supply chain disruptions, we have engaged in carrying increased quantities of inventory in our warehouse and invested in building a more robust team of supply chain personnel to manage the procurement, warehousing and distribution of inventory. Available Information Our website address is www.smartrent.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (investors.smartrent.com), SEC filings, webcasts, press releases, and conference calls. We use these mediums to communicate with investors and the general public about our company, our products and services and other issues. It is possible that the information we make available may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our investor relations website. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through the websites listed above is not incorporated by reference nor otherwise included in this report, and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks, some of which are described below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all the other information in this Report, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our Class A Common Stock speculative or risky: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are an early-stage company with a history of losses, have not been profitable historically and may not achieve profitability in the future. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from period to period. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, future resurgences or the development of additional variants, could adversely affect our business. Any delay, disruption or quality control problems experienced by our third-party suppliers, manufacturers, and partners, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, could cause us to lose market share and our results of operations may suffer. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers for our products, and a loss of any one of them could negatively affect our business. If we are unable to develop new products and solutions, or successfully sell our products and solutions, our revenue may not grow as expected. If we are unable to successfully manage any of our recent or future acquisitions and integrations of businesses, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are subject to legal obligations and laws and regulations related to security and privacy, and any actual or perceived failure to meet those obligations could harm our business. Any breach of security controls, or unauthorized or inadvertent access to customer or residential information or other data or to control or view systems is otherwise obtained, our products and solutions may be perceived as insecure, our business may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. Design and manufacturing defects in our products and services could subject us to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty, and other claims, which could adversely affect our business and result in harm to our reputation. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain senior management and qualified board members. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our Class A Common Stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. We do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock for the foreseeable future. If securities analysts issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our Class A Common Stock, the price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. 11 Our issuance of additional shares of Class A Common Stock or convertible securities could make it difficult for another company to acquire us, may dilute investors' ownership of us and could adversely affect our stock price. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. Our management has limited experience in operating a public company. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are an early-stage company with a history of losses. We have not been profitable historically and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We experienced net losses in each year since inception, including a net loss of $37.1 million for 2020 and $71.9 million for 2021. We believe we will continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow in the near-term as we continue to invest significantly in our business. We expect to continue to devote significant resources into our future growth, including making meaningful investments in our customer acquisition teams, building out our technological capabilities, expanding internationally, and exploring strategic acquisition opportunities. In addition, as a public company, we will incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. We expect to continue to incur losses and will have to generate and sustain increased revenues to achieve future profitability. Achieving profitability will require us to increase revenues, manage our cost structure, and avoid significant liabilities. Revenue growth may slow, revenues may decline, or we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of possible reasons, including general macroeconomic conditions, increasing competition (including competitive pricing pressures), a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we compete, our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and quality problems, and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed and our stock price could decline. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results and financial condition fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which will not be within our control. Both our business and the smart building technology industry are evolving rapidly, and our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. If our operating results do not meet the guidance that we provide to the market or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price will likely decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may arise due to a number of factors, including: the proportion of our revenue attributable to SaaS, versus hardware and other revenues; fluctuations in demand for our platform and solutions; changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions; the ability of our hardware vendors to continue to manufacture high-quality products and to supply sufficient products to meet our demands; the timing and success of introductions of new solutions, products or upgrades by us or our competitors; changes in our business and pricing policies or those of our competitors; the ability to accurately forecast revenue; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses, the costs of the hardware we purchase, the cost of the labor required to provide our professional services and the costs required to provide hosted services; competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors; our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions and integrations of businesses; issues related to introductions of new or improved products, such as shortages of prior generation products or short-term decreased demand for next generation products; 12 the amount and timing of expenditures, including those related to expanding our operations, increasing research and development, introducing new solutions or paying litigation expenses; the ability to effectively manage growth within existing and new markets domestically and internationally; changes in the payment terms for our platform and solutions; the strength of regional, national and global economies; and the impact of other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, pandemics, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this prospectus, you should not rely on quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of our future performance. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and future resurgences or the development of variants thereof, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant volatility in financial markets and has caused what is likely to be an extended global recession. Public health problems resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and precautionary measures instituted by governments and businesses to mitigate its spread, including travel restrictions and quarantines, could continue to contribute to a general slowdown in the global economy, adversely impact our customers, third-party suppliers and other business partners, and disrupt our operations. Changes in our and our customers operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic or related employee illnesses has resulted in and may continue to result in inefficiencies or delays, including in sales, delivery, and product development efforts, and additional costs related to business continuity initiatives, that cannot be fully mitigated through succession and business continuity planning, employees working remotely or teleconferencing technologies. The COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental reactions have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and stock price due to the occurrence of some or all of the following events or circumstances, among others: restricted access to customers properties and communities, leading to suspensions and interruptions in product installation; our inability to manage our business effectively due to key employees becoming ill, working from home inefficiently, and being unable to travel to our facilities; our customers, third-party suppliers and other business partners inability to operate worksites, including construction sites, manufacturing facilities and shipping and fulfillment centers, due to employee illness or reluctance to appear at work, or stay-at-home regulations; interruptions in manufacturing (including the sourcing of key components) and shipment of our products; disruptions of the operations of our third-party suppliers, which could impact our ability to purchase components at efficient prices and in sufficient amounts; reduced demand for our products and services, including due to any prolonged economic downturn that may occur; our inability to raise additional capital or the dilution of our common stock if we raise capital by issuing equity securities; and volatility in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including the duration of the spread of the outbreak, effectiveness of vaccines and vaccine rollouts, the impact on capital and financial markets, and the related impact on the financial circumstances of our customers and their residents, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. This situation is changing rapidly, and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. We have limited control over our suppliers, manufacturers, and partners, which may subject us to significant risks, including the potential inability to produce or obtain quality products and services on a timely basis or in sufficient quantity. If these third-party suppliers, manufacturers, and partners experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, we could lose market share and our results of operations may suffer. 13 We have limited control over our suppliers, manufacturers, and partners. In addition, these suppliers, manufacturers, and partners may experience delay, disruption, or lapse in the quality of their operations, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated governmental restrictions, or the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The foregoing subjects us to risks, such as the following: inability to satisfy demand for our products; reduced control over delivery timing and product reliability; reduced ability to monitor the manufacturing process and components used in our products; limited ability to develop comprehensive manufacturing specifications that take into account any materials shortages or substitutions; variance in the manufacturing capability of our third-party manufacturers; price increases; failure of a significant supplier, manufacturer, or partner to perform its obligations to us for technical, market, or other reasons; insolvency, bankruptcy or liquidation of a significant supplier, manufacturer, or partner; difficulties in establishing additional supplier, manufacturer, or partner relationships if we experience difficulties with our existing suppliers, manufacturers, or partners; shortages of materials or components; disagreements with suppliers, manufacturers, or logistics partners as to quality control, leading to a surplus of ineffective products; misappropriation of our intellectual property; exposure to natural catastrophes, political unrest, terrorism, labor disputes, and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries in which our products are manufactured or the components thereof are sourced; changes in local economic conditions in the jurisdictions where our suppliers, manufacturers, and partners are located; the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports, as well as trade restrictions and restrictions on currency exchange or the transfer of funds; and insufficient warranties and indemnities on components supplied to our manufacturers or performance by our partners. The occurrence of any of these risks, especially during periods of peak demand, could cause us to experience a significant disruption in our ability to produce and deliver our products to our customers. For example, there is currently a global semiconductor supply shortage. The semiconductor supply chain is complex, with capacity constraints occurring throughout. We must compete with other industries to satisfy current and near-term requirements for semiconductors, and those allocations are not within our control even though we attempt various mitigating actions. An ongoing shortage of semiconductors or other key components can disrupt our production schedule and have an adverse effect on our business, profitability and results of operations. Changes in trade policies, additional tariffs, or labor shortages could make delivery of supplies more expensive and time consuming, leading to increased expenses and delays in shipments. These potential delays and cost increases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operations results. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers and partners for our products. A loss of any of our suppliers, manufacturers, and partners could negatively affect our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to manufacture and transport our products, including in some cases only a single supplier for some of our products and components. Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturers for our products increases our risks, since we do not currently have alternative or replacement manufacturers beyond these key parties. In the event of 14 interruption from any of our manufacturers, we may not be able to increase capacity from other sources or develop alternate or secondary sources without incurring material additional costs and substantial delays. Furthermore, many of these manufacturers primary facilities are located in Europe or Asia. Thus, our business could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers is impacted by a natural disaster or other interruption at a particular location. In particular, we rely on an exclusive manufacturer of Z-wave chips, which facilitate the Z-wave communication protocol used for communication between our SmartHub and all other smart devices. The replacement of the Z-wave communication protocol would require the replacement or modification of all of our devices, resulting in production and deployment delays, thus negatively impacting our business. We also rely exclusively on a single source to supply the main central processing unit used in our SmartHub. A change in the central processing unit would necessitate an extensive printed circuit board redesign, also resulting in production and deployment delays. If we experience a significant increase in demand for our products, or if we need to replace an existing supplier or partner, we may be unable to supplement or replace them on terms that are acceptable to us, which may undermine our ability to deliver our products to customers in a timely manner. For example, it may take a significant amount of time to identify a manufacturer that has the capability and resources to build our products to our specifications in sufficient volume. Identifying suitable suppliers, manufacturers, and partners is an extensive process that requires us to become satisfied with their quality control, technical capabilities, responsiveness and service, financial stability, regulatory compliance, and labor and other ethical practices. Accordingly, a loss of any of our significant suppliers, manufactures, or logistics partners could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to develop new products and solutions, adapt to technological change, sell our products and solutions into new markets, or further penetrate our existing markets, our revenue may not grow as expected. Our ability to increase sales will depend, in large part, on our ability to enhance and improve our products and solutions, introduce new products, solutions, software, features, or services and in a timely manner, sell into new markets and further penetrate our existing markets. The success of any enhancement or new product or solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of enhanced or new products and solutions, the ability to maintain and develop relationships with partners and vendors, the ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales and marketing personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing programs, and the ability of our products and solutions to maintain compatibility with a wide range of connected devices. Any new product or solution we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets into which we attempt to sell our products and solutions, including new vertical markets (e.g., commercial office) and new countries or regions, may not be receptive. Our ability to further penetrate our existing markets depends on the quality, availability and reliability of our products and solutions and our ability to design our products and solutions to meet customer demand. Similarly, if any of our potential competitors implement new technologies before we are able to implement ours, those competitors may be able to provide more effective products or solutions, possibly at lower prices. Any delay or failure in the introduction of new or enhanced products or solutions could harm our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If the smart home technology industry does not grow as we expect, or if we cannot expand our products and solutions to meet the demands of this market, our revenue may decline, fail to grow or fail to grow at an accelerated rate, and we may incur operating losses. The market for smart home solutions is in an early stage of development, and it is uncertain how rapidly or how consistently this market will develop and the degree to which our products and solutions will be accepted into the single-family and multifamily rental markets in which we operate. Some residents, owners, or operators may be reluctant or unwilling to use our solutions for a number of reasons, including satisfaction with traditional solutions, concerns about additional costs, concerns about data privacy, and lack of awareness of the benefits of our solutions. Our ability to expand the sales of our products and solutions into new markets depends on several factors, including the reputation and recognition of our products and solutions, the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our products and solutions, the ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales and marketing personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing programs, the costs of our products and solutions and the success of our competitors. If we are unsuccessful in developing and marketing our products and solutions into new markets, or if customers do not perceive or value the benefits of our products and solutions, the market for our products and solutions might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our revenue and growth prospects. Our limited operating history, recent growth and the quickly changing markets in which we operate make evaluating our current business and future prospects difficult, which may increase the risk of investing in our Class A Common Stock. We have experienced rapid growth since our formation in 2016. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing markets. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not manage or address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. 15 Our growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management, and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope, and complexity, we will need to increase our sales and marketing efforts and add additional sales and marketing personnel and senior management in various regions worldwide and improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to attract, service, and retain an increasing number of customers. For example, we plan to explore opportunities for international expansion and extend our offerings to current customers by introducing new software, services, and products. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Any such capital investments will increase our cost base. Product liability, warranty, personal injury, property damage and recall claims may materially affect our financial condition and damage our reputation. Our business exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims in the event our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, personal injury or death. Although we maintain product and general liability insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all such potential claims. Because our products are installed in homes, there is an elevated risk of property damage, personal injury, or death in the event of a product malfunction, such as a smart lock failing or our SmartHub overheating or catching fire. Any judgment or settlement for property damage, personal injury, or wrongful death could prove expensive to contest. We may experience legal claims in excess of our insurance coverage or claims that are not covered by insurance, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determination of material product liability and warranty claims made against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and harm our reputation. In addition, if any of our products or components in our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product or component if the defect or alleged defect relates to safety. Any such recall and other claims could be costly to us and require substantial management attention. We may be unable to attract new customers and maintain customer satisfaction, which could have an adverse effect on our business and growth. We have experienced significant customer growth over the past several years. Our continued business and revenue growth are dependent on our ability to continuously attract and retain customers, and we cannot be sure that we will be successful in these efforts, or that customer retention levels will not materially decline. There are a number of factors that could lead to a decline in customer levels or that could prevent us from increasing our customer levels, including: our failure to introduce new features, software, products, or solutions that customers find engaging or our introduction of new products or solutions, or changes to existing products and solutions that are not favorably received; harm to our brand and reputation; pricing and perceived value of our offerings; our inability to deliver quality products and solutions in a timely manner; our customers engaging with competitive software, services, products, and solutions; technical or other problems preventing customers or their residents from using our products and solutions in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affecting the customer experience; deterioration of the apartment or real estate industry, including declining levels of multifamily and single-family rental buildings and reduced spending in the apartment industry; unsatisfactory experiences with the delivery, installation, or products or solutions; and deteriorating general economic conditions or a change in consumer spending preferences or buying trends. Additionally, further expansion into international markets will create new challenges in attracting and retaining customers that we may not successfully address. As a result of these factors, we cannot be sure that our customer levels will be adequate to maintain or permit the expansion of our operations. A decline in customer levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 16 Potential customer turnover in the future, or costs we incur to retain and upsell our customers, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our customers have no obligation to renew their contracts for our software services after the expiration of the initial term, which on average is five years. In the event that these customers do renew their contracts, they may choose to renew for fewer units, shorter contract lengths, or for less expensive subscriptions. We cannot predict the renewal rates for customers that have entered into software contracts with us. Customer attrition, as well as reductions in the number of units for which a customer subscribes, each could have a significant impact on our results of operations, as does the cost we incur in our efforts to retain our customers and encourage them to upgrade their services and increase the number of their units that use our software, services, and products. Our attrition rate could increase in the future if customers are not satisfied with our products and solutions, the value proposition of our solutions or our ability to otherwise meet their needs and expectations. Customer attrition and reductions in the number of units may also increase due to factors beyond our control, including the failure or unwillingness of customers to pay for our products and solutions due to financial constraints and the impact of a slowing economy. If a significant number of customers terminate, reduce, or fail to renew their contracts we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to increase the number of new customers or to upsell existing customers, and such additional marketing expenditures could harm our business and results of operations. We have not experienced churn in our core smart home deployment since our inception. However, we have received cancellations on our stand-alone self-guided tour product, meaning that this is the only SmartRent product at this location, so including these contract cancellations our churn rate is 0.01% as of December 31, 2021. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional functionalities to our current customers and to sell into our customers future projects. This may require increasingly sophisticated and more costly sales efforts, technologies, tools and a longer sales cycle. Any increase in the costs necessary to upgrade, expand and retain existing customers could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. If our efforts to convince customers to add units and, in the future, to purchase additional functionalities are not successful, our business may suffer. In addition, such increased costs could cause us to increase our rates, which could increase our attrition rate. The markets in which we participate could become more competitive as many companies, including large technology companies and managed service providers, may target the markets in which we do business. If we are unable to compete effectively with these potential competitors and sustain pricing levels for our products and solutions, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. The smart home technology industry in which we participate may become more competitive and competition may intensify in the future. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: our product and solution functionality, performance, ease of use, reliability, availability, and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors products and solutions; our success in utilizing new and proprietary technologies to offer solutions and features previously not available in the marketplace; our success in identifying new markets, applications and technologies; our ability to attract and retain partners; our name recognition and reputation; our ability to recruit software engineers and sales and marketing personnel; and our ability to protect our intellectual property. Customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. In the event a customer decides to evaluate a smart home solution, the customer may be more inclined to select one of our competitors if such competitors product offerings are broader or at a better price point than those that we offer. 17 We face, and may in the future face, competition from large technology providers and managed service providers that may have greater capital and resources than we do. Competitors that are larger in scale and have greater resources may benefit from greater economies of scale and other lower costs that permit them to offer more favorable terms to consumers (including lower service costs) than we offer, causing such consumers to choose to enter into contracts with such competitors. For instance, cable and telecommunications companies are expanding into the smart home and security industries and are bundling their existing offerings with automation and monitored security services. In some instances, it appears that certain components of such bundled offerings are significantly underpriced and, in effect, subsidized by the rates charged for the other product or services offered by these companies. These bundled pricing alternatives may influence customers desire to use our services at rates and fees we consider appropriate. These competitors may also benefit from greater name recognition and superior advertising, marketing, promotional and other resources. To the extent that such competitors utilize any competitive advantages in markets where our business is more highly concentrated, the negative impact on our business may increase over time. In addition to potentially reducing the number of new customers we are able to acquire, increased competition could also result in increased customer acquisition costs and higher attrition rates that would negatively impact us over time. The benefit offered to larger competitors from economies of scale and other lower costs may be magnified by an economic downturn in which customers put a greater emphasis on lower cost products or services. In addition, we face competition from regional competitors that concentrate their capital and other resources in targeting local markets. Cable and telecommunications companies actively targeting the smart home market and large technology companies expanding into the smart home market could result in pricing pressure, a shift in customer preferences towards the services of these companies and a reduction in our market share. Continued pricing pressure from these competitors or failure to achieve pricing based on the competitive advantages previously identified above could prevent us from maintaining competitive price points for our products and services, resulting in lost subscribers or in our inability to attract new subscribers and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are unable to sustain pricing levels for our products and solutions whether due to competitive pressure or otherwise, our gross margins could be significantly reduced. Further, our decisions around the development of new products or solutions are grounded in assumptions about eventual pricing levels. If there is price compression in the market after these decisions are made, it could have a negative effect on our business. If we fail to continue to develop our brand or our reputation is harmed, our business may suffer. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current brand will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and solutions and will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to increase our investment in, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among our customers. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brand. In addition, if we do not handle customer or resident complaints effectively, our brand and reputation may suffer, we may lose our customers confidence, and they may choose to terminate, reduce or not to renew their contracts. Many of our customers and their residents also participate in social media and online blogs about smart home technology solutions, including our products, and our success depends in part on our ability to minimize negative and generate positive feedback through such online channels where existing and potential customers seek and share information. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of one or more key members of our management team or personnel, or our failure to attract, integrate and retain additional personnel in the future, could harm our business and negatively affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of the key members of our management team and other personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, each of whom is at will and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and brand, and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train, and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational, managerial and other requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Our failure to attract, hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to achieve our business objectives. We make estimates relating to customer demand and errors in our estimates may have negative effects on our inventory levels, revenues, and results of operations. We have historically entered into agreements to place firm orders for products from our suppliers to ensure that we are able to meet our customers demands. Our sales process requires us to estimate the expected customer demand and place firm product orders accordingly. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we may have excess inventory which could increase our net losses. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand, we may lose revenue opportunities and market share and may damage our customer relationships. 18 Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitations. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $132.5 million of gross federal net operating loss carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income. Realization of any tax benefit from our carryforwards is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income and the absence of certain ownership changes. An ownership change, as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, could place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the amount of our future taxable income that may be offset by our carryforwards. Such limitations could effectively eliminate our ability to utilize a substantial portion of our carryforwards. We have not conducted a study to determine whether an ownership change has occurred since December 31, 2021 or if (i) the Business Combination resulted in an ownership change, (ii) we have incurred one or more ownership changes, or (iii) the issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock resulted in an ownership change. Other issuances of shares of our Class A Common Stock which could cause an ownership change include the issuance of shares of common stock upon future conversion or exercise of outstanding options and warrants or future common stock offerings. If we have experienced or do experience an ownership change at any time since our formation, use of our net operating loss carryforwards and any other tax attribute carryforwards we may have (e.g., carryforwards of general business credits) would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 or 383 of the Code. Such a limitation would be determined by first multiplying the value of our outstanding shares at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term, tax-exempt rate. The applicable long-term tax-exempt rate for ownership changes occurring during the month of August 2021 was 1.58%. In addition, the Code regulations allow the annual limitation to be increased by certain adjustments, which, for us, would primarily relate to recognized built-in gains on appreciated assets during the five-year recognition period beginning on the ownership change date. Interruptions to, or other problems with, our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes or other operations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability, consistency, security and availability of our website and interactive user interface, information technology systems, manufacturing processes and other operations are critical to our reputation and brand, and to our ability to effectively provide our smart home services to customers and their residents. Any interruptions or other problems that cause our website, interactive user interface or information technology systems to malfunction or be unavailable may damage our reputation and brand, result in lost revenue, cause us to incur significant costs seeking to remedy the problem, and otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. A number of factors or events could cause such interruptions or problems, including among others, human and software errors, design faults, challenges associated with upgrades, changes or new facets of our business, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and security breaches, contract disputes, labor strikes and other workforce-related issues, and other similar events. These risks are augmented by the fact that our customers and their residents use our products and solutions to operate their lights, locks, and other aspects of their living spaces. We are dependent upon our facilities in which we house all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites and systems as well as managerial, customer service, sales, marketing and other similar functions, and we have not identified alternatives to these facilities or established fully redundant systems in multiple locations. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and therefore preventing, identifying, and rectifying problems with these aspects of our systems is to a large extent outside of our control. Moreover, the business interruption insurance that we carry may not be sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business that may result from interruptions in our product lines as a result of system failures. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, each of which may divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations and harm our results of operations. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include acquiring or investing in complementary services, technologies or businesses. On December 31, 2021, the Company purchased all of the outstanding equity interests of iQuue LLC ( " iQuue"), and on March 21, 2022, we purchased all of the outstanding equity interests of SightPlan Holdings Inc. ( " SightPlan " ). We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate or manage disparate technologies, lines of business, personnel and corporate cultures, realize our business strategy or the expected return on our investment, or manage a geographically dispersed company. Any such acquisition or investment could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions and other strategic investments involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; unanticipated costs and liabilities; difficulties in integrating new products, solutions, software, features, services, businesses, operations and technology infrastructure in an efficient and effective manner; difficulties in maintaining customer relations; 19 the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; the potential adverse effect on our cash position to the extent that we use cash for the purchase price; the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage, and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our stockholders percentage ownership; the potential to incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. In addition, our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively, and in a timely manner could impair our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. If we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future, we may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. We intend to continue to make expenditures and investments to support the growth of our business and if we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability, we may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances, including the need to develop new products or software or enhance our existing products and software, enhance our operating infrastructure, and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. However, additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any debt financing that we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. In addition, the restrictive covenants in credit facilities we may secure in the future may restrict us from being able to conduct our operations in a manner required for our business and may restrict our growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with any such restrictive covenants. In the event that we are unable to comply with these covenants in the future, we would seek an amendment or waiver of the covenants. We cannot assure you that any such waiver or amendment would be granted. In such an event, we may be required to repay any or all of our existing borrowings, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow under our existing credit agreements, or obtain alternative funding arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, volatility in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt financing. Any future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property, technology, and confidential information could reduce our competitiveness and harm our business and operating results. Our intellectual property, including our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, constitutes a significant part of our value. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, brands and other intellectual property against dilution, infringement, misappropriation and competitive pressure by defending our intellectual property rights. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. 20 If we fail to adequately protect or assert our intellectual property rights, competitors may dilute our brands or manufacture and market similar products, solutions, software, services, or convert our customers, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Our competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of our existing or future intellectual property rights that we obtain or license. The loss of protection for our intellectual property rights could reduce the market value of our brands and our products and solutions, reduce new customer originations or upgrade sales to existing customers, lower our profits, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our policy is to require our employees that were hired and contractors that were engaged to develop material intellectual property included in our products to execute written agreements in which they assign to us their rights in potential inventions and other intellectual property created within the scope of their employment (or, with respect to consultants and service providers, their engagement to develop such intellectual property), but we cannot assure you that we have adequately protected our rights in every such agreement or that we have executed an agreement with every such party. Finally, in order to benefit from the protection of intellectual property rights, we must monitor and detect infringement, misappropriation or other violations of our intellectual property rights and pursue infringement, misappropriation or other claims in certain circumstances in relevant jurisdictions, all of which are costly and time-consuming. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate protection or to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition to registered trademarks, we rely on trade secret rights, copyrights and other rights to protect our unpatented proprietary intellectual property and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties, including our employees, consultants, service providers, or subscribers may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use our trade secrets or other confidential information. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties that have access to our material confidential information, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information and proprietary technology through certain procedural safeguards. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property or technology, could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products and solutions, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or technology or infringement of our intellectual property rights. Competitors may independently develop technologies, products, or solutions that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and solutions or that inappropriately incorporate our proprietary technology into their products or they may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology or misuse our confidential information. In addition, if we expand the geography of our service offerings, the laws of some foreign countries where we may do business in the future may not protect intellectual property rights and technology to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these countries may not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement, misappropriation, or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and technology, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. Accusations of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business. There has been substantial litigation in the areas in which we operate regarding intellectual property rights and we may be sued for infringement from time to time in the future. Also, in some instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers for expenses and liability resulting from claimed intellectual property infringement by our products and solutions. From time to time, we may receive requests for indemnification in connection with allegations of intellectual property infringement and we may choose, or be required, to assume the defense and/or reimburse our customers for their expenses, settlement and/or liability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to settle any future claims or, if we are able to settle any such claims, that the settlement will be on terms favorable to us. Our broad range of technology may increase the likelihood that third parties will claim that we, or our customers infringe their intellectual property rights. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, notices of allegations of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties proprietary rights. Furthermore, regardless of their merits, accusations and lawsuits like these, may require significant time and expense to defend, may negatively affect customer relationships, may divert managements attention away from other aspects of our operations and, upon resolution, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Certain technology necessary for us to provide our products and solutions may, in fact, be patented by other parties either now or in the future. If such technology were validly patented by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable to us or at all. The existence of such a patent, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and cease offering subscriptions incorporating the technology, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 21 If we, or any of our products or solutions, were found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, we could be subject to liability for such infringement, which could be material. We could also be prohibited from using or selling certain subscriptions, prohibited from using certain processes, or required to redesign certain products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These and other outcomes may: result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; cause us to pay license fees for intellectual property we are deemed to have infringed; cause us to incur costs and devote valuable technical resources to redesigning our products or solutions; cause our cost of revenues to increase; cause us to accelerate expenditures to preserve existing revenues; materially and adversely affect our brand in the marketplace and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; cause us to change our business methods; and require us to cease certain business operations or offering certain products or features. Some of our products and solutions contain open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, technologies, products, and solutions in a manner that could harm our business. We use open source software in our products and solutions and anticipate using open source software in the future. Some open source software licenses require those who distribute open source software as part of their own software product to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software product or to make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. Additionally, we could face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license, or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require us to expend significant additional research and development resources, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful. Additionally, the use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. There is typically no support available for open source software, and we cannot ensure that the authors of such open source software will implement or push updates to address security risks or will not abandon further development and maintenance. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title or performance, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. We have processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our developers for the use of open source software, but we cannot be sure that all open source software is identified or submitted for approval prior to use in our products and services. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Insurance policies may not cover all of our operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could negatively impact our business. We are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to the provision of our products and solutions and business operations. In addition to contractual provisions limiting our liability to customers and third parties, we maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with such coverage and deductibles as required by law and that we believe are reasonable and prudent. Nevertheless, such insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury, death, or property damage arising in the ordinary course of our business and current levels of insurance may not be able to be maintained or may not be available at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not covered by insurance, then we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. 22 Downturns in general economic and market conditions and reductions in spending may reduce demand for our products and solutions, which could harm our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows depend on the overall demand for our products and solutions. Negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, construction slowdowns, energy costs, international trade relations and other geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets could cause a decrease in consumer discretionary spending and business investment and diminish growth expectations in the U.S. economy and abroad. During weak economic times, the available pool of potential customers may decline as the prospects for new multifamily apartment and single-family rental construction and residential building renovation projects diminish, which may have a corresponding impact on our growth prospects. In addition, there is an increased risk during these periods that an increased percentage of property developers will file for bankruptcy protection, which may harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations. In addition, we may determine that the cost of pursuing any claim may outweigh the recovery potential of such claim. Prolonged economic slowdowns and reductions in new residential and commercial building construction and renovation projects may result in diminished sales of our software, services and products. Further worsening, broadening or protracted extension of an economic downturn could have a negative impact on our business, revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in effective tax rates, or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration or non-utilization of net operating loss carryforwards; tax effects of share-based compensation; expansion into new jurisdictions; potential challenges to and costs related to implementation and ongoing operation of our intercompany arrangements; increases in state or federal statutory tax rates on corporate income; changes in tax laws and regulations and accounting principles, or interpretations or applications thereof; and certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions. Any changes in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. Our business is vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins, and similar events. The third-party systems and operations and manufacturers we rely on are subject to similar risks. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, or flood, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas that have higher population density than rural areas, could also cause disruptions in our or our suppliers and manufacturers businesses or the economy as a whole. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in some circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting locations that store significant inventory of our products or that house our servers. As we rely heavily on our computer and communications systems, and the internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality customer service, these disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt suppliers and manufacturers businesses, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We collect, store, process, and use personal information of our customers and their residents, which subjects us to legal obligations and laws and regulations related to security and privacy, and any actual or perceived failure to meet those obligations could harm our business. 23 We collect, process, store, and use a wide variety of data from current and prospective customers and their residents, including personal information, such as home addresses and geolocation. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations governing privacy, data protection, and e-commerce transactions require us to safeguard our customers personal information. The scope of such laws and regulations is rapidly changing. We are also subject to the terms of our privacy policies and contractual obligations to third parties related to privacy, data protection and information security. We strive to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies and other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security. However, the regulatory framework for privacy, data protection, and information security is, and is likely to remain, uncertain for the foreseeable future, and it is possible that these or other actual or alleged obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. We also expect that there will continue to be new laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection, and information security proposed and enacted in various jurisdictions. Various states throughout the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security, and data protection laws and regulations that could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection, and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention, and safeguarding of customer, consumer, resident, employee, or any other third-party information we receive, and some of our current or planned business activities. For example, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 ( CCPA ), that affords consumers who are California residents expanded privacy protections and control over the collection, use and sharing of their personal information. The CCPA went into effect on January 1, 2020 and gives California residents expanded rights to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA also provides for a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. Relatedly, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA) was recently adopted by California voters. The CPRA significantly amends the CCPA and imposes additional data protection obligations on covered companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It also creates a new California data protection agency specifically tasked to enforce the law, which would likely result in increased regulatory scrutiny of California businesses in the areas of data protection and security. The substantive requirements for businesses subject to the CPRA will go into effect on January 1, 2023 and become enforceable on July 1, 2023. Additionally, the interpretations of existing federal and state consumer protection laws relating to online collection, use, dissemination, and security of personal information adopted by the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC), state attorneys general, private plaintiffs, and courts have evolved, and may continue to evolve, over time. Consumer protection laws require us to publish statements that describe how we handle personal information and choices individuals may have about the way we handle their personal information. If such information that we publish is considered untrue, we may be subject to government claims of unfair or deceptive trade practices, which could lead to significant liabilities and consequences. Furthermore, according to the FTC, violating consumers privacy rights or failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce, thus violating Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914 (the FTC Act). The FTC expects a companys data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. With data privacy and security laws and regulations imposing new and relatively burdensome obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other laws and regulations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices, and may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our data privacy or security related obligations to our customers or any of our other legal obligations relating to data privacy or security may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and could result in significant liability, loss of relationships with key third parties, or cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Furthermore, we may be required to disclose personal data pursuant to demands from individuals, privacy advocates, regulators, government agencies, and law enforcement agencies in various jurisdictions with conflicting privacy and security laws. This disclosure or refusal to disclose personal data may result in a breach of privacy and data protection policies, notices, laws, rules, court orders, and regulations and could result in proceedings or actions against us in the same or other jurisdictions, damage to our reputation and brand, and inability to provide our products and services to customers in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, changes in the laws and regulations that govern our collection, use, and disclosure of customer data could impose additional requirements with respect to the retention and security of customer data, could limit our marketing activities, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If our security controls are breached, or if unauthorized or inadvertent access to customer or residential information or other data or to control or view systems is otherwise obtained, our products and solutions may be perceived as insecure, our business may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities. Use of our solutions involves the storage, transmission and processing of personal, payment, credit and other confidential and private information of our customers and their residents, and may in certain cases permit access to our customers vacant and rented property or help secure them. We also maintain and process confidential and proprietary information in our business, including our employees and contractors personal information and confidential business information. We rely on proprietary 24 and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to protect against unauthorized use or access of the information we process and maintain. Our solutions and the networks and information systems we utilize in our business are at risk for breaches as a result of third-party action, employee or partner error, malfeasance, or other factors. In addition, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have enabled substantially all of our employees to work remotely which may make us more vulnerable to cyber-attacks and may create operational or other challenges, any of which could harm our systems or our business. Although we have taken precautionary measures to prepare for these threats and challenges, there is no guarantee that our precautions will fully protect our systems. Although we have established security procedures to protect customers and their resident information, our or our partners security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches. Further, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security, or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer data. Any compromise of our security or breach of our customers or their residents privacy could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. Criminals and other nefarious actors are using increasingly sophisticated methods, including cyber-attacks, phishing, social engineering and other illicit acts to capture, access, or alter various types of information, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft, and to expose and exploit potential security and privacy vulnerabilities in corporate systems and websites. Unauthorized intrusion into the portions of our systems and networks and data storage devices that process and store customer and resident confidential and private information, the loss of such information or the deployment of malware or other harmful code to our services or our networks or systems may result in negative consequences, including the actual or alleged malfunction of our products, software or services. In addition, third parties, including our third-party affiliates, could also be sources of security risks to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. The threats we and our third-party affiliates face continue to evolve and are difficult to predict due to advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and sophisticated methods used by criminals. There can be no assurances that our defensive measures will prevent cyber-attacks or that we will discover network or system intrusions or other breaches on a timely basis or at all. We cannot be certain that we will not suffer a compromise or breach of the technology protecting the systems or networks that house or access our software, services and products or on which we or our partners process or store personal information or other sensitive information or data, or that any such incident will not be believed or reported to have occurred. Any such actual or perceived compromises or breaches to systems, or unauthorized access to our customers data, products, software or services, or acquisition or loss of data, whether suffered by us, our partners or other third parties, whether as a result of employee error or malfeasance or otherwise, could harm our business. They could, for example, cause interruptions in operations, loss of data, loss of confidence in our products and solutions and damage to our reputation, and could limit the adoption of our products and solutions. They could also subject us to costs, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, contract damages, indemnity demands, and other liabilities and materially and adversely affect our customer base, sales, revenues, and profits. Any of these could, in turn, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. If such an event results in unauthorized access to or loss of any data subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations, then we could be subject to substantial fines by U.S. federal and state authorities, foreign data privacy authorities around the world and private claims by companies or individuals. A cyber-attack may cause additional costs, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing individuals and/or data owners with notice of the breach, legal fees, and the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by law, a court, or a third party. Depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach or other unauthorized access to our customer data, we may also have obligations to notify customers about the incident and we may need to provide some form of remedy to such customers or their residents, such as a subscription to a credit monitoring service for the individuals affected by the incident. A growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises customer data. Additionally, some of our customer contracts require us to indemnify customers from damages they may incur as a result of a breach of our systems. There can be no assurance that the limitation of liability provisions in our contracts for a security breach would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Further, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another provider of smart home solutions, our customers and potential customers or their residents may lose trust in the security of our products and solutions or in the smart home technology industry generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. Even in the absence of any security breach, customer concerns about security, privacy or data protection may deter them from using our products and solutions. Our insurance policies covering errors and omissions and certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all potential liability. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. 25 Our products and solutions may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could subject us to personal injury, property damage, product liability, warranty, and other claims, which could adversely affect our business and result in harm to our reputation. We offer complex solutions involving advanced software and web-based interactive user interfaces and hardware products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated software, applications, and web-based interactive user interfaces, such as those offered by us, have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products. Defects may also exist in components and products that we source from third parties. Any such defects could cause our products and solutions to create a risk of property damage and personal injury, and subject us to the hazards and uncertainties of product liability claims and related litigation. In addition, from time to time, we may experience outages, service slowdowns, or errors that affect our software, applications, and web-based interactive user interfaces. As a result, our solutions may not perform as anticipated and may not meet customer expectations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in the hardware, software, and services we offer as part of our products and solutions. Failure to do so could result in widespread technical and performance issues affecting our products and solutions and could lead to claims against us. We maintain general liability insurance; however, design and manufacturing defects, and claims related thereto, may subject us to judgments or settlements that result in damages materially in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. In addition, we may be exposed to recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory, property, plant and equipment, or intangible assets, and significant warranty and other expenses such as litigation costs and regulatory fines. If we cannot successfully defend any large claim, maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms, or maintain adequate coverage against potential claims, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Further, given that our customers deploy our products and solutions to provide a safe and secure living space to their residents, quality problems could subject us to substantial liability, adversely affect the experience for users of our products and solutions and result in harm to our reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for our products and solutions, delay in new product and solution introductions, and lost revenue. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention and affect our ability to attract and retain senior management and qualified board members. As a public company, we will be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE or other securities exchange on which our securities are traded, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure