Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless otherwise stated, statistical information regarding our users and their activities is determined by calculating the daily average of the selected activity for the most recently completed quarter included in this report. While these metrics are determined based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our products are used across large populations globally. For example, there may be individuals who attempt to create accounts for malicious purposes, including at scale, even though we forbid that in our Terms of Service and Community Guidelines. We implement measures in our user registration process and through other technical measures to prevent, detect, and suppress that behavior, although we have not determined the number of such accounts. Changes in our products, infrastructure, mobile operating systems, or metric tracking system, or the introduction of new products, may impact our ability to accurately determine active users or other metrics and we may not determine such inaccuracies promptly. We also believe that we dont capture all data regarding each of our active users. Technical issues may result in data not being recorded from every users application. For example, because some Snapchat features can be used without internet connectivity, we may not count a DAU because we dont receive timely notice that a user has opened the Snapchat application. This undercounting may increase as we grow in Rest of World markets where users may have poor connectivity. We do not adjust our reported metrics to reflect this underreporting. We believe that we have adequate controls to collect user metrics, however, there is no uniform industry standard. We continually seek to identify these technical issues and improve both our accuracy and precision, including ensuring that our investors and others can understand the factors impacting our business, but these technical issues and new issues may continue in the future, including if there continues to be no uniform industry standard. Some of our demographic data may be incomplete or inaccurate. For example, because users self-report their dates of birth, our age-demographic data may differ from our users actual ages. And because users who signed up for Snapchat before June 2013 were not asked to supply their date of birth, we may exclude those users from our age demographics or estimate their ages based on a sample of the self-reported ages that we do have. If our active users provide us with incorrect or incomplete information regarding their age or other attributes, then our estimates may prove inaccurate and fail to meet investor expectations. We count a DAU only when a user visits Snapchat through our applications or websites and only once per user per day. We believe this methodology more accurately measures our user engagement. We have multiple pipelines of user data that we use to determine whether a user has visited Snapchat through our applications or websites during a particular day. This provides redundancy in the event one pipeline of data were to become unavailable for technical reasons, and also gives us redundant data to help measure how users interact with our application. If we fail to maintain an effective analytics platform, our metrics calculations may be inaccurate. We regularly review, have adjusted in the past, and are likely in the future to adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. As a result of such adjustments, our DAUs or other metrics may not be comparable to those in prior periods. Our measures of DAUs may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology or data used. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Snap Inc. is a technology company. We believe the camera presents the greatest opportunity to improve the way people live and communicate. We contribute to human progress by empowering people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together. Our flagship product, Snapchat, is a visual messaging application that enhances your relationships with friends, family, and the world. Visual messaging is a fast, fun way to communicate with friends and family using augmented reality, video, voice, messaging, and creative tools. Snaps are deleted by default to mimic real-life conversations, so there is less pressure to look popular or perfect when creating and sending images on Snapchat. By reducing the friction typically associated with creating and sharing content, Snapchat has become one of the most used cameras in the world. The camera is a powerful tool for communication and the entry point for augmented reality experiences. By opening directly to the camera, Snapchat empowers our community to express themselves instantly and offers millions of augmented reality Lenses for self expression, learning, and play. In the way that the flashing cursor became the starting point for most products on desktop computers, we believe the camera screen will be the starting point for most products on smartphones. This is because images created by smartphone cameras contain more context and richer information than other forms of input like text entered on a keyboard. Given the magnitude of this opportunity, we are investing and innovating to continue to deliver products and services that are differentiated and that are better able to reflect and improve our life experiences. Snapchat Snapchat is our core mobile device application and contains five distinct tabs, complemented by additional tools that function outside of the application. With a breadth of visual messaging and content experiences available within the application, Snapchatters can interact with any or all of the five tabs. Camera: The Camera is a powerful tool for communication and the entry point for augmented reality experiences in Snapchat. Snapchat opens directly to the Camera, making it easy to create a Snap and send it to friends. Our augmented reality, or AR, capabilities within our Camera allow for creativity and self-expression. We offer millions of Lenses, created by both us and our community, along with creative tools and licensed music and audio clips, which make it easy for people to personalize and contextualize their Snaps. We also offer voice and scanning technology within our Camera. While Snaps are deleted by default to mimic real-life conversations, Snapchatters can save their creativity through a searchable collection of Memories stored on both their Snapchat account and their mobile device. Visual Messaging: Visual Messaging is a fast, fun way to communicate with friends and family using AR, video, voice, messaging, and creative tools. We also offer My AI, our AI-powered chatbot, which helps our community foster creativity and connection with friends, receive real-world recommendations, and learn more about their interests and favorite subjects. They can also communicate through our proprietary personalized avatar tool, Bitmoji, and its associated contextual stickers and images, which integrate seamlessly into both mobile devices and desktop browsers. Snap Map: Snap Map is a live and highly personalized map that allows Snapchatters to connect with friends and explore what is going on in their local area. Snap Map makes it easy to locate nearby friends who choose to share their location, view a heatmap of recent Snaps posted to Our Story by location, and locate local businesses. Places, rich profiles of local businesses that include information such as store hours and reviews, overlay specialized experiences from select partners on top of Snap Map, and allow Snapchatters to take direct actions from Snap Map, such as sharing a favorite store, ordering takeout, or making a reservation. Stories: Stories are a fun way to stay connected, and feature content from friends, our community, and our content partners. Friends Stories allow Snapchatters to express themselves in narrative form through photos and videos, shown in chronological order, to their friends. The Discover section of this tab displays curated content based on a Snapchatters subscriptions and interests, and features news and entertainment from both our creator community and publisher partners. We also offer Public Profiles as a way for our creator community and our advertising partners to memorialize and scale their content and AR Lenses on our platform. 6 Table of Contents Spotlight: Spotlight showcases the best of Snapchat, helping people discover new creators and content in a personalized way. Here we surface the most entertaining Snaps from our community all in one place, which becomes tailored to each Snapchatter over time based on their preferences and favorites. The Trending page allows Snapchatters to discover and engage with popular topics and genres. We are currently testing a new and simplified version of Snapchat referred to as Simple Snapchat, which organizes the tabs into three core experiences focused on communicating with friends, using the camera, and watching entertaining content. In addition to our core Snapchat product, we offer Snapchat+, our subscription service that provides subscribers access to exclusive, experimental, and pre-release features. Snapchat+ offers a variety of features from allowing Snapchatters to customize the look and feel of their app to giving special insights into their friendships. We also offer Snapchat for Web, a browser-based product that brings Snapchats signature capabilities to the web. Spectacles are our wearable AR glasses, which overlay computing over the world and extend the immersive AR Lenses experience beyond Snapchat. Spectacles are powered by Snap OS, a new purpose-built operating system with a natural interface that uses your hands and voice without the need for physical controllers. Spectacles are available to professional and hobbyist developers through our Spectacle Developer Program to create AR experiences through Lens Studio, our free AR development and distribution tool. Our Partner Ecosystem Many elements and features of Snapchat are enhanced by our expansive partner ecosystem that includes developers, creators, publishers, and advertisers, among others. We help them create and bring diverse content and experiences into Snapchat, leverage Snapchat capabilities in their own applications and websites, and use advertising to promote these and other experiences to our large, engaged, and differentiated user base. We seek to reward our partner ecosystem for their creativity, and continue to support them as they grow their audience and build their business on Snapchat. Developers are able to integrate with Snapchat and its core technologies, like Snaps AR Camera and Bitmoji, through a variety of tools. Creative Kit gives developers and their communities a seamless sharing experience from their app directly to Snapchat. Through Camera Kit, our partners can embed Snaps AR platform directly into their application, extending the use of AR beyond self-expression and communication use cases. We also provide developers a turnkey suite of tools and services that enable them to create AR Lenses and track the performance of those through analytics. Finally, developers can bring an inclusive mode of identity and expression to their apps and games with our Bitmoji for Developers APIs. AR creators can use Lens Studio, our powerful desktop application designed for creators and developers, to build Lenses and AR experiences for Snapchatters. Spotlight creators can utilize our content creation tools to reach millions of Snapchatters and build their businesses through various monetization opportunities. Our Creator Marketplace connects both AR and Spotlight creators directly with our advertising partners. We provide monetizable opportunities through programs like the Snap Lens Network and Spectacles Lens Fund, which provide grants to support AR product development across many industries. We recognize and reward top performing Lenses through our Lens Creator Rewards program. We also support our content creator community through a number of programs, including advertising revenue sharing on our mid-roll advertisements in Snap Stars Stories and Spotlight. Publisher partners can expand their audiences and monetize content through our Discover section. In addition, we work with various telecommunications providers and original equipment manufacturers, particularly as we build our presence in new markets. Our Advertising Products We connect both brand and direct response advertisers to Snapchatters globally. Our ad products are built on the same foundation that makes our consumer products successful. This means that we can take the things we learn while creating our consumer products and apply them to building innovative and engaging advertising products familiar to our community. 7 Table of Contents AR Ads: Advertising through Snaps AR tools unlocks the ability to reach a unique audience in a highly differentiated way through AR Lenses. AR Lenses are designed through our camera to take advantage of the reach and scale of our augmented reality platform to create visually engaging 3D experiences, including the ability to visualize and try on products such as beauty, apparel, accessories, and footwear. AR Lenses can be memorialized on Snapchat, through Public Profiles that aggregate content and lenses in a single, easy to find place. Snap Ads: We let advertisers tell their stories the same way our users do, using full screen videos with sound. These also allow advertisers to integrate additional experiences and actions directly within these advertisements, including watching a long-form video, visiting a website, or installing an app. Snap Ads include the following: Single Image or Video Ads: These are full screen ads that are skippable, and can contain an attachment to enable Snapchatters to swipe up and take action. Story Ads: Story Ads are branded tiles that live within the Discover section of the Stories tab that can be either video ads or a series of 3 to 20 images. Collection Ads: Collection Ads feature four tappable tiles to showcase multiple products, giving Snapchatters a frictionless way to browse and buy. Dynamic Ads: Dynamic ads leverage our machine learning algorithm to match a product catalog to serve the right ad to the right Snapchatter at the right time. Commercials: Commercials are non-skippable for six seconds, but can last up to three minutes. These ads appear within Snapchats curated content. Sponsored Snaps: Sponsored Snaps allow advertisers to communicate visually with the Snapchat community through sponsored messages within the chat tab. Promoted Places: Promoted Places allow businesses to use the Snap Map to suggest sponsored places of interest to Snapchatters by highlighting the brands locations on the Snap Map with a promoted pin. Campaign Management and Delivery: We aim to continually improve the way these ad formats are purchased and delivered. We have invested heavily to build our self-serve advertising platform, which provides automated, sophisticated, and scalable ad buying and campaign management. We offer the ability to bid for advertisements that are designated to drive Snapchatters to: visit a website, make a purchase, visit a local business, call or text a business, watch a story or video, download an app, or return to an app, among others. Additionally, our delivery framework continues to optimize relevance of ads across the entire platform by determining the best ad to show to any given user based on their real-time and historical attributes and activity. This decreases the number of wasted impressions while improving the effectiveness of the ads that are shown to our community. This helps advertisers increase their return on investment by providing more refined targeting, the ability to test and learn with different creatives or campaign attributes in real time, and the dynamics of our self-serve pricing. Measuring Advertising Effectiveness: We offer first-party measurement solutions and we support our advertising partners preferred third-party measurement solutions to provide a vast array of analytics on campaign attributes like reach, frequency, demographics, and viewability; changes in perceptions like brand favorability or purchase intent; and lifts in actual behavior like purchases, foot traffic, app installs, and online purchases. Technology Our research and development efforts focus on product development, advertising technology, and large-scale infrastructure. Product Development: We work relentlessly and invest deliberately to create and improve products for our community and our partners. We develop a wide range of products related to visual messaging and storytelling that are powered by a variety of new technologies. Advertising Technology: We constantly develop and expand our advertising products and technology. In an effort to provide a strong and scalable return on investment to our advertisers, our advertising technology roadmap centers around improving our delivery framework, measurement capabilities, and self-serve tools. 8 Table of Contents Large-scale Infrastructure: We spend considerable resources and investment on the underlying architecture that powers our products, such as optimizing the delivery of billions of videos to hundreds of millions of people around the world every day. We currently partner with third party providers to support the infrastructure for our growing needs. These partnerships have allowed us to scale quickly without upfront physical infrastructure costs, allowing us to focus our efforts on product innovation. Employees and Culture We seek to be a force for good through our products, our work to strengthen our communities, our efforts to make a positive impact on the planet, and our inclusive workplace. Supporting Our Team: Our values at Snap are being kind, smart, and creative, and we put those values into action through how we support our team and how our team supports one another. Council, which is a practice of active listening that promotes open-mindedness and cultivates empathy and compassion among participants, helps us build and sustain a community steeped in integrity, connection, collaboration, creativity, and kindness. Our talent development programs seek to unlock potential by helping team members advance, learn, and grow in a fair and equitable way at Snap. We focus on the health and well-being of our employees through programs and benefits that support their physical, emotional, and financial fitness. To attract and retain the best talent, we offer challenging work in an environment that enables our employees to have a direct meaningful contribution to new and exciting projects. Underlying these values is our commitment to ethical conduct where we work to instill in our team that acting with integrity means being your whole self, being honest, and doing the right thing. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Snap has long supported Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, or DEI, so that every team member uses their unique backgrounds, experiences, and abilities to build products that uplift the lived experiences of Snapchatters globally. To aid in our mission, we publish a Diversity Annual Report that discusses our diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy. This report outlines our beliefs around the idea that an inclusive workplace and inclusive products are central to achieving that purpose. This report is excerpted in our broader CitizenSnap Report that details the work were doing to support our communities, our planet, and our team, and is available on our website at www.snap.com. Human Capital: As part of our human capital resource objectives, we seek to recruit, retain, and incentivize our highly talented existing and future employees. We believe that creating an inclusive environment where team members can grow, develop, and be their true selves is critical to attracting and retaining talent. Our compensation philosophies also align to that belief. Our compensation philosophy is based around building a culture of ownership and high performance by putting both impact and our values at the center of our performance feedback process and pay outcomes. We utilize equity as part of our compensation practices to drive a long-term orientation and have committed to paying a minimum living wage for all employees globally. As of December 31, 2024, we had 4,911 full-time employees, of whom approximately 52% are in engineering roles involved in the design, development, support, and manufacture of new and existing products and processes. Climate Change: Our commitment to combating climate change remains unchanged. In 2021, we adopted a set of science-based emissions reduction targets which were validated by the Science Based Targets Initiative. Additionally, in 2021, we achieved carbon neutrality with the purchase of carbon offsets for our historical operations from our founding in 2011 through 2020. Since then, weve maintained our carbon-neutral status each year through the purchase of carbon offsets for emissions attributable to us. Our Commitment to Privacy Our approach to privacy is simple: Be upfront, offer choices, and never forget that our community comes first. We built Snapchat as an antidote to the context-less communication that has plagued social media. Not so long ago, a conversation among friends would be just that: a private communication in which you knew exactly who you were talking to, what you were talking about, and whether what you were saying was being memorialized for eternity. Somewhere along the way, social mediaby prioritizing virality and permanencesapped conversations of this valuable context and choice. When we began to communicate online, we lost some of what made communication great: spontaneity, emotion, honestythe full range of human expression that makes us human in the first place. 9 Table of Contents We dont think digital communication has to be this way. Thats why choice matters. We build products and services that emphasize the context of a conversationwho, when, what, and where something is being said. If you dont have the autonomy to shape the context of a conversation, the conversation will simply be shaped by the permanent feeds that homogenize online conversations. When you read our Privacy Policy, we hope that youll notice how much we care about the integrity of personal communication. For starters, weve written our Privacy Policy in plain language because we think its important that everyone understands exactly how we handle their information. Otherwise, its hard to make informed choices about how you communicate. Weve also created a robust Privacy, Safety, and Policy Hub where we show that context and choice are more than talking points. There, we point out the many ways that users can control who sees their Snaps and Stories, and explain how long content will remain on our servers, how users can manage the information that we do have about them, and much more. This is where youll also find our Transparency Report in which we provide insight into these efforts and visibility into the nature and volume of content reported on our platform. We also understand that privacy policiesno matter how ambitiousare only as good as the people and practices behind those policies. When someone trusts us to transmit or store their information, we know we have a responsibility to protect that information and we work hard to keep it secure. New features go through an intense privacy-review processwe debate pros and cons, and we work hard to build products were proud of and that well want to use. We handle user information with the same care that we want for our family, our friends, and ourselves. Competition We compete with other companies in every aspect of our business, particularly with companies that focus on mobile engagement and advertising. Many of these companies, such as Alphabet (including Google and YouTube), Apple, ByteDance (including TikTok), Meta (including Facebook, Instagram, Threads, and WhatsApp), Pinterest, and X (formerly Twitter), may have greater financial and human resources and, in some cases, larger user bases. Given the breadth of our product offerings, we also compete with companies that develop products or otherwise operate in the mobile, camera, communication, content, and advertising industries that offer, or will offer, products and services that may compete with Snapchat features or offerings. Our competitors span from internet technology companies and digital platforms, to traditional companies in print, radio, and television sectors to underlying technologies like default smartphone cameras and messaging. Additionally, our competition for engagement varies by region. For instance, we face competition from companies like Kakao, LINE, Naver (including Snow), and Tencent in Asia. We compete to attract and retain our users attention, both in terms of reach and engagement. Since our products and those of our competitors are typically free, we compete based on our brand and the quality and nature of our product offerings rather than on price. As such, we invest heavily in constantly improving and expanding our product lines. We also compete with other companies to attract and retain partners and advertisers, which depends primarily on our reach and ability to deliver a strong return on investment. Finally, we compete to attract and retain highly talented individuals, including software engineers, designers, and product managers. In addition to providing competitive compensation packages, we compete for talent by fostering a culture of working hard to create great products and experiences and allowing our employees to have a direct meaningful contribution to new and exciting projects. Seasonality in Our Business We have historically seen seasonality in our business. Overall advertising spend tends to be strongest in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, and we have observed a similar pattern in our historical revenue. We have also experienced seasonality in our user engagement, generally seeing lower engagement during summer months and higher engagement in December. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights in the United States and other jurisdictions, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, license agreements, internal procedures, and contractual provisions. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and 10 Table of Contents contractors and sign confidentiality agreements with third parties. Our internal controls are designed to restrict access to proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 4,169 issued patents and approximately 3,263 filed patent applications in the United States and foreign countries relating to our Snapchat, Lens Studio, Spectacles and Snap OS products, augmented reality, AI and machine learning, and other technologies. Our issued patents will expire between 2025 and 2047. We may not be able to obtain protection for our intellectual property, and our existing and future patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. We license content, trademarks, technology, and other intellectual property from our partners, and rely on our license agreements with those partners to use the intellectual property. We also enter into licensing agreements with third parties to receive rights to patents and other know-how. Third parties may assert claims related to intellectual property rights against our partners or us. Other companies and non-practicing entities that own patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights related to the mobile, camera, communication, content, internet, and other technology-related industries frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, and other violations of intellectual property or other rights. As our business continues to grow and competition increases, we will likely face more claims related to intellectual property and litigation matters. Government Regulation We are subject to many federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to advertising, algorithms, anti-money laundering, competition, consumer protection, content regulation, data protection, electronic funds transfers, employment, encryption, gift cards, health and safety, import and export restrictions, intellectual property, communication, money transmission, privacy, protection of minors, rights of publicity, and taxation. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended in a manner that could harm our business. Like other companies in our industry, we face increasingly heightened scrutiny from both the United States and foreign governments with respect to our compliance with laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods, and we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. We are also currently, and may in the future be, subject to regulatory orders or consent decrees, including the consent order that we entered into with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, in December 2014, which resolved an investigation into some of our early practices. That order requires, among other things, that we establish a robust privacy program to govern how we treat user data. During the 20-year lifespan of the order, we must complete biennial independent privacy audits. The FTC has continued to review our practices and in January 2025, announced the referral of a complaint to the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, pertaining to our deployment of our My AI feature and the allegedly resulting risk of harm to young users. Any enforcement action related to this matter, or any violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. It is possible that certain governments may seek to block or limit our products or otherwise impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility or usability of any or all our products for an extended period of time or indefinitely. Due to such laws and regulations, our products may not be available in all locations. Our public policy team monitors legal and regulatory developments in the United States, as well as many foreign countries, and communicates with policymakers and regulators in the United States and internationally. For additional information about government regulation applicable to our business, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A and Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 11 Table of Contents Information about Geographic Revenue and Segments Information about geographic revenue and segments is set forth in Notes 2 and 19, respectively, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in Part II, Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information Our website address is www.snap.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are filed with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed or furnished by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at investor.snap.com when such reports are available on the SECs website. We use our website, including investor.snap.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Information contained in, or accessible through, the websites referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to website addresses are only as inactive textual references. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs (or if any of those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occurs), our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects could be seriously harmed. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being seriously harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue, and future prospects. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our ecosystem of users, advertisers, and partners depends on the engagement of our user base. Our user base growth rate has declined in the past and it may do so again in the future. If we fail to retain current users or add new users, or if our users engage less with Snapchat, our business would be seriously harmed. We had 453 million daily active users, or DAUs, on average in the quarter ended December 31, 2024. We view DAUs as a critical measure of our user engagement, and adding, maintaining, and engaging DAUs have been and will continue to be necessary. Our DAUs and DAU growth rate have declined in the past and they may decline in the future due to various factors, including as the size of our active user base increases, as we achieve higher market penetration rates, as we face continued competition for our users and their time, or if there are performance issues with our service. In addition, as we achieve maximum market penetration rates among younger users in developed markets, future growth in DAUs will need to come from older users in those markets or from developing markets, which may not be possible or may be more difficult, expensive, or time-consuming for us to achieve. While we may experience periods when our DAUs increase due to products and services with short-term popularity, we may not always be able to attract new users, retain existing users, or maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement if current or potential new users do not perceive our products to be fun, engaging, or useful. In addition, because our products typically require high bandwidth data capabilities for users to benefit from all of the features and capabilities of our application, many of our users live in countries with high-end mobile device penetration and high bandwidth capacity cellular networks with large coverage areas. We therefore do not expect to experience rapid user growth or engagement in regions with either low smartphone penetration or a lack of well-established and high bandwidth capacity cellular networks. As our DAU growth rate continues to slow or if the number of DAUs becomes stagnant, or we have a decline in DAUs, our financial performance will increasingly depend on our ability to elevate user activity or increase the monetization of our users. Snapchat is free and easy to join, the barrier to entry for new entrants in our business is low, and the switching costs to another platform are also low. Moreover, the majority of our users are 18-34 years old. This demographic may be less brand loyal and more likely to follow trends, including viral trends, than other demographics. These factors may lead users to switch to another product, which would negatively affect our user retention, growth, and engagement. Snapchat also may not be able to penetrate other demographics in a meaningful manner. Falling user retention, growth, or engagement could make Snapchat less attractive to advertisers and partners, which may seriously harm our business. In addition, we continue to compete with other companies to attract and retain our users attention. There are many factors that could negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including if: users engage more with competing products instead of ours; our competitors continue to mimic our products or improve on them; we fail to introduce new and exciting products and services or those we introduce or modify are poorly received; our products fail to operate effectively or compatibly on the iOS or Android mobile operating systems; we are unable to continue to develop products that work with a variety of mobile operating systems, networks, and smartphones; we do not provide a compelling user experience because of the decisions we make regarding the type and frequency of advertisements that we display or the structure and design of our products; we are unable to combat bad actors, spam, or other hostile or inappropriate usage on our products; 13 Table of Contents there are changes in user sentiment about the quality or usefulness of our products in the short-term, long-term, or both; there are concerns about the privacy implications, safety, or security of our products and our processing of personal data; our content partners do not create content that is engaging, useful, or relevant to users; our content partners decide not to renew agreements or devote the resources to create engaging content, or do not provide content exclusively to us; advertisers and partners display ads that are untrue, offensive, or otherwise fail to follow our guidelines; our products are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny or approvals, including from foreign privacy regulators, or there are changes in our products that are mandated or prompted by legislation, regulatory authorities, executive actions, or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees, that adversely affect the user experience; technical or other problems frustrate the user experience or negatively impact users trust in our service, including by providers that host our platforms, particularly if those problems prevent us from delivering our product experience in a fast and reliable manner, or cyberattacks, breaches, or other security incidents that compromise our sensitive user data; we fail to provide adequate service to users, advertisers, or partners; we do not provide a compelling user experience to entice users to use the Snapchat application on a daily basis, or our users dont have the ability to make new friends to maximize the user experience; we, our partners, or other companies in our industry segment are the subject of adverse media reports or other negative publicity, some of which may be inaccurate or include confidential information that we are unable to correct or retract; we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged; or our current or future products reduce user activity on Snapchat by making it easier for our users to interact directly with our partners. Any decrease to user retention, growth, or engagement could render our products less attractive to users, advertisers, or partners, and would seriously harm our business. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. The failure to attract new advertisers, the loss of advertisers, or a reduction in how much they spend could seriously harm our business. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from third parties advertising on Snapchat. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022, advertising revenue accounted for approximately 91%, 96%, and 99% of our total revenue, respectively. Even though we have introduced other revenue streams, including subscription models, we still expect advertising revenue to account for substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Most advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us, and our efforts to establish long-term commitments may not succeed. Our advertising customers range from small businesses to well-known brands, including advertising resellers. Many of our customers spend a relatively small portion of their overall advertising budget with us, but some customers have devoted meaningful budgets that contribute more significantly to our total revenue. In addition, advertisers may view some of our advertising solutions as experimental and unproven, or prefer certain of our products over others. Advertisers, including our customers who have devoted meaningful advertising budgets to our product, will not continue to do business with us if we do not deliver advertisements in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. As our business continues to develop, there may be new or existing customers, including from different geographic regions, that contribute more significantly to our total revenue, and a loss of such customers or a significant reduction in how much they spend with us could adversely impact our business. Any economic or political instability, whether as a result of the macroeconomic climate or the implementation of tariffs by the United States or other governments, war or other armed conflict, terrorism, or otherwise, in a specific country or region, may negatively impact the global or local economy, advertising ecosystem, our customers and their budgets with us, or our ability to forecast our advertising revenue, and could seriously harm our business. Moreover, we rely heavily on our ability to collect, process, and disclose data and metrics to our customers so we can attract new customers and retain existing customers. Any restriction, whether by law, regulation, policy, or other 14 Table of Contents reason, on our ability to collect, process, and disclose data and metrics that our customers find useful would impede our ability to attract and retain advertisers. Regulators in many countries in which we operate or have users are increasingly scrutinizing and regulating the collection, use, and sharing of personal data related to advertising, which could materially impact our revenue and seriously harm our business. Many of these laws and regulations expand the rights of individuals to control how their personal data is collected and processed, and place restrictions on the use of personal data of teens. The processing of personal data for personalized advertising continues to be under increased scrutiny from regulators, which includes ongoing regulatory action against large technology companies like ours, the outcomes of which may be uncertain and subject to appeal. These laws may prohibit us and our customers from advertising to teens, including based on the profiling of personal data. Other legislative proposals and present laws and regulations may also apply to our or our advertisers activities and require significant operational changes to our business. These laws and regulations could have a material impact on the development and deployment of AI and machine learning in the context of our targeted advertising activities. Other laws to which we are or may become subject further regulate contextual, behavioral, interest-based, or targeted advertising, making certain online advertising activities more difficult and subject to additional scrutiny. These laws grant users the right to opt-out of sharing of their personal data for certain advertising purposes in exchange for money or other valuable consideration, or require parental consent to be obtained for the processing of personal data of users under a certain age and restrict tracking and use of teens data, including for advertising. Regulators have issued significant monetary fines in certain circumstances where the regulators alleged that appropriate consent was not obtained in connection with targeted advertising activities. In addition, legislative proposals and present laws and regulations in countries where we operate regulate the use of cookies and other tracking technologies, electronic communications, and marketing. Furthermore, in April 2021, Apple issued an iOS update that imposed heightened restrictions on our access and use of user data by allowing users to more easily opt-out of tracking of activity across devices. Additionally, Google has in the past implemented privacy controls on its Android devices and may in the future make changes to those privacy controls similar to Apples prior iOS update. The changes implemented by Apple have had, and similar changes, if implemented by Google or major web browsers, like Firefox, Safari, and Chrome, would have an adverse effect on our targeting, measurement, and optimization capabilities, and in turn our ability to target advertisements and measure the effectiveness of advertisements on our services. This has resulted in, and in the future is likely to continue to result in, reduced demand and pricing for our advertising products and could seriously harm our business. The longer-term impact of these changes on the overall mobile advertising ecosystem, our competitors, our business, and the developers, partners, and advertisers within our community remains uncertain, and depending on how we, our competitors, and the overall mobile advertising ecosystem adjusts, and how our partners, advertisers, and users respond, our business could be seriously harmed. Any alternative solutions we implement are subject to rules and standards set by the owners of such mobile operating systems which may be unclear, change, or be interpreted in a manner adverse to us and require us to halt or change our solutions, any of which could seriously harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to mitigate or respond to these and future developments, and alternative solutions do not become widely adopted by our advertisers, then our targeting, measurement, and optimization capabilities will be materially and adversely affected, which would in turn continue to negatively impact our advertising revenue. Our advertising revenue could also be seriously harmed by many other factors, including: diminished or stagnant growth, or a decline, in the total or regional number of DAUs on Snapchat; our inability to deliver advertisements to all of our users due to legal restrictions or hardware, software, or network limitations; a decrease in the amount of time spent on Snapchat, a decrease in the amount of content that our users share, or decreases in usage of our Camera, Visual Messaging, Map, Stories, and Spotlight platforms; our inability to create new products that sustain or increase the value of our advertisements; changes in our user demographics that make us less attractive to advertisers; lack of ad creative availability by our advertising partners; a decline in our available content, including if our content partners do not renew agreements, devote the resources to create engaging content, or provide content exclusively to us; decreases in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness, or relevance of the content provided by us, our community, or partners; decreases in user response rate to application notifications received from Snapchat, whether due to decreased user appreciation for notifications generally or changes in the manner notifications are delivered by mobile operating systems, which may decrease user engagement; 15 Table of Contents increases in resistance by users to our collecting, using, and sharing their personal data for advertising-related purposes; changes in our analytics and measurement solutions, including what we are permitted to collect and disclose under the terms of Apples and Googles mobile operating systems, that demonstrate the value of our advertisements and other commercial content; competitive developments or advertiser perception of the value of our products that change the rates we can charge for advertising or the volume of advertising on Snapchat; product changes or advertising inventory management decisions we may make that change the type, size, frequency, or effectiveness of advertisements displayed on Snapchat or the method used by advertisers to purchase advertisements; adverse legal developments relating to advertising, including changes mandated or prompted by legislation, regulation, executive actions, or litigation regarding the collection, use, and sharing of personal data for certain advertising-related purposes; adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us, our founders, our partners, or other companies in our industry; advertiser or user perception that content published by us, our users, or our partners is objectionable; the degree to which users skip advertisements and therefore diminish the value of those advertisements to advertisers; changes in the way advertising is priced or its effectiveness is measured; our inability, or perceived inability, to achieve an advertisers intended performance metric, measure the effectiveness of our advertising, or target the appropriate audience for advertisements, including due to metric estimates published by third parties that may differ from our own metrics; our inability to access, collect, and disclose users personal data, including advertising or similar deterministic identifiers that new and existing advertisers may find useful; difficulty and frustration from advertisers who may need to reformat or change their advertisements to comply with our guidelines; volatility in the equity markets, which may reduce our advertisers capacity or desire for aggressive advertising spending towards growth; and the political, economic, and macroeconomic climate and the status of the advertising industry in general, including impacts related to labor shortages and disruptions, supply chain disruptions, banking instability, tariffs implemented by the United States or other governments, inflation, and as a result of war, terrorism, or armed conflict. Moreover, individuals are also increasingly aware of and resistant to the collection, use, and sharing of personal data in connection with advertising. Individuals are more aware of options and certain rights related to consent and other options to opt-out of such data processing, including through media attention about privacy and data protection. Some users have opted out of allowing us to combine certain data from third-party apps and websites with certain data from Snapchat for advertising purposes, which has negatively impacted our ability to collect or use certain user data and our advertising partners ability to deliver relevant content, all of which have in the past and could again in the future negatively impact our business. These and other factors could reduce demand for our advertising products, which may lower the prices we receive, or cause advertisers to stop advertising with us altogether. Either of these would seriously harm our business. Snapchat depends on effectively operating with mobile operating systems, hardware, networks, regulations, and standards that we do not control. Changes in our products or to those mobile operating systems, hardware, networks, regulations, or standards may seriously harm our user retention, growth, and engagement. Because Snapchat is used primarily on mobile devices, the application must remain interoperable with popular mobile operating systems, primarily Android and iOS, application stores, and related hardware, including mobile-device cameras. The owners and operators of such mobile operating systems and application stores, primarily Google and Apple, each have approval authority over whether to feature our core products on their application stores and make available to 16 Table of Contents consumers third-party products that compete with ours. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that any approval previously provided by such owner or operator will not be rescinded in the future. Additionally, mobile devices and mobile-device cameras are manufactured by a wide array of companies. Those companies have no obligation to test the interoperability of new mobile devices, mobile-device cameras, or related devices with Snapchat, and may produce new products that are incompatible with or not optimal for Snapchat. We have no control over these mobile operating systems, application stores, or hardware, and any changes may degrade our products functionality, or give preferential treatment to competitive products. For instance, Apples iOS 18, introduced in September 2024, makes it more difficult for us to access a Snapchatters contact book, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to connect Snapchatters with their close friends, potentially reducing engagement on our platform. Because these changes do not apply to Apples iMessage app, it may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Actions by government authorities may also impact our access to these systems or hardware and could seriously harm Snapchat usage. Our competitors that control the mobile operating systems and related hardware could make interoperability of our products more difficult or display their competitive offerings more prominently than ours. Additionally, our competitors that control the standards for the application stores could make Snapchat, or certain features of Snapchat, inaccessible for a potentially significant period of time or require us to make changes to maintain access. We plan to continue to introduce new products and features regularly, including some features that may only work on the latest systems and hardware, and have experienced that it takes significant time to optimize new products and features to function with the variety of existing mobile operating systems, hardware, and standards, impacting the popularity of such products, and we expect this trend to continue. Moreover, our products require high-bandwidth data capabilities. If the costs of data usage increase or access to cellular networks is limited, our user retention, growth, and engagement may be seriously harmed. Additionally, to deliver high-quality video and other content over mobile cellular networks, our products must work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, regulations, and standards that we do not control and which may be subject to future changes. In addition, the proposal or adoption of any laws, regulations, or initiatives that adversely affect the growth, popularity, or use of the internet, including laws governing internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products, including by impairing our ability to retain existing users or attract new users, make Snapchat a less attractive alternative to our competitors applications, and increase our cost of doing business. We may not successfully cultivate relationships with key industry participants or develop products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, regulations, or standards. If it becomes more difficult for our users to access and use Snapchat, if our users choose not to access or use Snapchat, or if our users choose to use products that do not offer access to Snapchat, our business and user retention, growth, and engagement could be seriously harmed. We rely on Google Cloud and Amazon Web Services, or AWS, for the vast majority of our computing, storage, bandwidth, and other services. Any disruption of or interference with our use of either platform would negatively affect our operations and seriously harm our business. Google and Amazon provide distributed computing infrastructure platforms for business operations, commonly referred to as a cloud computing service. We currently run the vast majority of our computing on Google Cloud and AWS and have built our software and computer systems to use computing, storage capabilities, bandwidth, and other services provided by Google Cloud and AWS. Our systems are not fully redundant on the two platforms. Any transition of the cloud services currently provided by either Google Cloud or AWS to the other platform or to another cloud provider would be difficult to implement and would cause us to incur significant time and expense. Given this, any significant disruption of or interference with Google Cloud or AWS, whether temporary, regular, or prolonged, would negatively impact our operations and our business would be seriously harmed. If our users or partners are not able to access Snapchat or specific Snapchat features, or encounter difficulties in doing so, due to issues or disruptions with Google Cloud or AWS, we may lose users, partners, or advertising revenue. The level of service provided by Google Cloud and AWS or similar providers may also impact our users, advertisers, and partners usage of and satisfaction with Snapchat and could seriously harm our business and reputation if the level of service decreases. Hosting costs also have and will continue to increase as our user base and user engagement grows and may seriously harm our business if we are unable to grow our revenues faster than the cost of utilizing the services of Google Cloud, AWS, or similar providers. In addition, Google or Amazon may take actions beyond our control that could seriously harm our business, including: discontinuing or limiting our access to its cloud platform; increasing pricing terms; terminating or seeking to terminate our contractual relationship altogether; 17 Table of Contents establishing more favorable relationships or pricing terms with one or more of our competitors; or modifying or interpreting its terms of service or other policies in a manner that impacts our ability to run our business and operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be seriously harmed. If we need to license or acquire new intellectual property, we may incur substantial costs. We aim to protect our confidential proprietary information, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, and third parties who access or contribute to our proprietary know-how, information, or technology. We, however, cannot assure you that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, or preventing unauthorized distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering, or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret or know-how can be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome can be unpredictable. Furthermore, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing offerings that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We also rely on trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret, and domain-name protection laws to protect our proprietary rights. In the United States and internationally, we have filed various applications to protect aspects of our intellectual property, and we currently hold a number of issued patents, trademarks, and copyrights in multiple jurisdictions. In the future, we may acquire additional patents or patent portfolios in the future, which could require significant cash expenditures. However, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights, third parties may challenge proprietary rights held by us, third parties may design around our proprietary rights or independently develop competing technology, and pending and future trademark, copyright, and patent applications may not be approved. Moreover, we cannot ensure that the claims of any granted patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or platform and provide us with competitive advantages. Additionally, failure to comply with applicable procedural, documentary, fee payment, and other similar requirements could result in abandonment or lapse of the affected patent, trademark, or copyright application or registration. Moreover, a portion of our intellectual property has been acquired or licensed from one or more third parties. While we have conducted diligence with respect to such acquisitions and licenses, because we did not participate in the development or prosecution of much of the acquired intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that our diligence efforts identified and remedied all issues related to such intellectual property, including potential ownership errors, potential errors during prosecution of such intellectual property, and potential encumbrances that could limit our ability to enforce such intellectual property rights. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries do not provide the same level of protection of corporate proprietary information and assets such as intellectual property, trade secrets, know-how, and records as the laws of the United States. For instance, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection. As a result, we may be exposed to material risks of theft of our proprietary information and other intellectual property, including technical data, manufacturing processes, data sets, or other sensitive information, and we may also encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property or proprietary rights abroad. In any of these cases, we may be required to expend significant time and expense to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, and, if such defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits are successful, we could lose valuable intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of enhancements to our platform, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our platform, or harm our reputation and brand. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new platform features, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and would adversely affect our ability to compete. Although we have taken measures to protect our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not offer products, brands, content, or concepts that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Our two co-founders have control over all stockholder decisions because they control a substantial majority of our voting stock. Our two co-founders, Evan Spiegel and Robert Murphy, control over 99% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock as of December 31, 2024, and Mr. Spiegel alone can exercise voting control over a majority of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy, or in many instances Mr. Spiegel acting alone, have the ability to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election, removal, and replacement of our directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. If Mr. Spiegels or Mr. Murphys employment with us is terminated, they will continue to have the ability to exercise the same significant voting power and potentially control the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Either of our co-founders shares of Class C common stock will automatically convert into Class B common stock, on a one-to-one basis, nine months following his death or on the date on which the number of outstanding shares of Class C common stock held by such holder represents less than 30% of the Class C common stock held by such holder on the closing of our IPO, or 32,383,178 shares of Class C common stock. Should either of our co-founders Class C common stock be converted to Class B common stock, the remaining co-founder will be able to exercise voting control over our outstanding capital stock. Moreover, Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy have entered into a proxy agreement under which each has granted to the other a voting proxy with respect to all shares of our Class B common stock and Class C common stock that each may beneficially own from time to time or have voting control over. The proxy would become effective on either founders death or disability. Accordingly, on the death or incapacity of either Mr. Spiegel or Mr. Murphy, the other could individually control nearly all of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. In addition, in October 2016, we issued a dividend of one share of non-voting Class A common stock to all our equity holders, which will prolong our co-founders voting control because our co-founders are able to liquidate their holdings of non-voting Class A common stock without diminishing their voting control. Furthermore, in July 2022, our board of directors approved the future declaration and payment of a special dividend of one share of Class A common stock on each outstanding share of Snaps common stock, subject to certain triggering conditions, which triggering conditions were modified in connection with the effectiveness the settlement of a class action lawsuit in February 2024. In the future, our board of directors may, from time to time, decide to issue additional special or regular stock dividends in the form of Class A common stock, and if we do so our co-founders control could be further prolonged. This concentrated control could delay, defer, or prevent a change of control, merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets that our other stockholders support. Conversely, this concentrated control could allow our co-founders to consummate such a transaction that our other stockholders do not support. In addition, our co-founders may make long-term strategic investment decisions for the company and take risks that may not be successful and may seriously harm our business. As our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Spiegel has control over our day-to-day management and the implementation of major strategic investments of our company, subject to authorization and oversight by our board of directors. As board members and officers, Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy owe a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and must act in good faith in a manner they reasonably believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As stockholders, even controlling stockholders, Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy are entitled to vote their shares, and shares over which they have voting control, in their own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. We have not elected to take advantage of the controlled company exemption to the corporate governance rules for companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Macroeconomic uncertainties, including labor shortages and disruptions, supply chain disruptions, banking instability, inflation, and recession risks, have in the past and may continue to adversely impact our business. Global economic and business activities have in the past and may continue to face widespread macroeconomic uncertainties, including labor shortages and disruptions, supply chain disruptions, banking instability, tariffs, inflation, and recession risks, which may continue for an extended period, and some of which have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. As some of our advertisers experienced downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue, they halted or decreased or may halt, decrease, or continue to decrease, temporarily or permanently, their advertising spending or may focus their advertising spending more on other platforms, all of which may result in decreased advertising revenue. Labor shortages and disruptions, supply chain disruptions, banking instability, and inflation have in the past and may continue to cause logistical challenges, increased input costs, inventory constraints, and liquidity uncertainty for our advertisers, which in turn may also halt or decrease advertising spending and may make it difficult to forecast our 19 Table of Contents advertising revenue. Any decline in advertising revenue or the collectability of our receivables could seriously harm our business. As a result of macroeconomic uncertainties, our partners and community who provide content or services to us may experience delays or interruptions in their ability to create content or provide services, if they are able to do so at all. Members of our community may also alter their usage of our products and services, particularly relative to prior periods when travel restrictions were in place. A decrease in the amount or quality of content available on Snapchat, or an interruption in the services provided to us, could lead to a decline in user engagement, which could seriously harm our business. To the extent that macroeconomic uncertainties continue to impact our business, many of the other risks described in these risk factors may be exacerbated. Exposure to geo-political conflicts and events could put our employees and partners at substantial risk, interrupt our operations, increase costs, create additional regulatory burdens, and have significant negative macroeconomic effects, any of which could seriously harm our business. Significant geo-political conflicts and events have had, and will likely continue to have, a substantial effect on our business and operations. We have had, and will likely continue to have, team members and their families in impacted regions who face substantial personal risk, unprecedented disruption of their lives, and uncertainty as to the future. We have provided emergency assistance and support to these team members and their families, and we expect to continue this support in the future. In addition, we have offices, hardware, and other assets in impacted regions that may be at risk of destruction or theft. We have incurred, and will likely continue to incur, costs to support our team members and reorganize our operations to address these ongoing challenges. In addition, our management has spent significant time and attention on these and related events. The ongoing disruptions to our team members, our management, and our operations could seriously harm our business. Generally, during times of war and other major conflicts, we, the third parties on which we rely, and our partners are vulnerable to a heightened risk of cyberattacks, including retaliatory cyberattacks, that could seriously disrupt our business. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, attempted cyberattacks on our products, systems, and networks, which we believe are related to conflicts. We may also face retaliatory attacks by governments, entities, or individuals who do not agree with our public expressions with regards to any conflicts or support for team members. Any such attack could cause disruption to our platform, systems, and networks, result in security breaches or data loss, damage our brand, or reduce demand for our services or advertising products. In addition, we may face significant costs (including legal and litigation costs) to prevent, correct, or remediate any such breaches. We may also be forced to expend additional resources monitoring our platform for evidence of disinformation or misuse in connection with the ongoing conflict. Geo-political conflicts and events are inherently unpredictable, evolve quickly, and may have negative long-term impacts. On a macroeconomic level, geo-political conflicts may disrupt trade, intensify problems in the global supply chain, and contribute to inflationary pressures. All of these factors may negatively impact the demand for advertising as companies face limited product availability, restricted sales opportunities, and condensed margins. Any pause or reduction in advertising spending in connection with geo-political conflicts or events could negatively impact our revenue and harm our business. If we do not develop successful new products or improve existing ones, our business will suffer. We may also invest in new lines of business that could fail to attract or retain users or generate revenue. Our ability to engage, retain, and increase our user base and to increase our revenue will depend heavily on our ability to successfully create new products, both independently and together with third parties. We may introduce significant changes to, or discontinue, our existing products or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. These new products and updates may fail to increase the engagement of our users, advertisers, or partners, may subject us to increased regulatory requirements or scrutiny, and may even result in short-term or long-term decreases in such engagement by disrupting existing user, advertiser, or partner behavior or by introducing performance and quality issues. For example, in January 2023, we made changes to our advertising platform, which we believe will lay the foundation for future growth, but which have been disruptive to our customers and how some of them utilized our platform. The short- and long-term impact of any major change, or even a less significant change such as a refresh of the application or a feature change, is difficult to predict. Although we believe that these decisions will benefit the aggregate user experience and improve our 20 Table of Contents financial performance over the long term, we may experience disruptions or declines in our DAUs or user activity broadly or concentrated on certain portions of our application. Product innovation is inherently volatile, and if new or enhanced products fail to engage our users, advertisers, or partners, or if we fail to give our users meaningful reasons to return to our application, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, or other value to justify our investments, any of which may seriously harm our business in the short-term, long-term, or both. Because our products created new ways of communicating, they have often required users to learn new behaviors to use our products, or to use our products repeatedly to receive the most benefit. These new behaviors, such as swiping and tapping in the Snapchat application, are not always intuitive to users. This can create a lag in adoption of new products and new user additions related to new products. We believe this has not hindered our user growth or engagement, but that may be the result of a large portion of our user base being in a younger demographic and more willing to invest the time to learn to use our products most effectively. To the extent that future users, including those in older demographics, are less willing to invest the time to learn to use our products, and if we are unable to make our products easier to learn to use, our user growth or engagement could be affected, and our business could be harmed. We may also develop new products or initiatives that increase user engagement and costs without increasing revenue in the short- or long-term. In addition, we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, in new lines of business, new products, evolving the user experience, and other initiatives to increase our user base and user activity, and attempt to monetize the platform. For example, in 2022, we launched Snapchat+, a subscription product that gives subscribers access to exclusive, experimental, and pre-release features, and Snapchat for Web, a browser-based product that brings Snapchats signature capabilities to the web, in 2023, we launched My AI, an artificial intelligence powered chatbot, and in 2024, we began testing Simple Snapchat, a new and simplified version of our service. Such new lines of business, new products, evolving user experiences, and other initiatives may be costly, difficult to operate and monetize, increase regulatory scrutiny and product liability and litigation risk, and divert managements attention, and there is no guarantee that they will be positively received by our community, attract or retain users, generate sufficient revenue or operating margin, or provide positive returns on our investment. For example, Simple Snapchat offers several new features, such as reducing the number of tabs in the application and creating a unified content feed. Although we believe these changes will create an improved user experience, we are still testing and do not know how users or advertisers will adapt or respond to these changes, and whether these changes will ultimately improve our business. Any adverse response to these changes by users or advertisers could seriously harm our business. We frequently launch new products and the products that we launch may have technical issues that diminish the performance of our application, experience product failures, or become subject to product recalls. These performance issues or issues that we encounter in the future could impact our user engagement. In addition, new products or features that we launch may ultimately prove unsuccessful or no longer fit with our priorities, and may be eliminated in the future. Such eliminations may require us to reduce our workforce and incur significant expenses. In certain cases, new products that we develop may require regulatory approval prior to launch or may require us to comply with additional regulations or legislation, including laws that are rapidly changing. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such regulatory approval, and our efforts to comply with these laws and regulations could be costly and divert managements time and effort and may still not guarantee compliance. If we do not successfully develop new approaches to monetization or meet the expectations of our users or partners, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated or recover any associated development costs, and our business could be seriously harmed. Our business is highly competitive. We face significant competition that we anticipate will continue to intensify. If we are not able to maintain or improve our market share, our business could suffer. We face significant competition in almost every aspect of our business both domestically and internationally, especially because our products and services operate across a broad list of categories, including camera, visual messaging, content, and augmented reality. Our competitors range from smaller or newer companies to larger, more established companies such as Alphabet (including Google and YouTube), Apple, ByteDance (including TikTok), Kakao, LINE, Meta (including Facebook, Instagram, Threads, and WhatsApp), Naver (including Snow), Pinterest, Tencent, and X (formerly Twitter). Our competitors also include platforms that offer, or will offer, a variety of products, services, content, and online advertising offerings that compete or may compete with Snapchat features or offerings. For example, Instagram, a competing application owned by Meta, has incorporated many of our features, including a stories feature that largely mimics our Stories feature and may be directly competitive. Meta has introduced, and likely will continue to introduce, more private ephemeral products into its various platforms which mimic other aspects of Snapchats core use case. We also compete for users and their time, so we may lose users or their attention not only to companies that offer products and services that specifically compete with Snapchat features or offerings, but to companies with products or services that target or otherwise appeal to certain demographics, such as Discord or Roblox. Moreover, in emerging international markets, where mobile devices often lack large storage capabilities, we may compete with other applications for the limited 21 Table of Contents space available on a users mobile device. We also face competition from traditional and online media businesses for advertising budgets. We compete broadly with the products and services of Alphabet, Apple, ByteDance, Meta, Pinterest, and X (formerly Twitter), and with other, largely regional, social media platforms that have strong positions in particular countries. As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources and broader global recognition, and occupy stronger competitive positions in certain market segments, than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in market requirements better than we can, undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts or marketing campaigns, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. In addition, ongoing changes to privacy and data protection laws and mobile operating systems have made it more difficult for us to target and measure advertisements effectively, and advertisers may prioritize the solutions of larger, more established companies. As a result, our competitors may, and in some cases will, acquire and engage users or generate advertising or other revenue at the expense of our own efforts, which would negatively affect our business. Advertisers may use information that our users share through Snapchat to develop or work with competitors to develop products or features that compete with us. Certain competitors, including Alphabet, Apple, and Meta, could use strong or dominant positions in one or more market segments to gain competitive advantages against us in areas where we operate, including by: integrating competing social media platforms or features into products they control such as search engines, web browsers, artificial intelligence services, advertising networks, or mobile operating systems; making acquisitions for similar or complementary products or services; or impeding Snapchats accessibility and usability by modifying existing hardware and software on which the Snapchat application operates. Certain acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services, provide our competitors with valuable insight into the performance of our and our partners businesses, and provide our competitors with a pipeline of future acquisitions to maintain a dominant position. As a result, our competitors may acquire and engage users at the expense of our user base, growth, or engagement, which may seriously harm our business. We believe that our ability to compete effectively depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: the usefulness, novelty, performance, and reliability of our products compared to our competitors products; the number and demographics of our DAUs; the timing and market acceptance of our products, including developments and enhancements of our competitors products; our ability to monetize our products and services, including new products and services; the availability of our products to users; the effectiveness of our advertising and sales teams; the effectiveness of our advertising products; our ability to establish and maintain advertisers and partners interest in using Snapchat; the frequency, relative prominence, and type of advertisements displayed on our application or by our competitors; the effectiveness of our customer service and support efforts; the effectiveness of our marketing activities; actual or proposed legislation, regulation, executive actions, or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry segment; our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented team members, particularly engineers, designers, and sales personnel; 22 Table of Contents our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets; the security, or perceived security, of our products and data protection measures compared to our competitors products; our ability to cost-effectively manage and scale our operations; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. If we cannot effectively compete, our user engagement may decrease, which could make us less attractive to users, advertisers, and partners and seriously harm our business. We have incurred operating losses in the past, and may not be able to attain and sustain profitability. We began commercial operations in 2011 and we have historically experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $12.7 billion and for the year ended December 31, 2024, we had a net loss of $697.9 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. We may incur significant losses in the future for many reasons, including due to the other risks and uncertainties described in this report. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, operating delays, or other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our revenue does not grow at a greater rate than our expenses, our business may be seriously harmed and we may not be able to attain and sustain profitability. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could seriously harm our business. We depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy, the agreements are at-will, which means that they may resign or could be terminated for any reason at any time. Mr. Spiegel and Mr. Murphy are high profile individuals who have received threats in the past and are likely to continue to receive threats in the future. Mr. Spiegel, as Chief Executive Officer, has been responsible for our companys strategic vision and Mr. Murphy, as Chief Technology Officer, developed the Snapchat applications technical foundation. Should either of them stop working for us for any reason, it is unlikely that the other co-founder would be able to fulfill all of the responsibilities of the departing co-founder nor is it likely that we would be able to immediately find a suitable replacement. The loss of key personnel, including members of management and key engineering, product development, marketing, and sales personnel, could disrupt our operations, adversely impact employee retention and morale, and seriously harm our business. We cannot guarantee we will continue to attract and retain the personnel we need to maintain our competitive position. We face significant competition in hiring and attracting qualified engineers, designers, and sales personnel, and the change by companies to offer a remote or hybrid work environment may increase the competition for such employees from employers outside of our traditional office locations. In February 2023, we implemented our return to office plan that requires greater in-office attendance. While we intend to continue offering flexible work arrangements based on the different needs of teams across our company on a case-by-case basis, we may face difficulty in hiring and retaining our workforce as a result of this shift to have greater in-office attendance. Further, labor is subject to external factors that are beyond our control, including our industrys highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, inflation, other macroeconomic uncertainties, and workforce participation rates. In addition, if our reputation were to be harmed, whether as a result of our strategic decisions or media, legislative, or regulatory scrutiny or otherwise, it could make it more difficult to attract and retain personnel that are critical to the success of our business. Further, negative perception of our DEI strategy, whether due to our perceived over- or under-pursuit of such initiatives, may result in issues hiring or retaining employees, as well as potential litigation or other adverse impacts. As we continue to adapt and update our business model and priorities, or if our stock price declines, our equity awards may not be as effective an incentive to attract, retain, and motivate team members. Stock price declines may also cause us to offer additional equity awards to our existing team members to aid in retention. Furthermore, if we issue significant equity to attract and retain team members, we would incur substantial additional stock-based compensation expense and the ownership of our existing stockholders would be further diluted. If we do not succeed in attracting, hiring, and integrating excellent personnel, or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow or effectively manage our business and our business could be seriously harmed. 23 Table of Contents We have a continually evolving business model, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future financial results and increases the risk that we will not be successful. We began commercial operations in 2011, began meaningfully monetizing Snapchat in 2015, and we launched Snapchat+, a paid subscription product, in 2022. We have a continually evolving business model, which makes it difficult to effectively assess our future prospects. Accordingly, we believe that investors future perceptions and expectations, which can be idiosyncratic and vary widely, and which we do not control, will affect our stock price. For example, investors may believe our timing and path to increased monetization will be faster or more effective than our current plans or than actually takes place. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the many challenges we face, including the ones discussed in this report. If the security of our information technology systems or data is compromised or if our platform is subjected to cyber or other attacks that compromise user or partner accounts or frustrate or thwart our users, partners, or advertisers ability to access our products and services, our reputation and business could be seriously harmed. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, use, and share personal data and other sensitive information, including proprietary and confidential business data, trade secrets, third-party sensitive information, and intellectual property (collectively, sensitive information). Our efforts to protect our sensitive information, including information that our users, advertisers, and partners have shared with us, may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, including traditional black hat hackers, nation states, nation-state supported groups, organized criminal enterprises, hacktivists, and our personnel and contractors (through theft, misuse, or other risk). We and the third parties on which we rely are subject to a variety of evolving threats, including social-engineering attacks (for example by fraudulently inducing employees, users, or advertisers to disclose information to gain access to our sensitive information, including data or our users or advertisers data, such as through the use of deep fakes, which may be increasingly more difficult to identify as fake), malware, malicious code, hacking, credential stuffing, denial of service, and other threats, including attacks enhanced or facilitated by artificial intelligence. While certain of these threats have occurred in the past, they have become more prevalent and sophisticated in our industry, and may occur in the future. Because of our prominence and value of our sensitive information, we believe that we are an attractive target for these sorts of attacks. In particular, severe cyber extortion incidents, including ransomware attacks, are becoming increasingly prevalent. To alleviate the financial, operational, and reputational impact of these incidents, it may be preferable to make extortion payments, but we may be unwilling or unable to do so, including, for example, if applicable laws or regulations prohibit such payments. And, even if we make such payments, cyber threat actors may still disclose data, engage in further extortion, or otherwise harm our systems or data. Moreover, for certain employees we permit a hybrid work environment, which has increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as our employees utilize network connections, computers, and devices outside our premises or network, including working at home, while in transit and in public locations. In addition, cyber threat actors have also increased the complexity of their attempts to compromise user and advertiser accounts, despite our defenses and detection mechanisms designed to prevent these account takeovers. User credentials may be obtained on- or off-platform, including through breaches of third-party platforms and services, password stealing malware, social engineering, or other tactics and techniques like credential harvesting, and used to launch individual, group, or coordinated enterprise-wide attacks. Some of these attacks may be hard to detect, including if they are at scale, and may result in cyber threat actors using our service to spam or abuse other users, access personal data, further compromise additional accounts, or engage in fraudulent advertising. Some of these attacks could also compromise employee credentials or involve socially engineering employees into granting access to systems or otherwise enabling or assisting in the cyber threat actors goals. Because of our global and varied user base, we may also be the target of commercial exploits and other internal and external attack methodologies by commercial spyware vendors, nation states, or nation-state supported groups, which have targeted users and the data we process about them and sought to use insiders to obtain user or employee data at peer technology companies. We rely on third parties and technologies to operate critical business systems to process sensitive information in a variety of contexts, including cloud-based infrastructure, data center facilities, AI, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery, and other functions. We also rely on third parties to provide other products or services to operate our business or enable features in our platform. Additionally, some advertisers and partners store sensitive information that we share with them. Our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place despite their contractual representations to implement such measures and our third-party provider vetting process. If these third parties fail to implement adequate data security practices or fail to comply with our terms, policies, or contractual obligations, our 24 Table of Contents sensitive information may be compromised, and we may experience adverse consequences. And even if these third parties implement data security practices and comply with various obligations, their networks may still suffer a breach, which could compromise our sensitive information. We or our third-party providers may also experience failures or malfunctions of hardware or software, the loss of technology assets, or the loss of data that, while not caused by threat actors, may have a similar impact and risk to our business. While we may be entitled to damages if the third parties on whom we rely fail to satisfy their privacy or security-related obligations to us, or cause the loss of our data or prolonged downtime, any award may be insufficient to cover our damages, or we may be unable to recover such award. Moreover, our products and services, and the internal systems that support them and our business, rely on software, hardware, and other systems developed or maintained by our engineering teams and third parties (including open source software), and all of these have contained and will contain vulnerabilities, errors, bugs, or defects, which may or may not be detected by our teams or the respective third parties prior to our or their release, usage, or reliance on them. Supply chain attacks have also increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties in our supply chain have not been compromised or that their systems, networks, or code are free from exploitable vulnerabilities, errors, bugs, or defects. We take steps designed to detect and remediate vulnerabilities in our software, hardware, and information systems (including that of third parties upon which we rely), and we work with security researchers through our bug bounty program and our third party providers to help us identify vulnerabilities. We and our third party providers may not, however, detect, become aware of, and remediate all such vulnerabilities, or other bugs, errors, or defects, including on a timely basis, and there is no guarantee security researchers will disclose all vulnerabilities they become aware of or do so responsibly. Further, we and our third party providers may experience delays in developing or deploying remedial measures and patches designed to address identified vulnerabilities, bugs, errors, and defects. These could be exploited and result in a security or privacy incident, cause us to fail in our commitments to our users, advertisers, or partners, or cause a breach of or disruption of our platform, systems, networks, products, or services. While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against cyberattacks and other security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. If any of these or similar events occur, our or our third-party partners sensitive information and information technology systems could be accessed, acquired, modified, destroyed, lost, altered, encrypted, or disclosed in an unauthorized, unlawful, accidental, or other improper manner, resulting in a security incident or other interruption. It may be difficult and costly to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident. Our efforts to do so may not be successful. Actions taken by us or the third parties with whom we work to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate a security incident could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions of our business. Threat actors may also gain access to other networks and systems after a compromise of our networks and systems. We have and may continue to expend significant resources or modify our business activities to adopt additional measures designed to protect against cyberattacks and other security incidents. Certain data privacy and security obligations may require us to implement and maintain specific security measures or industry-standard or reasonable security measures to protect our systems and sensitive information. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, actual and attempted cyberattacks and other security incidents that impact the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of sensitive information, including as a result of insider threats, employee error, vendor breaches, and other causes. Any cyberattack or other security incident experienced by us or our third-party partners could damage our reputation and our brand, and diminish our competitive position. Applicable privacy and security obligations may require us, or we may choose, to notify relevant stakeholders, including affected individuals, customers, regulators, and investors, of security incidents, or take other actions. Such disclosures and related actions are costly and the failure to comply with applicable legal requirements could lead to adverse consequences. Governments and regulatory agencies (including the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC) have and may continue to enact new disclosure requirements for cybersecurity events. In addition, affected users or government authorities could initiate legal or regulatory action against us, including class-action claims, mass arbitration demands, investigations, penalties, and audits, which could be time-consuming and cause us to incur significant expense and liability or result in orders or consent decrees forcing us to modify our business practices. We could also experience loss of user or advertiser confidence in the security of our platform, additional reporting requirements or oversight, restrictions on processing sensitive information, claims by our partners or other relevant parties that we have failed to comply with contractual obligations or our policies, and indemnification obligations. We could also spend material resources to investigate or correct the incident and to prevent future incidents. Maintaining the trust of our users is important to sustain our growth, retention, and user engagement. Concerns over our privacy and security practices, whether actual or unfounded, could damage our reputation and brand and deter users, advertisers, and partners from using our products and services. Any of these occurrences could seriously harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. In addition to experiencing a security incident, third parties may gather, collect, or infer sensitive information about us from public sources, data brokers, or other means that reveals competitively sensitive details about our organization and could be used to undermine our competitive advantage or market position. Our user metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may seriously harm and negatively affect our reputation and our business. We regularly review and share metrics, including our DAUs and ARPU metrics, with our investors, advertisers, and partners to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data gathered on an analytics platform that we developed and operate and our methodologies have not in all instances been validated by an independent third party. In addition, we may change the way we measure and report metrics from time to time in connection with changes to our products, making comparisons to prior periods more difficult. While these metrics are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our products are used across large populations globally that may require significant judgment and are subject to technical errors. For example, there may be individuals who attempt to create accounts for malicious purposes, including at scale, even though we forbid that in our Terms of Service and Community Guidelines. We implement measures in our user registration process and through other technical measures to prevent, detect, and suppress that behavior, although we have not determined the number of such accounts, or the effectiveness of such measures. Our user metrics are also affected by technology on certain mobile devices that automatically runs in the background of our Snapchat application when another phone function is used, and this activity can cause our system to miscount the user metrics associated with such account. Some of our demographic data may be incomplete or inaccurate. For example, because users self-report their dates of birth, our age-demographic data may differ from our users actual ages. And because users who signed up for Snapchat before June 2013 were not asked to supply their date of birth, we may exclude those users from age demographics or estimate their ages based on a sample of the self-reported ages we do have. If our users provide us with incorrect or incomplete information regarding their age or other attributes, then our estimates may prove inaccurate and fail to meet investor or advertiser expectations. In addition, our estimates for revenue by user location may also be affected by data limitations and other challenges in measuring user locations. Our data regarding the geographic location of our users is estimated based on a number of factors, such as the users IP address. If a user utilizes a proxy server or if there are other data limitations, we may not be able to accurately reflect the users actual location. Errors or inaccuracies in our metrics or data could also result in incorrect business decisions and inefficiencies. For instance, if a significant understatement or overstatement of active users were to occur, we may expend resources to implement unnecessary business measures or fail to take required actions to attract a sufficient number of users to satisfy our growth strategies. We count a DAU when a user visits Snapchat through our applications or websites, and only once per user per day. We have multiple pipelines of user data that we use to determine whether a user has visited Snapchat through our applications or websites during a particular day. This provides redundancy in the event one pipeline of data were to become unavailable for technical reasons, and also gives us redundant data to help measure how users interact with our application. However, we believe that we do not capture all data regarding our active users, which has in the past and may in the future result in understated metrics. This generally occurs because of technical issues, for instance when our systems do not record data from a users application or when a user opens the Snapchat application and contacts our servers but is not recorded as an active user. We continually seek to address these technical issues and improve our measurement processes and accuracy, such as comparing our active users and other metrics with data received from other pipelines, including data recorded by our servers and systems. But given the complexity of the systems involved and the rapidly changing nature of mobile devices and systems, we expect these issues to continue, particularly if we continue to expand in parts of the world where mobile data systems and connections are less stable. If we fail to maintain an effective analytics platform, our metrics calculations may be inaccurate. We regularly review, have adjusted in the past, and are likely to adjust in the future our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. As a result of such adjustments, our DAUs or other metrics may not be comparable to those in prior periods. Our measures of DAU and other metrics may also differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology, data used, data limitations, or other challenges in measuring large online and mobile 26 Table of Contents populations. If advertisers, partners, or investors do not perceive our user, geographic, other demographic metrics, or measurements of advertising effectiveness to be accurate, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation may be seriously harmed. Our advertisers and partners may also be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to Snapchat, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we calculate average DAUs for a particular quarter by adding the number of DAUs on each day of that quarter and dividing that sum by the number of days in that quarter. This calculation may mask any individual days or months within the quarter that are significantly higher or lower than the quarterly average. Improper or illegal use of Snapchat could seriously harm our business and reputation. We cannot be certain that the technologies that we have developed to repel spamming attacks will be able to eliminate all spam messages from our products. Spammers attempt to use our products to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may embarrass, offend, threaten, or annoy users and make our products less user friendly. Our actions to combat spam may also divert significant time and focus from improving our products. As a result of spamming activities, our users may use our products less or stop using them altogether, and result in continuing operational cost to us. Similarly, terrorists, criminals, and other bad actors may use our products to promote their goals and encourage users to engage in terror and other illegal activities discussed in our Transparency Report. We expect that as more people use our products, these bad actors will increasingly seek to misuse our products. Although we invest resources to combat these activities, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe are violating our Terms of Service and Community Guidelines, we expect these bad actors will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately and illegally on Snapchat. Maintaining a safe platform, including by combating these bad actors, requires us to incur costs, which may be significant. In addition, we may not be able to control or stop Snapchat from becoming the preferred application of use by these bad actors, which may seriously harm our reputation or lead to lawsuits or attention from regulators. If these activities continue on Snapchat, our reputation, user growth and user engagement, and operational cost structure could be seriously harmed. Because we store, process, and use data, some of which contains personal data, we are subject to complex and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, executive actions, rules, contractual obligations, policies, and other obligations regarding privacy, data protection, content regulation, and other matters. Many of these obligations are subject to change and to uncertain interpretation, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could result in investigations, claims (including class actions), mass arbitration demands, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, and declines in user growth, retention, or engagement, or other adverse consequences, any of which could seriously harm our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, use, and share personal data and other sensitive information, including proprietary and confidential business data, trade secrets, third-party sensitive information, and intellectual property. Accordingly, we are subject to a variety of laws, regulations, industry standards, policies, contractual requirements, executive actions, and other obligations relating to privacy, security, and data protection. We also are and may in the future be subject to many federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to privacy, rights of publicity, content, data protection, AI, intellectual property, health and safety, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, employment, money transmission, import and export restrictions, gift cards, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, advertising, algorithms, encryption, and taxation. Under certain of these laws, we could face temporary or definitive bans on data processing and other corrective actions, substantial monetary fines, or private litigation related to processing of personal data brought by classes of data subjects or consumer protection organizations authorized to represent their interests. The transfer of personal data continues to be under increased regulatory attention and scrutiny, and certain jurisdictions in which we operate have significantly limited the lawful basis on which personal data can be transferred to other jurisdictions and increased the assessments required to do so. We have attempted to structure our operations, and the cross-border transfer mechanisms we rely on, in a manner designed to help us partially avoid some of these concerns. Some of these mechanisms are, or may in the future be, subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these mechanisms to lawfully transfer personal data in the future. If there is no lawful manner for us to transfer personal data, or if the requirements for a legally compliant transfer are too onerous, we could face significant adverse consequences, including the interruption or degradation of our operations, the need to relocate part of or all of our business or data processing activities to other jurisdictions at significant expense, increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines and penalties, the inability to transfer data and work with partners, vendors, and other third parties, and injunctions against our processing or transferring 27 Table of Contents of personal data necessary to operate our business. Regulators may seek to restrict our data processing activities if they believe we have violated cross-border data transfer limitations, which would seriously harm our business. Additionally, companies like us that transfer personal data between jurisdictions, particularly to the United States, are subject to increased scrutiny from regulators, individual litigants, and activist groups. Legislation in certain of the countries in which we operate has imposed extensive obligations, and potential monetary fines, on entities like us that are categorized in various contexts as online service providers (including, as the case may be, social media platforms, electronic communications providers, or other similar categorizations) who enable the sharing of usergenerated content, to identify, mitigate, and manage the risks of harm to users from illegal and harmful content, such as terrorism, child sexual exploitation and abuse, and harassment or stalking. In addition, the privacy of teens personal data collected online, and use of commercial websites, applications, online services, or other interactive platforms, generally, are also becoming increasingly scrutinized. Regulations focused on online safety and protection of teens privacy online have and may in the future require us to change our services and incur costs to do so. Moreover, various laws to restrict or govern the use of commercial websites, applications, online services, or other interactive platforms by teens have passed or have been proposed, including laws prohibiting certain teen age groups from accessing social media, restricting advertising to teens, requiring age verification, requiring default teen safeguards, requiring warning labels, limiting the use of minors personal data, and requiring parental consent or providing for other parental controls or rights. These laws may be, or in some cases already have been, subject to legal challenges and changing interpretations, which may further complicate our efforts to comply with laws applicable to us. These new laws may result in restrictions on the use of certain of our products or services by teens, the inability to offer certain products and services to teens, decrease DAUs or user engagement in those jurisdictions, require changes to our products and services to achieve compliance, decrease our advertising and subscription revenue, and increase legal risk and compliance costs for us and our third-party partners, any of which could seriously harm our business. Laws and regulations focused on privacy, security, and data protection, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, consumer protection laws, wiretapping laws, invasion of privacy laws, and other similar laws have imposed obligations on companies that collect personal data from users, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices, expanding the requirements for handling personal data, requiring consents to process personal data in certain circumstances, and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. Such rights include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making. The exercise of these rights impact our business and ability to provide our products and services, and our inability or failure to obtain consent or otherwise identify a lawful basis for data processing that is acceptable to a regulator, where required, could result in adverse consequences, including class-action litigation, regulatory enforcement, and mass arbitration demands. Certain of these laws also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These laws also allow for statutory fines for noncompliance and, in some instances, provide for civil penalties for violations and a private right of action for data breaches, which may increase the likelihood and cost of data breach litigation, and could seriously harm our business. Additionally, several jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted statutes banning or restricting the collection of biometric information. Certain of these laws provide for substantial penalties and statutory damages and have generated significant class-action activity. Although we maintain the position that our technologies do not collect any biometric information, we have in the past, and may in the future, settle these disputes to avoid potentially costly litigation and have in certain instances made changes to our products in an abundance of caution. Privacy advocates and industry groups have proposed, and may propose in the future, standards with which we are legally or contractually obligated to comply. Moreover, we are also bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. We also publish privacy policies, marketing materials, and other statements regarding data privacy and security, including statements relied on by our users, advertisers, and business partners. If these policies, materials, or statements are found to be deficient, lacking in transparency, deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our practices, we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators, or other adverse consequences, including class-action litigation or mass arbitration demands. The implementation and enforcement, including through private rights of action, of these increasingly complex, onerous, or divergent laws and regulations, and the introduction, interpretation, or revision of any new such laws or regulations, with respect to privacy, security, data protection, and our industry are uncertain and may further complicate compliance efforts, lead to fragmentation of the service, increase legal risk and compliance costs for us and our third-party partners, or decrease the perceived usefulness of our service to our users and advertisers. For example, some federal 28 Table of Contents privacy laws are currently being challenged, and litigation in this space could impact the privacy rights of our community, including modifying the ability of third parties (such as government agencies and civil litigants) to obtain private communications between users, which in turn may negatively impact users experience, trust, and satisfaction and decrease their engagement with our products. Many of these obligations are becoming increasingly stringent and subject to rapid change and uncertain interpretation. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires us to devote significant resources, and there is no guarantee that our compliance efforts to date, or in the future, will be deemed compliant or sufficient. These obligations may necessitate changes to our products and services, information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf. In addition, these obligations may require us to change our business model. Our business model materially depends on our ability to process personal data in connection with our advertising offerings, so we are particularly exposed to the risks associated with the rapidly changing legal landscape regarding privacy, security, and data protection. For example, privacy regulators have targeted us and some of our competitors, including by investigating data processing activities and in the past have issued large fines to our competitors. Such enforcement actions may cause us to revise our business plans and operations. Moreover, we believe a number of investigations into other technology companies are currently being conducted by federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies. We therefore are at heightened risk of regulatory scrutiny, as regulators focus their attention on data processing activities of companies like us, and any changes in the regulatory framework or enforcement actions, whether against us or our competitors, could require us to fundamentally change our business model, and seriously harm our business. We may at times fail, or be perceived to have failed, in our efforts to comply with our privacy, security, and data protection obligations. Moreover, despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties on whom we rely may fail to comply with such obligations, which could negatively impact our business operations. If we or the third parties on which we rely fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with applicable privacy, security, or data protection obligations, we could face significant consequences, including government enforcement actions (such as investigations, claims, audits, and penalties), litigation (including class-action litigation) and mass arbitration demands, additional reporting requirements or oversight, bans on processing personal data, negative publicity, and orders to destroy or not use or transfer personal data. Certain regulators may prohibit our use of certain personal data as a result of enforcement actions or similar proceedings. Plaintiffs have become increasingly more active in bringing privacy-related claims against companies, including class claims and mass arbitration demands. Some of these claims allow for the recovery of statutory damages on a per violation basis, and, if viable, carry the potential for monumental statutory damages, depending on the volume of data and the number of violations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, including loss of users and advertisers, inability to process personal data or operate in certain jurisdictions, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, and declines in user growth, retention, or engagement, any of which could seriously harm our business. We have in the past been subject to enforcement actions, investigations, proceedings, orders, or various government inquiries regarding our data privacy and security practices and processing. For example, in December 2014, the FTC resolved an investigation into some of our early practices by issuing a final order. That order requires, among other things, that we establish a robust privacy program to govern how we treat user data. During the 20-year term of the order, we must complete biennial independent privacy audits. The FTC has continued to review our practices and in January 2025, announced the referral of a complaint to the DOJ pertaining to our deployment of our My AI feature and the allegedly resulting risk of harm to young users. While we believe we have meritorious defenses to any legal proceedings that may arise out of this complaint, we will continue to cooperate with regulatory authorities. Any enforcement action related to this matter, or any violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could seriously harm our business. We use AI, including generative AI, in consumer-facing features of our products and services and in the operation of our business, which may result in legal liability and privacy and security risks which may adversely impact our business. We use AI, including generative AI, in consumer-facing features of our products and services, such as My AI, and in the operation of our business. The development, deployment, training, use, safety, and personal data processing of AI presents various AI, privacy, and security risks that impact our business. AI development, deployment, training, use, safety, and personal data processing is subject to new and evolving privacy and data security laws, as well as increasing AI laws and review by various governmental and regulatory agencies. We are, have been, and could in the future be subject to regulatory inquiries relating to the use and operation of AI. While such regulatory inquiries have not adversely impacted our business to date, given the current unsettled nature of the legal and regulatory environment surrounding AI, our or our partners AI development, deployment, training, use, safety, and personal data processing of AI could subject us to further regulatory inquiries or actions, which could result in product 29 Table of Contents restrictions, fines and penalties, equitable remedies such as requirements to retrain or disgorge our AI, as well as litigation and reputational harm, any of which could seriously harm our business and require us to expend significant resources. Such consequences, if imposed, may also make it harder for us to use AI in our product and services, or internally in our business operations, which could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, certain enacted and proposed regulations related to AI could impose onerous obligations on our business, products, and services, including restrictions on or transparency obligations with respect to the training and use of AI-related systems, and obligations relating to labeling and provenance of AI-generated content. If applicable, such obligations may require us to change our products or business practices in order to comply. Additionally, if our AI products fail to perform as intended, or produce outputs that are harmful, misleading, inaccurate, or biased, in addition to the risks above, our business may be harmed. Our financial condition and results of operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. Additionally, we have a limited operating history with the current scale of our business, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results. As a result, you should not rely on our past quarterly results of operations as indicators of future performance. You should take into account the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving market segments. Our financial condition and results of operations in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to maintain and grow our user base and user engagement; the development and introduction of new or redesigned products or services by us or our competitors; the ability of our cloud service providers to scale effectively and timely provide the necessary technical infrastructure to offer our service; our ability to attract and retain advertisers in a particular period; seasonal or other fluctuations in spending by our advertisers and product usage by our users, each of which may change as our product offerings evolve or as our business grows or as a result of unpredictable events such as labor shortages and disruptions, supply chain disruptions, banking instability, inflationary pressures, or geo-political conflicts; restructuring or other charges and unexpected costs or other operating expenses; the number of advertisements shown to users; the pricing of our advertisements and other products; the effectiveness, and our ability to demonstrate to advertisers the effectiveness, of our advertisements; the diversification and growth of revenue sources beyond current advertising; increases in marketing, sales, research and development, and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; our ability to maintain operating margins, cash provided by operating activities, and Free Cash Flow; our ability to accurately forecast consumer demand for our physical products and adequately manage inventory; system failures or security incidents, and the costs associated with such incidents and remediations; inaccessibility of Snapchat, or certain features within Snapchat, due to third-party or governmental actions; stock-based compensation expense; our ability to effectively incentivize our workforce; adverse litigation judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs, or product recalls; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to privacy, rights of publicity, content, data protection, intellectual property, communication, health and safety, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, employment, money transmission, import and export restrictions, gift cards, electronic funds transfers, anti-money laundering, advertising, algorithms, encryption, and taxation, enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders, sanctions, tariffs, or consent decrees, or the issuance of executive orders or other similar executive actions that may adversely affect our revenues or restrict our business; 30 Table of Contents new privacy, data protection, and security laws and other obligations and increased regulatory scrutiny on our or our competitors data processing activities and privacy and information security practices, including through enforcement actions potentially resulting in large penalties or other severe sanctions and increased restrictions on the data processing activities and personal data transfers critical to the operation of our current business model; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and interest rates or impairments of any assets on our consolidated balance sheet; changes in our effective tax rate; announcements by competitors of significant new products, licenses, or acquisitions; our ability to make accurate accounting estimates and appropriately recognize revenue for our products; our ability to meet minimum spending commitments in agreements with our infrastructure providers; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; the effect of war or other armed conflict on our workforce, operations, or the global economy; and changes in domestic and global business or macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of inflationary pressures, banking instability, geo-political conflicts, tariffs, terrorism, or responses to these events. If we are unable to continue to maintain or successfully grow our user base and further monetize our products, our business will suffer. We have made, and are continuing to make, investments to enable users, partners, and advertisers to create compelling content and deliver advertising to our users. Existing and prospective Snapchat users and advertisers may not be successful in creating content that leads to and maintains user engagement. We are continuously seeking to balance the objectives of our users and advertisers with our desire to provide an optimal user experience. We do not seek to monetize all of our products nor do we solely focus our efforts on users with higher ARPU, and we may not be successful in achieving a balance that continues to attract and retain users and advertisers. We focus on growing engagement across our service, and from time to time our efforts may reduce user activity with certain monetizable products in favor of other products we do not currently monetize. If we are not successful in our efforts to grow or effectively and timely monetize our user base, or if we are unable to build and maintain good relations with our advertisers, our user growth and user engagement and our business may be seriously harmed. In addition, we may expend significant resources to launch new products that we are unable to monetize, which may seriously harm our business. Additionally, we may not succeed in further monetizing Snapchat. We currently primarily monetize Snapchat by displaying advertisements sold by us and our partners. As a result, our financial performance and ability to grow revenue could be seriously harmed if: we fail to increase or maintain DAUs, especially in regions where we have higher monetization; our user growth outpaces our ability to monetize our users, including if we dont attract sufficient advertisers or if our user growth occurs in markets that are not as monetizable; we fail to increase or maintain the amount of time spent on Snapchat, the amount of content that our users share, or the usage of our Camera, Visual Messaging, Map, Stories, and Spotlight platforms; partners and users do not create sufficient engaging content for users or partners do not renew their agreements with us; we fail to attract sufficient advertisers to utilize our self-serve platform to make the best use of our advertising inventory; advertisers do not continue to introduce engaging advertisements; advertisers reduce their advertising on Snapchat; we fail to maintain good relationships with advertisers or attract new advertisers, or demonstrate to advertisers the effectiveness of advertising on Snapchat; the content on Snapchat does not maintain or gain popularity; or 31 Table of Contents we fail to attract prospective subscribers to Snapchat+, retain existing subscribers, or effectively continue to monetize Snapchat+. We cannot assure you that we will effectively manage our growth or changes to our business. The growth and expansion of our business, headcount, and products create significant challenges for our management, including managing multiple relationships with users, advertisers, partners, and other third parties, and constrain operational and financial resources. If our operations or the number of third-party relationships continues to grow, our information-technology systems and our internal