ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a North American mountain resort and adventure company, delivering distinctive vacation and travel experiences to our customers for over three decades. We own interests in seven four-season mountain resorts with more than 11,000 skiable acres and over 1,140 acres of land available for real estate development. Our mountain resorts are geographically diversified across North Americas major ski regions, including the Eastern United States, the Rocky Mountains, Canada, and the Pacific Southwest. Our mountain resorts are located within an average of approximately 160 miles of major metropolitan markets with high concentrations of affluent skiers and several major national airports including: New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, Montreal and Toronto. We also operate an adventure travel business, which includes Canadian Mountain Holidays (CMH), the leading heli-skiing adventure company in North America. CMH provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering and hiking over approximately 3.1 million acres. Additionally, we operate a comprehensive real estate business through which we manage, market and sell vacation club properties, manage condominium hotel properties, and sell and market residential real estate. Our three reportable segments are as follows: Mountain : Our Mountain segment includes our mountain resort and lodging operations at Steamboat Ski & Resort (Steamboat), Winter Park Resort (Winter Park), Stratton Mountain Resort (Stratton), Snowshoe Mountain Resort (Snowshoe) and Mont Tremblant Resort (Tremblant), as well as our 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain Ski Resort (Blue Mountain) prior to our acquisition of the remaining 50.0% that we did not already own on September 19, 2014 ("Blue Mountain Acquisition"). Adventure: Our Adventure segment is comprised of CMH, which provides heli-skiing, mountaineering, and hiking in British Columbia, and our ancillary businesses that support CMH and provide commercial aviation services, such as firefighting, leasing and helicopter maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO") services to third parties. Real Estate : Our Real Estate segment includes our real estate management, marketing and sales businesses, as well as our real estate development activities. The Real Estate segment includes Intrawest Resort Club Group (IRCG), our vacation club business, Intrawest Hospitality Management, LLC ("IHM"), which manages condominium hotel properties and Playground, our residential real estate sales and marketing business, as well as our 50.0% interest in Mammoth Hospitality Management, LLC and 57.1% interest in Chateau M.T., Inc. In addition to our reportable segments, our consolidated financial results reflect items related to our legacy real estate development and sales activities and non-core assets and operations (referred to herein as Legacy, non-core and other). 21 Table of Contents Recent Transactions Blue Mountain Acquisition On September 19, 2014, we acquired the remaining 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain that we did not already own from Blue Mountain Resorts Holdings Inc. ("Blue Mountain Holdings") for a purchase price of CAD $61.4 million, or approximately $54.8 million USD, in a privately negotiated transaction. In connection with the Blue Mountain Acquisition, the shareholders agreement between us and Blue Mountain Holdings was terminated. The purchase price, along with fees and expenses incurred in connection with the transaction, were financed through an incremental term loan pursuant to the our credit agreement dated as of December 9, 2013 (the "Credit Agreement") and existing cash. The incremental term loan has the same economic and other terms as the original term facility under the Credit Agreement. Factors Affecting our Business Economic Conditions Our results of operations are affected by consumer discretionary spending. Numerous economic trends support the notion that the health of the general economy has improved in recent periods. We believe that if the economy continues to improve, consumers will have more disposable income and a greater inclination to engage in and spend money on leisure activities, which will positively impact our results of operations. Snowfall and Weather The timing and amount of snowfall and other weather conditions can have an impact on visitation and the financial results in our Mountain and Adventure segments. Our resorts are geographically diversified and have strong snowmaking capabilities, which help to partially mitigate the impact of localized snow conditions and weather. In addition, our increasing percentage of revenue derived from season pass and frequency products sold prior to the ski season helps to insulate us from variations in snowfall and weather conditions. Prolonged periods of severe weather at our resorts and heli-skiing tenures can force us to cancel or suspend operations which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Weather may also have an effect on our summer fire suppression activities and flight hours. For example, fire suppression activities were unusually high during the summer of 2012, which was marked by severe drought conditions in the Western United States. Season Pass and Frequency Product Usage Season pass products offer unlimited access to lifts at our resorts, subject to certain exceptions and restrictions, for a fixed upfront payment. Frequency products are valid for a specific period of time or number of visits, providing our customers with flexibility to ski on multiple dates for a fixed price. The number of visits from season pass and frequency product holders is influenced by sales volume and usage levels. In recent ski seasons, season pass and frequency product sales have been increasing, while usage levels vary from one ski season to the next due primarily to changes in weather, snowfall and skiing conditions. A greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders puts downward pressure on the effective ticket price (ETP) since these passholders are skiing for a fixed upfront payment, regardless of the number of times they visit. This downward pressure on ETP is more pronounced in ski seasons with higher snowfall, as season pass holders increase their usage. Similarly, a greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders puts downward pressure on Mountain Segment Revenue Per Visit as season pass and frequency product holders are less likely to purchase certain ancillary products and services relative to non-season pass and frequency product holders. We expect the volume and pricing of season pass and frequency product sales to continue to increase in future ski seasons; however, ETP and Mountain Segment Revenue Per Visit in any given ski season may increase or decrease as a result of the mix of visitors and pass products. 22 Table of Contents Seasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our business is seasonal in nature. Although each of our mountain resorts operates as a four-season resort, based upon historical results, we generate the highest revenue between our second and third fiscal quarters, which includes the peak ski season. Similarly, CMH generates the majority of its revenue during the same periods, our second and third fiscal quarters, as this is also the peak heli-skiing season. As a result of the seasonality of our business, our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, during our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Years and Presidents Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or less peak periods, holidays and weekends in our second fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our third fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations. The following table contains selected unaudited statements of operations information for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and each of the quarters in the year ended June 30, 2014 (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 June 30, 2014 March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 September 30, 2013 Mountain revenue $ 36,313 $ 26,518 $ 215,452 $ 75,991 $ 33,305 Adventure revenue 22,614 17,994 51,372 11,537 22,617 Real Estate revenue 15,071 12,482 18,876 13,922 13,250 Total reportable segment revenue $ 73,998 $ 56,994 $ 285,700 $ 101,450 $ 69,172 Resort Real Estate Markets We currently intend to resume development of residential vacation homes at our mountain resorts when market conditions are favorable. The value and sales volume of vacation homes fluctuate with macro-economic trends and consumer sentiment. Macroeconomic conditions have improved in recent periods, which has supported a partial recovery in the market for vacation homes in the United States and Canada. However, despite these trends, the median vacation home price and number of vacation homes sold in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 still remain well below the peak, suggesting ample room for continued growth. Potential for Volatility in Ancillary Services within our Adventure Segment Historically, a significant share of the ancillary firefighting services in our Adventure segment was performed under medium term contracts with the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") of between one and three years, which generated fixed revenue for committed aircraft and crew availability, plus incremental revenue based on flight hours. In fiscal year 2014, several of these contracts expired. As a result, going forward a higher proportion of our ancillary flight service revenue will be from as needed contracts that enable us to bid for spot flying and other short-term assignments. Revenue from these arrangements is almost entirely based on flight hours and is therefore less consistent than USFS committed contracts. Accordingly, our ability to generate ancillary revenue will be increasingly dependent on higher forest fire levels and our ability to opportunistically deploy our helicopters in other industries and/or lines of business during the off season. Increased General and Administrative Costs as a Public Company As a result of consummating our initial public offering ("IPO") on February 5, 2014, we started incurring incremental costs associated with operating as a growth-oriented publicly traded company. We expect the full magnitude of these incremental costs, which include higher compliance costs, Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reporting costs, stock exchange and transfer agent fees, increased costs for directors and officers insurance, board compensation and expenses, software and systems upgrades and other costs, will be fully reflected in our fiscal 2015 results and in subsequent fiscal years. Our general and administrative costs, including incremental public company costs, are generally allocated to our segments, which will put downward pressure on segment results in fiscal year 2015 and beyond. 23 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Fluctuation Risk We present our financial statements in United States dollars. Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses are transacted in Canadian dollars, principally at Tremblant, Blue Mountain and within our Adventure segment. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into United States dollars. See "