ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and (2) our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 29, 2023. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is included in the section titled Key Business Metrics. This non-GAAP financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our supplemental non-GAAP information and the GAAP-to-non-GAAP reconciliation included in the section titled Key Business MetricsFree Cash Flow, to more fully understand our business. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to Snowflake, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to Snowflake Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We believe in a data connected world where organizations have seamless access to explore, share, and unlock the value of data. To realize this vision, we deliver the Data Cloud, a network where Snowflake customers, partners, developers, data providers, and data consumers can break down data silos and derive value from rapidly growing data sets in secure, governed, and compliant ways. Our platform is the innovative technology that powers the Data Cloud, enabling customers to consolidate data into a single source of truth to drive meaningful business insights, build data applications, and share data and data products. We provide our platform through a customer-centric, consumption-based business model, only charging customers for the resources they use. Our cloud-native architecture consists of three independently scalable but logically integrated layers across compute, storage, and cloud services. The compute layer provides dedicated resources to enable users to simultaneously access common data sets for many use cases with minimal latency. The storage layer ingests massive amounts and varieties of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data to create a unified data record. The cloud services layer intelligently optimizes each use cases performance requirements with no administration. This architecture is built on three major public clouds across 40 regional deployments around the world. These deployments are generally interconnected to deliver the Data Cloud, enabling a consistent, global user experience. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from fees charged to our customers based on the compute, storage, and data transfer resources consumed on our platform as a single, integrated offering. For compute resources, consumption fees are based on the type of compute resource used and the duration of use or, for some features, the volume of data processed. For storage resources, consumption fees are based on the average terabytes per month of all of the customers data stored in our platform. For data transfer resources, consumption fees are based on terabytes of data transferred, the public cloud provider used, and the region to and from which the transfer is executed. 33 Table of Contents Our customers typically enter into capacity arrangements with a term of one to four years, or consume our platform under on-demand arrangements in which we charge for use of our platform monthly in arrears. Consumption for most customers accelerates from the beginning of their usage to the end of their contract terms and often exceeds their initial capacity commitment amounts. When this occurs, our customers have the option to amend their existing agreement with us to purchase additional capacity or request early renewals. When a customers consumption during the contract term does not exceed its capacity commitment amount, it may have the option to roll over any unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity. For these reasons, we believe our deferred revenue is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue that will be recognized in any given time period. Our go-to-market strategy is focused on acquiring new customers and driving continued use of our platform for existing customers. We primarily focus our selling efforts on large organizations and primarily sell our platform through a direct sales force, which targets technical and business leaders who are adopting a cloud strategy and leveraging data to improve their business performance. Our sales force is comprised of sales development, inside sales, and field sales personnel and is segmented by the industry, size, and region of prospective customers. Once our platform has been adopted, we focus on increasing the migration of additional customer workloads to our platform to drive increased consumption, as evidenced by our net revenue retention rate of 151% and 158% as of April 30, 2023 and January 31, 2023, respectively. See the section titled Key Business Metrics for a definition of net revenue retention rate. Our platform is used globally by organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries. As of April 30, 2023, we had 8,167 total customers, increasing from 7,850 customers as of January 31, 2023. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our total customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Our platform has been adopted by many of the worlds largest organizations that view Snowflake as a key strategic partner in their cloud and data transformation initiatives. As of April 30, 2023, our customers included 590 of the Forbes Global 2000, based on the 2022 Forbes Global 2000 list, and those customers contributed approximately 41% of our revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2023. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is subject to adjustments for annual updates to the Global 2000 list by Forbes, as well as acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity with respect to such customers, and we present our Forbes Global 2000 customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions Our business and financial condition have been, and may continue to be, impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions, including higher inflation, higher interest rates, and fluctuations or volatility in capital markets or foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions are causing customers to rationalize budgets, prioritize cash flow management, including through shortened contract duration, and optimize consumption, including by reducing storage through shorter data retention policies. We are continuing to monitor the actual and potential effects of general macroeconomic conditions across our business. For additional details, see the section titled Risk Factors. Stock Repurchase Program In February 2023, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. The program is funded using our working capital and will expire in March 2025. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, we repurchased approximately 1.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $191.7 million, including transaction costs, at a weighted-average price of $136.39 per share. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. As of April 30, 2023, $1.8 billion remained available for future share repurchases under the stock repurchase program. See Note 11, Equity, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional details. 34 Table of Contents Business Combinations On February 10, 2023, we acquired (i) all outstanding stock of Mountain US Corporation (formerly known as Mobilize.Net Corporation) (Mountain), a privately-held company which provides a premier suite of tools for efficiently migrating databases to the Data Cloud, for $76.3 million in cash, and (ii) all outstanding stock of LeapYear Technologies, Inc. (LeapYear), a privately-held company which provides a differential privacy platform, for $62.0 million in cash. The results of operations of these business combinations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. See Note 7, Business Combinations, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for details regarding these business combinations. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Adoption of our Platform and Expansion of the Data Cloud Our future success depends in large part on the market adoption of our platform, including new product functionality such as Snowpark. While we see growing demand for our platform, particularly from large enterprises, many of these organizations have invested substantial technical, financial, and personnel resources in their legacy database products or big data offerings, despite their inherent limitations. In addition, due to adverse macroeconomic conditions, many customers are attempting to rationalize budgets, prioritize cash flow management, and optimize consumption. While this makes it difficult to predict customer adoption rates and future demand, we believe that the benefits of our platform put us in a strong position to capture the significant market opportunity ahead. Our platform powers the Data Cloud, a network of data providers, data consumers, and data application developers that enables our customers to securely share, monetize, and acquire live data sets and data products. The Data Cloud includes access to Snowflake Marketplace, through which customers can access or acquire third-party data sets and other data products. Our future growth is increasingly dependent on our ability to increase consumption of our platform by building and expanding the Data Cloud. Expanding Within our Existing Customer Base Our large base of customers represents a significant opportunity for further consumption of our platform. While we have seen an increase in the number of customers that have contributed more than $1 million in product revenue in the trailing 12 months, we believe that there is a substantial opportunity to continue growing these customers further, as well as continuing to expand the usage of our platform within our other existing customers. We plan to continue investing to encourage increased consumption and adoption of new use cases among our existing customers, particularly large enterprises. Once deployed, our customers often expand their use of our platform more broadly within the enterprise and across their ecosystem of customers and partners as they migrate more data to the public cloud, identify new use cases, and realize the benefits of our platform and the Data Cloud. However, because we generally recognize product revenue on consumption and not ratably over the term of the contract, we do not have visibility into the timing of revenue recognition from any particular customer. In any given period, there is a risk that customer consumption of our platform will be slower than we expect, including in response to adverse macroeconomic conditions, which may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. New software releases or hardware improvements, like better storage compression and cloud infrastructure processor improvements, may make our platform more efficient, enabling customers to consume fewer compute, storage, and data transfer resources to accomplish the same workloads. To the extent these improvements do not result in an offsetting increase in new workloads, we may experience lower revenue. In addition, from April 2023 through the date of this filing, we experienced lower than expected consumption. Our ability to increase usage of our platform by, and sell additional contracted capacity to, existing customers, and, in particular, large enterprise customers, will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our platform, competition, pricing, macroeconomic conditions, overall changes in our customers spending levels, customers attempts to optimize their consumption, the effectiveness of our and our partners efforts to help our customers realize the benefits of our platform, and the extent to which customers migrate new workloads to our platform over time, including data science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning workloads. 35 Table of Contents Acquiring New Customers We believe there is a substantial opportunity to further grow our customer base by continuing to make significant investments in sales and marketing and brand awareness. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including the productivity of our sales organization, competitive dynamics in our target markets, changes in our customers spending and platform consumption in response to market uncertainty, and our ability to build and maintain partner relationships, including with global system integrators, resellers, and technology partners. While our platform is built for organizations of all sizes, we focus our selling efforts on large enterprise customers and customers with vast amounts of data, and providing industry-specific solutions. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth if we are unable to hire, develop, integrate, and retain talented and effective sales personnel; if our sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time; or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. Investing in Growth and Scaling our Business We are focused on our long-term revenue potential, and believe that our market opportunity is large. We will continue to invest significantly in research and development to improve our platform, including in the areas of data science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. In addition, we are focused on expanding our business both domestically and internationally. As part of these efforts, we are investing in meeting the needs of organizations in geographies and specialized industries that have heightened data requirements, including with respect to data localization, privacy, and security. We intend to continue to invest heavily to grow our business to take advantage of our expansive market opportunity, while also focusing on profitability and cash flow. 36 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, and assess operational efficiencies. The calculation of the key business metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. The following tables present a summary of key business metrics for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 July 31, 2022 April 30, 2022 Product revenue (in millions) $ 590.1 $ 555.3 $ 522.8 $ 466.3 $ 394.4 Free cash flow (non-GAAP) (in millions)(1)(2) $ 283.1 $ 205.3 $ 65.0 $ 53.8 $ 172.4 April 30, 2023 January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 July 31, 2022 April 30, 2022 Customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million(3) 373 330 287 247 207 Net revenue retention rate(3) 151 % 158 % 165 % 171 % 174 % Forbes Global 2000 customers(3) 590 580 559 528 513 Remaining performance obligations (in millions)(4) $ 3,409.0 $ 3,660.5 $ 3,003.1 $ 2,715.7 $ 2,610.0 ________________ (1)Includes net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 July 31, 2022 April 30, 2022 Net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions $ 3.8 $ 10.0 $ 0.1 $ 4.8 $ 9.0 (2)Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were $84.4 million and $53.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of non-GAAP free cash flow. See the section titled Free Cash Flow for a reconciliation of non-GAAP free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. (3)Historical numbers for (i) customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million, (ii) net revenue retention rate, and (iii) Forbes Global 2000 customers reflect any adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. In addition, our Forbes Global 2000 customer count reflects adjustments for annual updates to the Forbes Global 2000 list by Forbes. (4)As of April 30, 2023, our remaining performance obligations were approximately $3.4 billion, of which we expect approximately 57% to be recognized as revenue in the twelve months ending April 30, 2024 based on historical customer consumption patterns. The weighted-average remaining life of our capacity contracts was 1.8 years as of April 30, 2023. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition are generally dependent upon customers future consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion and can extend beyond the original contract term in cases where customers are permitted to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. In addition, our historical customer consumption patterns are not necessarily indicative of future results. Product Revenue Product revenue is a key metric for us because we recognize revenue based on platform consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion, and not based on the amount and duration of contract terms. Product revenue is primarily derived from the consumption of compute, storage, and data transfer resources, which are consumed by customers on our platform as a single, integrated offering. Customers have the flexibility to consume more than their contracted capacity during the contract term and may have the ability to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. Our consumption-based business model distinguishes us from subscription-based software companies that generally recognize revenue ratably over the contract term and may not permit rollover. Because customers have flexibility in the timing of their consumption, which can exceed their contracted capacity or extend beyond the original contract term in many cases, the amount of product revenue recognized in a given period is an important indicator of customer satisfaction and the value derived from our platform. While customer use of our platform in any period is not necessarily indicative of future use, we estimate future revenue using predictive models based on customers historical usage to plan and determine financial forecasts. Product revenue excludes our professional services and other revenue, which has been less than 10% of revenue for each of the periods presented. 37 Table of Contents Customers with Trailing 12-Month Product Revenue Greater than $1 Million Large customer relationships lead to scale and operating leverage in our business model. Compared with smaller customers, large customers present a greater opportunity for us to sell additional capacity because they have larger budgets, a wider range of potential use cases, and greater potential for migrating new workloads to our platform over time. As a measure of our ability to scale with our customers and attract large enterprises to our platform, we count the number of customers under capacity arrangements that contributed more than $1 million in product revenue in the trailing 12 months. For purposes of determining our customer count, we treat each customer account, including accounts for end-customers under a reseller arrangement, that has at least one corresponding capacity contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. We do not include customers that consume our platform only under on-demand arrangements for purposes of determining our customer count. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe the growth in use of our platform by our existing customers is an important measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. We monitor our dollar-based net revenue retention rate to measure this growth. To calculate this metric, we first specify a measurement period consisting of the trailing two years from our current period end. Next, we define as our measurement cohort the population of customers under capacity contracts that used our platform at any point in the first month of the first year of the measurement period. The cohorts used to calculate net revenue retention rate include end-customers under a reseller arrangement. We then calculate our net revenue retention rate as the quotient obtained by dividing our product revenue from this cohort in the second year of the measurement period by our product revenue from this cohort in the first year of the measurement period. Any customer in the cohort that did not use our platform in the second year remains in the calculation and contributes zero product revenue in the second year. Our net revenue retention rate is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our net revenue retention rate for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Since we will continue to attribute the historical product revenue to the consolidated contract, consolidation of capacity contracts within a customers organization typically will not impact our net revenue retention rate unless one of those customers was not a customer at any point in the first month of the first year of the measurement period. We expect our net revenue retention rate to decrease over the long-term as customers that have consumed our platform for an extended period of time become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and our product revenue that we use to calculate net revenue retention rate, and as their consumption growth primarily relates to existing use cases rather than new use cases. In addition, we have recently seen, and may continue to see, impacts on customer consumption patterns due to holidays and certain of our customers increasing their consumption of our platform at a slower pace than expected, which may negatively impact our net revenue retention rate in future periods. Forbes Global 2000 Customers We believe that the number of Forbes Global 2000 customers is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue trends as we focus our selling efforts on large enterprise customers and customers with vast amounts of data. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is a subset of our customer count based on the 2022 Forbes Global 2000 list. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is subject to adjustments for annual updates to the list by Forbes, as well as acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity with respect to such customers, and we present our Forbes Global 2000 customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. 38 Table of Contents Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represent the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including (i) deferred revenue and (ii) non-cancelable contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. RPO excludes performance obligations from on-demand arrangements and certain time and materials contracts that are billed in arrears. Portions of RPO that are not yet invoiced and are denominated in foreign currencies are revalued into U.S. dollars each period based on the applicable period-end exchange rates. RPO is not necessarily indicative of future product revenue growth because it does not account for the timing of customers consumption or their consumption of more than their contracted capacity. Moreover, RPO is influenced by a number of factors, including the timing and size of renewals, the timing and size of purchases of additional capacity, average contract terms, seasonality, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the extent to which customers are permitted to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. Due to these factors, it is important to review RPO in conjunction with product revenue and other financial metrics disclosed elsewhere herein. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as GAAP net cash provided by (used in) operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software development costs. Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of free cash flow. We believe information regarding free cash flow provides useful supplemental information to investors because it is an indicator of the strength and performance of our core business operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 July 31, 2022 April 30, 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 299,444 $ 217,316 $ 79,277 $ 64,433 $ 184,613 Less: purchases of property and equipment (6,970) (5,362) (8,505) (3,848) (7,413) Less: capitalized internal-use software development costs (9,341) (6,693) (5,779) (6,736) (4,804) Free cash flow (non-GAAP)(1)(2) $ 283,133 $ 205,261 $ 64,993 $ 53,849 $ 172,396 ________________ (1)Includes net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 January 31, 2023 October 31, 2022 July 31, 2022 April 30, 2022 Net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions $ 3,785 $ 10,034 $ 52 $ 4,796 $ 9,045 (2)Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were $84.4 million and $53.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of free cash flow. Historically, we have received a higher volume of orders from new and existing customers in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year. As a result, we have historically seen higher free cash flow in the first and fourth fiscal quarters of each year. 39 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We deliver our platform over the internet as a service. Customers choose to consume our platform under either capacity arrangements, in which they commit to a certain amount of consumption at specified prices, or under on-demand arrangements, in which we charge for use of our platform monthly in arrears. Under capacity arrangements, from which a majority of our revenue is derived, we typically bill our customers annually in advance of their consumption. However, in future periods, we expect to see an increase in capacity contracts providing for quarterly upfront billings and monthly in arrears billings as our customers increasingly want to align consumption and timing of payments. Revenue from on-demand arrangements typically relates to initial consumption as part of customer onboarding and, to a lesser extent, overage consumption beyond a customers contracted usage amount or following the expiration of a customers contract. Revenue from on-demand arrangements represented approximately 2% of our revenue for each of the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022. We recognize revenue as customers consume compute, storage, and data transfer resources under either of these arrangements. In limited instances, customers pay an annual deployment fee to gain access to a dedicated instance of a virtual private deployment. We recognize the deployment fee ratably over the contract term. Such deployment revenue represented less than 1% of our revenue for each of the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022. Our customer contracts for capacity typically have a term of one to four years. The weighted-average term of capacity contracts entered into during the three months ended April 30, 2023 is 1.7 years. To the extent our customers enter into such contracts and either consume our platform in excess of their capacity commitments or continue to use our platform after expiration of the contract term, they are charged for their incremental consumption. In many cases, our customer contracts permit customers to roll over any unused capacity to a subsequent order, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity. For those customers who do not have a capacity arrangement, our on-demand arrangements generally have a monthly stated contract term and can be terminated at any time by either the customer or us. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from fees charged to our customers based on the compute, storage, and data transfer resources consumed on our platform as a single, integrated offering. We do not make any one of these resources available for consumption without the others. Instead, each of compute, storage, and data transfer work together to drive consumption on our platform. For compute resources, consumption is based on the type of compute resource used and the duration of use or, for some features, the volume of data processed. For storage resources, consumption for a given customer is based on the average terabytes per month of all of such customers data stored in our platform. For data transfer resources, consumption is based on terabytes of data transferred, the public cloud provider used, and the region to and from which the transfer is executed. Because customers have flexibility in their consumption, and we generally recognize revenue on consumption and not ratably over the term of the contract, we do not have the visibility into the timing of revenue recognition from any particular customer contract that typical subscription-based software companies may have. As our customer base grows, we expect our ability to forecast customer consumption in the aggregate to improve. However, in any given period, there is a risk that customers will consume our platform more slowly than we expect, including in response to adverse macroeconomic conditions, which may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue also includes professional services and other revenue, which consists primarily of consulting, technical solution services, and training related to our platform. Our professional services revenue is recognized over time based on input measures, including time and materials costs incurred relative to total costs, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract deliverables, when applicable. Other revenue consists primarily of fees from customer training delivered on-site or through publicly available classes. Allocation of Overhead Costs Overhead costs that are not substantially dedicated for use by a specific functional group are allocated based on headcount. Such costs include costs associated with office facilities, depreciation of property and equipment, information technology (IT) and general recruiting related expenses and other expenses, such as software and subscription services. 40 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of cost of product revenue and cost of professional services and other revenue. Cost of revenue also includes allocated overhead costs. Cost of product revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of (i) third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in connection with our customers use of our platform and the deployment and maintenance of our platform on public clouds, including different regional deployments, and (ii) personnel-related costs associated with customer support and maintaining service availability and security of our platform, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. We periodically receive credits from third-party cloud providers that are recorded as a reduction to the third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. Cost of product revenue also includes amortization of internal-use software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets, and expenses associated with software and subscription services dedicated for use by our customer support team and our engineering team responsible for maintaining our platform. Cost of professional services and other revenue. Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of personnel-related costs associated with our professional services and training departments, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, amortization of an acquired developed technology intangible asset, and costs of contracted third-party partners and software tools. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and professional services organizations to support the growth of our business. Some of these investments, including certain support costs and costs of expanding our business internationally, are incurred in advance of generating revenue, and either the failure to generate anticipated revenue or fluctuations in the timing of revenue could affect our gross margin from period to period. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales commissions and draws paid to our sales force and certain referral fees paid to third parties, including amortization of deferred commissions. A portion of the sales commissions paid to the sales force is earned based on the rate of the customers consumption of our platform, and a portion of the commissions paid to the sales force is earned upon the origination of the customer contracts. Sales commissions tied to customers consumption are expensed in the same period as they are earned. Sales commissions and referral fees earned upon the origination of the new customer or customer expansion contracts are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit that we determined to be five years. Sales and marketing expenses also include advertising costs and other expenses associated with our sales, marketing and business development programs, including Summit, our annual user conference, offset by proceeds from such conferences and programs. In addition, sales and marketing expenses are comprised of travel-related expenses, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our sales and marketing organizations, amortization of an acquired developer community intangible asset, and outside services contracted for sales and marketing purposes. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we grow our business. However, we expect that our sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. 41 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our research and development staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include contractor or professional services fees, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform, and expenses associated with computer equipment, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our research and development organization. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows, particularly as we incur additional costs related to continued investments in our platform. However, we expect that our research and development expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. In addition, research and development expenses that qualify as internal-use software development costs are capitalized, the amount of which may fluctuate significantly from period to period. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our finance, legal, human resources, facilities, and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting, and other professional services fees, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative functions, insurance, unallocated lease costs associated with unused office facilities to accommodate planned headcount growth, and other corporate expenses. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our available-for-sale marketable debt securities, net of associated fees. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of (i) unrealized gains (losses) on our strategic investments in equity securities, and (ii) the effect of exchange rates on our foreign currency-denominated asset and liability balances. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and U.S. federal and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Snowflake Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and a majority-owned subsidiary in which we have a controlling financial interest. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest represents the net income (loss) of our majority-owned subsidiary attributed to noncontrolling interest using the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Revenue $ 623,599 $ 422,371 Cost of revenue(1) 209,414 147,930 Gross profit 414,185 274,441 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 331,558 243,912 Research and development 277,412 150,798 General and administrative 78,453 68,497 Total operating expenses 687,423 463,207 Operating loss (273,238) (188,766) Interest income 43,131 4,759 Other expense, net (2,562) (8,481) Loss before income taxes (232,669) (192,488) Benefit from income taxes (6,605) (26,694) Net loss (226,064) (165,794) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (437) Net loss attributable to Snowflake Inc. $ (225,627) $ (165,794) ________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue $ 30,462 $ 22,635 Sales and marketing 72,295 52,469 Research and development 136,417 73,593 General and administrative 25,335 23,796 Total stock-based compensation $ 264,509 $ 172,493 The overall increase in stock-based compensation for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, was primarily attributable to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation associated with restricted stock unit awards (RSUs) granted prior to our Initial Public Offering (IPO). RSUs granted prior to our IPO had both a service-based and a performance-based vesting condition and, as a result, we recognized stock-based compensation associated with such RSUs using an accelerated attribution method. As of April 30, 2023, total compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards not yet recognized was $3.1 billion, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.1 years. See Note 11, Equity, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. 43 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 34 35 Gross profit 66 65 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 53 58 Research and development 44 36 General and administrative 13 16 Total operating expenses 110 110 Operating loss (44) (45) Interest income 7 1 Other expense, net (2) Loss before income taxes (37) (46) Benefit from income taxes (1) (7) Net loss (36) (39) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest Net loss attributable to Snowflake Inc. (36%) (39%) ________________ (1)Stock-based compensation included in the table above as a percentage of revenue as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue 5 % 6 % Sales and marketing 12 12 Research and development 21 17 General and administrative 4 6 Total stock-based compensation 42 % 41 % 44 Table of Contents Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 590,072 $ 394,434 50% Professional services and other 33,527 27,937 20% Total $ 623,599 $ 422,371 48% Percentage of revenue: Product 95% 93% Professional services and other 5% 7% Total 100% 100% Product revenue increased $195.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to increased consumption of our platform by existing customers, as evidenced by our net revenue retention rate of 151% as of April 30, 2023. We had 373 customers with product revenue of greater than $1 million for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2023, an increase from 207 customers as of April 30, 2022. Such customers represented approximately 64% and 57% of our product revenue for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Within these customers, we had 69 and 21 customers with product revenue of greater than $5 million and $10 million, respectively, for the trailing 12 months ended April 30, 2023. For each of the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, approximately 98% of our revenue was derived from existing customers under capacity arrangements. The remainder was derived from on-demand arrangements and new customers under capacity arrangements for each of the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022. The preceding historical metrics reflect any adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. For purposes of determining revenue derived from (i) customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million, (ii) new customers, and (iii) existing customers, we treat each customer account, including accounts for end-customers under a reseller arrangement, that has at least one corresponding capacity contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. Professional services and other revenue increased $5.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the same periods in the prior year, as we continued to expand our professional services organization to help our customers further realize the benefits of our platform. 45 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit (Loss), and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue: Product $ 159,378 $ 111,411 43% Professional services and other 50,036 36,519 37% Total cost of revenue $ 209,414 $ 147,930 42% Gross profit (loss): Product $ 430,694 $ 283,023 52% Professional services and other (16,509) (8,582) 92% Total gross profit $ 414,185 $ 274,441 51% Gross margin: Product 73% 72% Professional services and other (49%) (31%) Total gross margin 66% 65% Headcount (at period end) Product 383 257 Professional services and other 524 387 Total headcount 907 644 Cost of product revenue increased $48.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $29.5 million in third-party cloud infrastructure expenses as a result of increased customer consumption. Personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs also increased $11.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees. The remaining increase in cost of product revenue was primarily driven by an increase of $5.6 million in amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets and internal-use software development costs. Our product gross margin was 73% and 72% for the three months ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The slight improvement was primarily due to (i) higher volume-based discounts for our purchases of third-party cloud infrastructure, and (ii) increased cost efficiency as a result of cloud infrastructure processor improvements. While we expect our product gross margin to remain relatively flat for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2024, a number of factors could hinder any improvement in our product gross margin, including (i) fluctuations in the mix and timing of customers consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion, (ii) whether or not a customer contracts with us through our marketplace listings, (iii) our discounting practices, including as a result of changes to the competitive environment, and (iv) the extent of our investments in our operations, including performance improvements that may make our platform or the underlying cloud infrastructure more efficient. Cost of professional services and other revenue increased $13.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $10.9 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees. The remaining increase in cost of professional services and other revenue was attributable to the amortization of an acquired developed technology intangible asset as a result of the Mountain business combination completed in February 2023. Professional services and other gross margin declined for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to overall increased costs from scaling our professional services organization, including increased headcount and amortization of an acquired developed technology intangible asset as a result of the Mountain business combination. However, we do not believe the year-over-year changes in professional services and other gross margins are meaningful given that our professional services and other revenue represents a small percentage of our revenue. 46 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 331,558 $ 243,912 36% Percentage of revenue 53% 58% Headcount (at period end) 2,866 2,247 Sales and marketing expenses increased $87.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $63.9 million in personnel-related costs (excluding commission expenses) and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees. Expenses associated with sales commissions and draws paid to our sales force and certain referral fees paid to third parties, including amortization of deferred commissions, also increased $9.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increases in customers' consumption of our platform. Advertising costs and other expenses associated with our sales, marketing and business development programs also increased $8.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily driven by increased expenses related to in-person sales and marketing events. The remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses was attributable to a $4.8 million increase in amortization of an acquired developer community intangible asset as a result of the Streamlit business combination completed in March 2022. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 277,412 $ 150,798 84% Percentage of revenue 44% 36% Headcount (at period end) 1,612 890 Research and development expenses increased $126.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $108.5 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased stock-based compensation, headcount, and overall costs to support the growth in our business. The increase in personnel-related costs included a $62.8 million increase in stock-based compensation for the three months ended April 30, 2023, primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees. The remaining increase in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to (i) impairment charges of $7.1 million, recognized during three months ended April 30, 2023, related to our capitalized internal-use software development costs previously included in construction in progress that were no longer probable of being completed, and (ii) an increase of $5.7 million in third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform. 47 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 78,453 $ 68,497 15% Percentage of revenue 13% 16% Headcount (at period end) 925 778 General and administrative expenses increased $10.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $6.1 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased headcount, stock-based compensation, and overall costs to support the growth in our business. The remaining increase in general and administrative expense was attributable to increased outside services, primarily related to external legal, accounting, and other professional service fees, and other corporate expenses to support the normal course of operations and our continued growth. Interest Income Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 43,131 $ 4,759 806% Interest income increased $38.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to higher yields on our investments in available-for-sale marketable debt securities as a result of increased interest rates. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Net unrealized losses on strategic investments in equity securities $ (2,414) $ (8,859) (73%) Other (148) 378 (139%) Other expense, net $ (2,562) $ (8,481) (70%) Other expense, net decreased $5.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to a decrease in net unrealized losses recorded on our strategic investments in marketable equity securities. Benefit from Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 % Change (dollars in thousands) Loss before income taxes $ (232,669) $ (192,488) 21% Benefit from income taxes (6,605) (26,694) (75%) Effective tax rate 2.8% 13.9% 48 Table of Contents Our benefit from income taxes decreased $20.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to the partial release of a valuation allowance as a result of the Streamlit business combination completed in March 2022. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets, and the significant components of our recorded tax expense are current cash taxes in various jurisdictions. The cash tax expenses are impacted by each jurisdictions individual tax rates, laws on the timing of recognition of income and deductions, and availability of net operating losses and tax credits. Our effective tax rate might fluctuate significantly and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than forecasted in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than forecasted in countries that have higher statutory rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments totaling $5.0 billion. Our investments primarily consist of corporate notes and bonds, U.S. government and agency securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, and money market funds. As of April 30, 2023, our RPO was $3.4 billion. Our RPO represents the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including (i) deferred revenue and (ii) non-cancelable contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods, which are not recorded on the balance sheet. Portions of RPO that are not yet invoiced and are denominated in foreign currencies are revalued into U.S. dollars each period based on the applicable period-end exchange rates. Our primary source of cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary uses of cash include personnel-related expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, sales and marketing expenses, overhead costs, acquisitions and strategic investments we may make from time to time, and repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program. As of April 30, 2023, our material cash requirements from known contractual obligations and commitments related primarily to (i) third-party cloud infrastructure agreements, (ii) operating leases for office facilities, and (iii) subscription arrangements used to facilitate our operations at the enterprise level. These agreements are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. For the three months ended April 30, 2023, there were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our commitments and contractual obligations disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on March 29, 2023. See Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional details. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, we paid an aggregate of $123.1 million in cash for the Mountain and LeapYear business combinations, net of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash acquired. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. Repurchases may be effected, from time to time, either on the open market (including via pre-set trading plans), in privately negotiated transactions, or through other transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws. The program is funded using our working capital and will expire in March 2025. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be determined by management based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. During the three months ended April 30, 2023, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $191.7 million, including transaction costs, at a weighted-average price of $136.39 per share. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. As of April 30, 2023, $1.8 billion remained available for future repurchases under the stock repurchase program. See Note 11, Equity, to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional details. In March 2023, we entered into a lease agreement related to a new office facility located outside of the United States for a total commitment of $37.0 million. The lease will commence in the fiscal year ending January 31, 2024, with a lease term of 8.5 years that includes an early termination option. 49 Table of Contents On May 26, 2023, we acquired all outstanding stock of Neeva Inc., a privately-held company which provides search technology powered by language models, for approximately $150 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. We are currently evaluating the purchase price allocation for this transaction. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments, as well as cash flows expected to be generated by our operations, will be sufficient to support our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, acquisitions and strategic investments we may make from time to time, and repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program, for the next 12 months and beyond. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, expenditures related to our headcount growth, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase public cloud capacity, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. We may continue to enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may, as a result of those arrangements or the general expansion of our business, be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 299,444 $ 184,613 Net cash used in investing activities $ (362,213) $ (189,792) Net cash used in financing activities $ (223,658) $ (11,846) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, primarily consisting of (i) stock-based compensation, net of amounts capitalized, (ii) depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and amortization of acquired intangible assets, (iii) amortization of deferred commissions, (iv) net amortization (accretion) of premiums (discounts) on investments, (v) amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets, (vi) net unrealized losses on strategic investments in equity securities, and (vii) deferred income tax benefit or expense, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. For the three months ended April 30, 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $299.4 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $226.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $306.4 million, and net cash inflows of $219.1 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of business combinations. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 were a $362.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of billings and collections as we have historically received a higher volume of customer orders in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year, partially offset by (i) a $110.5 million decrease in deferred revenue due to revenue recognition outpacing invoicing for prepaid capacity agreements, (ii) a $16.4 million increase in deferred commissions earned upon the origination of customer contracts, (iii) a $10.8 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to payments related to our operating lease obligations, and (iv) a $8.5 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to purchases under our 2020 ESPP and the timing of accruals and payments. For the three months ended April 30, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities was $184.6 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $165.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $197.9 million, and net cash inflows of $152.5 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of a business combination. 50 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities increased $114.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended April 30, 2022, primarily due to an increase of $259.5 million in cash collected from customers resulting from increased sales. This was partially offset by increased expenditures due to an increase in headcount and growth in our business. We expect to continue to generate positive net cash flows from operating activities for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2024. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 was $362.2 million, primarily driven by $222.8 million in net purchases of investments, an aggregate of $123.1 million in cash paid for the Mountain and LeapYear business combinations, net of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash acquired, and to a lesser extent, capitalized internal-use software development costs and purchases of property and equipment to support our office facilities. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 was $189.8 million, primarily as a result of $177.9 million in cash paid for the Streamlit business combination, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and to a lesser extent, purchases of property and equipment to support our office facilities and capitalized internal-use software development costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 was $223.7 million, primarily as a result of $191.7 million in repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program and $84.4 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $52.4 million from the issuance of equity securities under our equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 was $11.8 million, primarily as a result of $53.2 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $41.4 million in proceeds from the issuance of equity securities under our equity incentive plans. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. By their nature, these estimates and assumptions are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on March 29, 2023. 51 Table of Contents