ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a North American mountain resort and adventure company, delivering distinctive vacation and travel experiences to our customers for over three decades. We wholly own six four-season mountain resorts with approximately 8,000 skiable acres and over 1,130 acres of land available for real estate development. Our mountain resorts are geographically diversified across North Americas major ski regions, including the Eastern United States, the Rocky Mountains and Canada. Our mountain resorts are located within an average of approximately 160 miles of major metropolitan markets with high concentrations of affluent skiers and several major national airports, including: New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Denver, Pittsburgh, Montreal and Toronto. We also operate an adventure travel business, which includes Canadian Mountain Holidays (CMH), a leading heli-skiing adventure company in North America. CMH provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering and hiking over approximately 3.1 million acres. Additionally, we operate a comprehensive real estate business through which we manage, market and sell vacation club properties, manage condominium hotel properties, and sell and market residential real estate. Our three reportable segments are as follows: Mountain : Our Mountain segment includes our mountain resort and lodging operations at Steamboat Ski & Resort (Steamboat), Winter Park Resort (Winter Park), Stratton Mountain Resort (Stratton), Snowshoe Mountain Resort (Snowshoe), Mont Tremblant Resort (Tremblant), and Blue Mountain Ski Resort (Blue Mountain). Our Mountain segment includes our 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain prior to our acquisition of the remaining 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain on September 19, 2014 ("Blue Mountain Acquisition"). Adventure: Our Adventure segment is comprised of CMH, which provides heli-skiing, mountaineering, and hiking in British Columbia, and our ancillary businesses that support CMH and provide commercial aviation services, such as firefighting, leasing and helicopter maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO") services to third parties. Real Estate : Our Real Estate segment includes our real estate management, marketing and sales businesses, as well as our real estate development activities. The Real Estate segment includes Intrawest Resort Club Group (IRCG), our vacation club business, Intrawest Hospitality Management, Inc. ("IHM"), which manages condominium hotel properties and Playground, our residential real estate sales and marketing business, as well as our 50.0% interest in Mammoth Hospitality Management L.L.C. ("MHM") and 57.1% interest in Chateau M.T., Inc. ("Chateau"). In addition to our reportable segments, our consolidated financial results reflect items related to our legacy real estate development and sales activities and non-core assets and operations (referred to herein as Legacy, non-core and other). Revision of Previously Issued Financial Statements In the third quarter of fiscal year 2015, we identified errors primarily related to accounting for initiation fees associated with the sale of memberships in a private club. The errors impacted prior reporting periods, starting in fiscal year 2003. We assessed the cumulative impact of these errors on each period impacted under the guidance of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 250-10, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, related to Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No.99, Materiality, and have determined that the impact of the errors was not material, both individually and in the aggregate, to any previously issued financial statements. We elected to revise our previously issued financial statements to facilitate comparisons across periods. In addition, we corrected other immaterial previously out-of-period adjustments to reflect those items in the periods in which the transactions originated. 26 The following is a description of the nature of the errors: We incorrectly recognized revenue on initiation fees related to memberships in a private club. The revenue should have been recognized over the expected useful life of the private club. The impact of this error was a decrease in revenue of $0.4 million for each of the three and nine months ended March 31, 2014 and an increase in deferred revenue of $3.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2014. We did not properly record the present value of our future liability for initiation fee refunds. The impact of this error was an increase to other long-term liabilities of $5.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2014 and a corresponding increase in interest expense of $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2014 , respectively. We also corrected other immaterial errors including (i) timing of certain helicopter depreciation expense, (ii) amortization of deferred losses related to a terminated interest rate hedge, (iii) classification of discounts and complimentary usage on heli-skiing trips, and (iv) timing of expenses associated with a self-insurance liability. Recent Transactions Blue Mountain Acquisition On September 19, 2014 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired the remaining 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain that we did not already own from Blue Mountain Resorts Holdings Inc. ("Blue Mountain Holdings") for a purchase price of CAD $61.4 million, or approximately $54.8 million USD based on prevailing exchange rates on the Acquisition Date, in a privately negotiated transaction. In connection with the Blue Mountain Acquisition, the shareholders agreement between us and Blue Mountain Holdings was terminated. The purchase price, along with fees and expenses incurred in connection with the transaction, were financed through an Incremental Amendment, dated as of September 19, 2014 (the "Incremental Amendment"), to our credit agreement dated as of December 9, 2013 (the "Credit Agreement") and existing cash. The Incremental Amendment has the same economic and other terms as the original term loan facility under the Credit Agreement. Amendment to Credit Agreement On April 29, 2015, we and certain of our subsidiaries that guarantee our Senior Debt executed the second amendment (the Second Amendment) to our existing Credit Agreement. The Second Amendment adjusted the our Term Loan to reduce the applicable margin for borrowings under the Term Loan from 4.5% to 3.75% for adjusted LIBOR loans. The applicable margin for borrowings under the LC Facility and Revolver did not change from our current applicable margin of 4.5%. In addition to the re-pricing of the applicable margin, the terms of the Second Amendment also provide a twelve month soft call protection for lenders at a price of 101, or 101% of the then current Term Loan principal amount. All other terms and conditions of the Second Amendment are consistent with the Credit Agreement. Factors Affecting our Business Economic Conditions Our results of operations are affected by consumer discretionary spending. Numerous economic trends support the notion that the health of the general economy has improved in recent periods. We believe that if the economy continues to improve, consumers will have more disposable income and a greater inclination to engage in and spend money on leisure activities, which will positively impact our results of operations. We also believe that lower fuel prices experienced in recent periods can, if sustained, benefit the travel and leisure industry. Snowfall and Weather The timing and amount of snowfall and other weather conditions can have an impact on visitation and the financial results in our Mountain and Adventure segments. Our resorts are geographically diversified and have strong snowmaking capabilities, which help to partially mitigate the impact of localized snow conditions and weather. In addition, our increasing percentage of revenue derived from season pass and frequency products sold prior to the ski season helps to insulate us from variations in snowfall and weather conditions. Prolonged periods of severe weather at our resorts and heli-skiing tenures can force us to cancel or suspend operations which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Weather may also have an effect on our summer fire suppression activities and flight hours. Season Pass and Frequency Product Usage Season pass products offer unlimited access to lifts at our resorts, subject to certain exceptions and restrictions, for a fixed upfront payment. Frequency products are valid for a specific period of time or number of visits, providing our customers with flexibility to ski on multiple 27 Table of Contents dates for a fixed price. The number of visits from season pass and frequency product holders is influenced by sales volume and usage levels. In recent ski seasons, season pass and frequency product sales have been increasing, while usage levels vary from one ski season to the next due primarily to changes in weather, snowfall and skiing conditions. A greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders results in downward pressure on the effective ticket price (ETP) since these passholders are skiing for a fixed upfront payment, regardless of the number of times they visit. This downward pressure on ETP is more pronounced in ski seasons with higher snowfall, as season pass holders increase their usage. Similarly, a greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders may result in downward pressure on Revenue Per Visit, as defined in "Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management". We expect the volume and pricing of season pass and frequency product sales to continue to increase in future ski seasons; however, ETP and Revenue Per Visit in any given ski season may increase or decrease as a result of the mix of visitors and pass products. Seasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our business is seasonal in nature. Although each of our mountain resorts operates as a four-season resort, based upon historical results, we generate the highest revenue between our second and third fiscal quarters, which includes the peak ski season. Similarly, CMH generates the majority of its revenue during the same periods, our second and third fiscal quarters, as these fiscal quarters are also the peak heli-skiing season. As a result of the seasonality of our business, our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, during our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Years and Presidents Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or less peak periods, holidays and weekends in our second fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our third fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations. The following table contains selected unaudited statements of operations information for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 and the four preceding quarters (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 September 30, 2014 June 30, 2014 March 31, 2014 Mountain revenue $ 258,092 $ 94,655 $ 36,313 $ 26,540 $ 215,084 Adventure revenue 44,579 10,244 22,614 17,660 50,376 Real Estate revenue 17,635 15,152 15,071 12,482 18,876 Total reportable segment revenue $ 320,306 $ 120,051 $ 73,998 $ 56,682 $ 284,336 Resort Real Estate Markets We currently intend to resume development of residential vacation homes at our mountain resorts when market conditions are favorable. The value and sales volume of vacation homes fluctuate with macro-economic trends and consumer sentiment. Macroeconomic conditions have improved in recent periods, which has supported a partial recovery in the market for vacation homes in the United States and Canada. Despite these trends, the median vacation home price and number of vacation homes sold in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 were well below the peak, suggesting ample room for continued growth. Potential for Volatility in Ancillary Services within our Adventure Segment Historically, a significant share of the ancillary firefighting services in our Adventure segment was performed under medium term contracts with the U.S. Forest Service ("USFS") of between one and three years, which generated fixed revenue for committed aircraft and crew availability, plus incremental revenue based on flight hours. In fiscal year 2014, several of these contracts expired. As a result, a higher proportion of our ancillary flight service revenue in the future will be from as needed contracts that enable us to bid for spot flying and other short-term assignments. Revenue from these arrangements is almost entirely based on flight hours and is therefore less consistent than USFS committed contracts. Accordingly, our ability to generate ancillary revenue will be increasingly dependent on higher forest fire levels and our ability to opportunistically deploy our helicopters in other industries and/or lines of business during the off season. 28 Table of Contents Increased General and Administrative Costs as a Public Company As a result of consummating our initial public offering ("IPO") on February 5, 2014, we started incurring incremental costs associated with operating as a growth-oriented publicly traded company. We expect the full magnitude of these incremental costs, which include higher compliance costs, SEC reporting costs, stock exchange and transfer agent fees, increased costs for directors and officers insurance, board compensation and expenses, software and systems upgrades and other costs, will be fully reflected in our fiscal year 2015 results and in subsequent fiscal years. Our general and administrative costs, including incremental public company costs, are generally allocated to our segments, which will put downward pressure on segment results in fiscal year 2015 and beyond. Foreign Currency Fluctuation Risk We present our financial statements in U.S. dollars. Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses are transacted in Canadian dollars, principally at Tremblant, Blue Mountain and within our Adventure segment. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. See "