Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Human Capital Resources General As of January 31, 2025, we had 7,834 employees operating across 34 countries. None of our employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. In certain countries in which we operate, we are subject to, and comply with, local labor law requirements, which include works councils and industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Location We are a Delaware corporation with a globally distributed workforce. We recruit and hire employees in jurisdictions around the world based on a range of factors, including the available talent pool, the type of work being performed, the relative cost of labor, regulatory requirements and costs, and other considerations. The majority of our personnel work from physical offices. 16 Table of Contents Culture and Engagement We consider our culture and employees to be important to our success. Our culture is driven by our core company values: Put Customers First: We only succeed when our customers succeed, so we focus on what matters most to them. Integrity Always: We are open, honest, and respectful. Think Big: We set big goals that will make a positive impact and a lasting difference. Be Excellent: We hold ourselves to the highest standards to achieve quality and excellence in everything we do. Make Each Other the Best: We bring ideas and people together through respect and collaboration. Get it Done: We follow through on our commitments and deliver results. Own It: We hold ourselves accountable at all times. Embrace Each Others Differences: We are mindful that everyone has different experiences, and we use our differences to strengthen who we are. Total Rewards We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team, and we measure employee performance against our company values. We are dependent on our management, highly-skilled software engineers, and sales personnel, and it is crucial that we continue to attract and retain valuable employees. To facilitate attraction and retention, we strive to provide opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by strong compensation and benefits programs. We use a combination of fixed and variable cash compensation for all employees, and we award equity compensation to certain employees that is designed to align our employees interests with those of our stockholders. Eligible employees are also able to participate in our 2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which allows employees to purchase our stock at a 15 percent discount up to U.S. Internal Revenue Code limits. We offer employees benefits that vary by country and are designed to meet or exceed local legal requirements and to be competitive in the marketplace. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights are important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, and other contractual protections, to protect our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technology, software, know-how, and brand. We use open-source software in our platform. As of January 31, 2025, we held more than 900 issued U.S. patents and had more than 400 U.S. patent applications pending. We also held more than 200 issued patents in foreign jurisdictions. As of January 31, 2025, we held more than 35 registered trademarks in the United States, and also held more than 640 registered or protected trademarks in foreign jurisdictions. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. Although we rely on intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets, as well as contractual protections to establish and protect our proprietary rights, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, creation of new services, features and functionality, and frequent enhancements to our platform are more essential to establishing and maintaining our technology leadership position. 17 Table of Contents We control access to and use of our proprietary technology and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including technical controls and contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers, and partners. We require our employees, consultants, and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements, and we control and monitor access to our software, documentation, proprietary technology, and other confidential information. Our policy is to require all employees and independent contractors to sign agreements assigning to us any inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments, processes, and other intellectual property generated by them on our behalf and under which they agree to protect our confidential information. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our customers and partners. See the section titled Risk Factors for a more comprehensive description of risks related to our intellectual property. Government Regulation Our business activities are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, rules, and regulations. Compliance with these laws, rules, and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods. Nevertheless, compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to global trade, business acquisitions, consumer and data protection, AI Technology, environmental or related requirements or disclosures, and taxes, could have a material impact on our business in future periods. For more information on the potential impacts of government regulations affecting our business, see the section titled Risk Factors. Available Information Our website address is www.snowflake.com. Information found on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file electronically with the SEC our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at www.snowflake.com, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections titled Special Note about Forward-Looking Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or growth prospects. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should not interpret our disclosure of any of the following risks to imply that such risks have not already materialized. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We have experienced rapid revenue growth and have a limited operating history, both of which make it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. Our revenue was $3.6 billion, $2.8 billion, and $2.1 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. As a result of our historical rapid growth, limited operating history, large number of new product features, including those incorporating artificial intelligence and machine learning technology (AI Technology), and unstable macroeconomic conditions, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations, including revenue, gross margin, remaining performance obligations (RPO), and the percentage of RPO we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods, is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth and platform consumption. Our historical revenue growth should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, our revenue growth could slow or our revenue could decline for a number of reasons, including increased competition; changes to technology, such as changes in software or underlying cloud infrastructure or the increasing prominence of new technology like artificial intelligence; reputational harm; and reduced demand for our platform. For example, customers may continue to optimize consumption, rationalize budgets, and prioritize cash flow management, including by reducing storage through shorter data retention policies and shortening committed contract durations. As a result of the foregoing and our rapid revenue growth in prior periods, our revenue growth rate has slowed in recent periods. Any further declines in our revenue growth rate could adversely affect investors perceptions of our business, and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Our revenue growth is also dependent on our ability to increase our penetration into existing markets, and to successfully enter and grow new markets, including highly-regulated markets such as financial services, healthcare, and the public sector. Sales to highly-regulated entities are subject to substantial additional costs and risks that are not present in sales to other customers, which are described below in the risk factor titled We do business with federal, state, local, and foreign governments and agencies, and heavily regulated organizations; as a result, we face heightened risks related to special contract terms, non-standard product deployments, and compliance with additional processes, rules, and regulations. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described below. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. We may not have visibility into our future financial position and results of operations. Customers generally consume our platform by using compute, storage, and/or data transfer resources. Unlike a subscription-based business model, in which revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription, we generally recognize revenue on consumption. Because our customers have flexibility in the timing of their consumption, we do not have the visibility into the timing of revenue recognition that a typical subscription-based software company has. Customer consumption fluctuates from time to time, and there is a risk that customers will consume our platform at lower levels than we expect, including in response to new software releases or hardware improvements that may make our platform more efficient, adverse macroeconomic conditions, or holidays. Unexpected fluctuations in customer consumption may cause actual results to differ from our forecasts. As a result, our results of operations in a given period should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. 19 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced net losses in each period since inception. We generated net losses of $1.3 billion, $838.0 million and $797.5 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As of January 31, 2025 and 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $7.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. We expect our costs and expenses to increase in future periods. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources to further develop our platform, expand our research and development teams, retain our employees, and acquire other businesses, including in the areas of data science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. In addition, our platform currently operates on public cloud infrastructure provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure (Azure), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and our costs and gross margins are significantly influenced by the prices we are able to negotiate with these public cloud providers, which in certain cases are also our competitors. If we fail to meet any minimum commitments under our third-party cloud infrastructure agreements, we may be required to pay the difference, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We will also incur increased general and administrative expenses associated with our growth, including costs related to internal systems, operating as a public company, and targeting regulated industries or markets. Our efforts to grow our business have been and may continue to be costlier than we expect, or our revenue growth rate may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset the increase in operating expenses resulting from these investments. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, or if we are unable to achieve the revenue growth that we expect from these investments, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. The markets in which we operate are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. In recent years, we have adopted open data formats like Apache Iceberg tables to allow customers to use our platform to process data stored in external customer-controlled environments outside of Snowflake, and we have introduced a significant number of new features and expanded into new product categories like artificial intelligence. These changes are driving increased competition, both because there is less customer lock in when our products are used in external environments, and also because we are competing across more product categories, each of which is subject to distinct customer requirements and preferences. Our success depends on our ability to continue to innovate in response to changing market dynamics. Our current competitors include: large, well-established, public cloud providers that generally compete in all of our markets, including AWS, Azure, and GCP; less-established public and private cloud companies with products that compete in some or all of our markets; other established vendors of legacy database solutions or big data offerings; and new or emerging entrants seeking to develop competing technologies. We compete based on various factors, including price, performance, product features, breadth of use cases, multi-cloud availability, brand recognition and reputation, customer support, and differentiated capabilities, including ease of implementation and data migration, ease of administration and use, scalability and reliability, data governance, security and compatibility with existing standards, programming languages, third-party products, and the ability to operate in hybrid environments. Many of our competitors have substantially greater brand recognition, customer relationships, and financial, technical, and other resources than we do, and may be able to respond more effectively than us to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements, and buying practices. In addition, we may not be able to respond to market opportunities as quickly as smaller companies or offer as many discounts or free services as our competitors. Our support of open data formats may also reduce switching costs between us and our competitors. 20 Table of Contents We currently offer our platform on the public clouds provided by AWS, Azure, and GCP, which are also some of our primary competitors. Currently, a substantial majority of our business is run on the AWS public cloud. There is risk that one or more of these public cloud providers could use its respective control of its public clouds to embed innovations or privileged interoperating capabilities in competing products, bundle competing products, provide us unfavorable pricing, leverage its public cloud customer relationships to exclude us from opportunities, and treat us and our customers differently with respect to terms and conditions or regulatory requirements than it would treat its similarly situated customers. Further, they have the resources to acquire, invest in, or partner with existing and emerging providers of competing technologies and thereby accelerate adoption of those competing technologies. All of the foregoing could make it difficult or impossible for us to provide products and services that compete favorably with those of the public cloud providers. Some of our customers use drivers and/or connectors to connect our platform to third-party applications or databases. Attempts by third-party application or database providers to restrict the use of drivers and connectors may make it more difficult for customers to use our platform, which could lead to reduced sales and consumption. For all of these reasons, competition may negatively impact our ability to acquire new customers and maintain and grow use of our platform, put downward pressure on our prices and gross margins, or lead us to take greater risks, any of which could materially harm our business, reputation, results of operations, revenue retention rate, and financial condition. If we fail to innovate in response to changing customer needs, new technologies, or other market requirements, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We compete in markets that evolve rapidly. We believe that the pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their purchases of cloud data platforms on a broad range of factors, including performance and scale, markets addressed, types of data processed, ease of data ingress and egress, support of open data formats, user experience and programming languages, use of artificial intelligence, and data governance, security, and regulatory compliance. We introduced data warehousing on our platform in 2014 as our core use case, and our customers subsequently began using our platform for additional product categories, including analytics, data engineering, artificial intelligence, and applications and collaboration. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to innovate rapidly and effectively and increase customer adoption of our platform and the AI Data Cloud, including the Snowflake Marketplace and Snowpark. Further, the value of our platform to customers increases to the extent they are able to use it to process and access all types of data. We need to continue to invest in technologies, services, and partnerships that increase the types of data available and processed on our platform, the ease with which customers can ingest data into our platform, and the types of environments that our platform supports, including hybrid offerings that extend into customer-managed environments. We must also continue to enhance our data sharing and marketplace capabilities so customers can share their data with internal business units, customers, and other third parties, acquire additional third-party data and data products to combine with their own data to gain additional business insights, and develop and monetize applications on our platform. As we develop, acquire, and introduce new services and technologies, including those that may incorporate artificial intelligence and machine learning, we may be subject to new or heightened legal, ethical, and other challenges. In addition, our platform requires third-party public cloud infrastructure to operate. Currently, we use public cloud offerings provided by AWS, Azure, and GCP. We will need to continue to innovate to optimize our offerings for these and other public clouds that our customers require, particularly as we expand internationally. Further, the markets in which we compete are subject to evolving industry standards and regulations, resulting in increasing data governance and compliance requirements for us and our customers and partners. To the extent we expand further into the public sector and highly regulated countries and industries, our platform and operations may need to address additional requirements specific to those markets, including data sovereignty requirements. If we are unable to enhance our platform or operations to keep pace with these rapidly evolving customer requirements, or if new technologies emerge that deliver competitive products at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely than our platform, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents If we are not successful in executing our investments in AI Technology, including generative AI Technology, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We are investing significantly in AI Technology. Our investments include internally developing AI Technology, acquiring companies with complementary AI Technology, and partnering with companies to bring AI Technology to our platform. Our competitors are pursuing similar opportunities and may, as a result of greater resources, branding, or otherwise, develop, adopt and implement AI Technology faster or more successfully than we do, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our successful development of AI Technology depends on our access to GPUs, which are currently in high demand. Finally, customers use of our AI Technology is often dependent on their ability to meet evolving regulatory standards, successfully complete internal compliance reviews, and enter into mutually acceptable contractual terms. If they are unable to do so, they may not use our AI Technology as much as we anticipate, or at all. It is also possible that our investments in AI Technology do not result in the benefits we anticipate, or enable us to maintain our competitive advantage, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, we may not accurately anticipate market demand or offer AI Technology that amplifies our core data platform. If we, our customers, or third-party service providers experience an actual or perceived security breach or unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers data, our data, or our platform, our platform may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our platform may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, we store, transmit, generate, and process our, our customers, and our business partners confidential and proprietary data. Such data includes sensitive data, such as personal information, protected health information, and financial data. We also use third-party service providers, sub-processors, and technology to help us deliver services to our customers and their end-users, as well as for our internal business operations. For example, our platform is built on the infrastructure of third-party public cloud providers, such as AWS, Azure, and GCP, and we use third-party technology to assist with securing our environment and providing access to our platform. Some of our customers also use third-party service providers to assist with their use of our platform or third-party technology, such as connectors, to access our platform. These third-party service providers may process, store, or transmit data of our employees, partners, customers, and customers end-users or may otherwise be used to help operate our platform and corporate systems. We, our customers and business partners, and these third parties face a variety of evolving cybersecurity threats. Cybersecurity threats come from a variety of sources, including traditional computer hackers, internal and external personnel (such as through theft or misuse), sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors. Cybersecurity threat actors can use a wide variety of methods, including unauthorized intrusions, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware attacks, business email compromises, computer malware, infostealer malware, social engineering attacks (including through deep-fakes and phishing), internal and external personnel misconduct or error, supply-chain attacks, software vulnerabilities, software or hardware disruptions or failures, and attacks enhanced or facilitated by AI Technology, all of which are prevalent in our industry and our customers and partners industries. These methods change frequently and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. Threat actors who successfully compromise networks or systems may use the unauthorized access as a vector to compromise other networks and systems. Threat actors goals often include disrupting a companys operations or ability to provide services, obtaining unauthorized access to platforms, systems, networks, or physical facilities in which data is stored or processed, or through which data is transmitted, and stealing data. Ransomware attacks are becoming more frequent and severe. 22 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that security measures designed to protect against security incidents will be effective, and our efforts to investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate any security incidents that do occur may not be successful. Even though we may not control the security measures of third-party providers or environments, we may incur liability or suffer reputational harm if such measures are breached. Actions taken by us, third-party cloud providers, or the other third parties with whom we work to detect, investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate security incidents could result in outages, data losses, and disruptions of our business. We may be unable to detect, mitigate, or remediate vulnerabilities in our information security systems (such as our hardware and software, including that of third parties upon which we rely) on a timely basis. We may be unwilling or unable to make ransom payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments, the negative precedent such payments would set, or uncertainty over whether such payments would result in the threat actor deleting stolen data or otherwise delivering on their promised course of action. In general, cybersecurity incidents or security vulnerabilities could lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of data and income, reputational harm, diversion of funds, increased insurance costs, and other harm to our business, reputation, and competitive position. In addition, customers use of our platform in violation of our terms of service, including by granting access to a single Snowflake account to various third-party entities, could amplify the impact of any cybersecurity or product incidents. Security incidents and their resulting consequences, including negative publicity, may also cause customers to stop using our platform, deter existing or prospective customers from using our platform, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. Our customers have experienced, and may in the future experience, security incidents in connection with their use of our platform that harm our customer relationships and our reputation, even when such incidents are due to vulnerabilities, policy violations, inadequate security controls, or credential exposures that we do not cause. We operate under a shared responsibility cybersecurity model where we are responsible for the security of our platform and underlying cloud infrastructure, while our customers are responsible for selecting, enabling, and configuring security controls for their individual environments in a manner that meets applicable cybersecurity standards and effectively reduces their information security risk. To assist customers in meeting their responsibilities, we offer and support a range of tools and features within our platform for access control, including multi-factor authentication (MFA), network access policies, and unified role-based access controls and policies. Some customers also use third-party external authentication tools, in which case we do not have visibility into whether adequate access controls (such as MFA or network restrictions) are being enforced. Regardless of whether customers use our authentication tools or external tools, if customers allow static access credentials, they are responsible for ensuring that the credentials remain private and are rotated on a regular basis. If our customers do not implement, or incorrectly implement, these features or otherwise fail to fulfill their responsibilities under our shared responsibility cybersecurity model, there is a higher risk that they will be the victim of cybersecurity incidents, which may harm our customer relationships, our reputation, and our business, which has occurred in the past and may happen again in the future. We have contractual and other legal obligations to notify customers and other parties of certain security incidents, and may choose to make such notifications even if not legally required to do so. For example, SEC rules require disclosure on Form 8-K of the nature, scope and timing of any material cybersecurity incident and the reasonably likely impact of such incident. Determining whether a cybersecurity incident is notifiable or reportable may not be straightforward, and any such mandatory disclosures are costly and could lead to negative publicity, loss of customer or partner confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, diversion of managements attention, governmental investigations, and the expenditure of significant capital and other resources to investigate, respond to, or alleviate problems caused by the actual or perceived security breach. Any security breach of our platform, our operational systems, our software (including open-source software), our physical facilities, or the systems of our third-party service providers or sub-processors, or the perception that one has occurred, or unauthorized access to our customers or partners systems, data, or technology, could result in claims that we have breached customer contracts or other legal obligations, including as described below. In addition, we may be subject to, and have received in the past, requests by regulators (including members of Congress) for information about our security practices, our public statements about our security program, experiences, and issues. Alleged failures, problems, or issues related to our information security or our customers use of our platform, including following such information requests, could result in additional investigations; actions from a variety of regulators, including state attorneys general, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and the SEC; litigation; indemnity obligations; fines; penalties; mitigation and remediation costs; reputational harm; diversion of managements attention; customer relationship issues; and other liabilities and damage to our business. Further, cybersecurity incidents have in the past and may in the future lead customers or prospective customers to attempt to negotiate contractual terms that are less favorable to us, such as broader indemnification obligations, more stringent cybersecurity requirements, and higher limitations of liability. 23 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be adequate for liability arising from data security breaches involving us or our customers or other third parties, indemnification obligations, or other liabilities. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or results in changes to our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements) could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Risks related to our systems and security breaches are likely to increase as we continue to expand our platform and geographic footprint, grow our customer and partner base, acquire operating companies, begin to operate in environments outside of our platform and over which we exercise significantly less or no control, and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of data. For example, in May 2024, we became aware that a cybersecurity threat actor had accessed a number of our customers Snowflake accounts as a result of such customers failure to fulfill certain of their obligations under our shared responsibility cybersecurity model (e.g., implementing MFA and network access policies). Even though we did not identify any evidence suggesting this activity was caused by or otherwise related to any vulnerability or misconfiguration of our systems, or a breach of our platforms security or our environment, we have been the subject of numerous lawsuits, regulatory investigations, and lawmaker inquiries relating to these customer incidents. Since May 2024, we have been made aware of additional cyberattacks on customers Snowflake accounts using similar methods to take advantage of customers failures to implement appropriate security safeguards (e.g., MFA and network access policies). We are unable to predict the outcome or timeline of these matters or if any additional requests, inquiries, lawsuits, investigations or other government actions may arise. We have suffered and may continue to suffer negative publicity and reputational damage, including due to the misperception that our customers incidents resulted from a vulnerability, misconfiguration or breach of our platforms security or systems and malicious activity within our environment. In addition, we may experience a loss of existing customers or face claims by customers, and it is possible that we are not able to fully recover any losses relating to these matters through any applicable insurance coverage or we may be required to seek indemnification from breached customers to mitigate our damages, which may be unsuccessful or impractical. These matters, together with any additional inquiries, regulatory or governmental investigations, or other disputes that result from these customer security incidents, will require us to divert resources and may harm our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations. Finally, some of our employees work remotely, including while traveling for business, which increases our cybersecurity risk, creates data accessibility concerns, and makes us more susceptible to security breaches or business disruptions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects. 24 Table of Contents Any litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. From time to time, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes, cybersecurity incidents, employment claims, including claims related to the loss of employee equity grants upon termination, intellectual property claims, or securities class actions or other claims related to volatility in the trading price of our common stock. For example, we are named in a securities class action lawsuit in federal court alleging federal securities law violations, as well as numerous class action lawsuits alleging common law and statutory claims in connection with cybersecurity matters. See the section titled Legal Proceedings for more information. Litigation could result in substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our existing insurance might not cover such claims, provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, or continue to be available on terms acceptable to us (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements). A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, potentially harming our business, financial position, and results of operations. We or our third-party service providers could suffer disruptions, outages, defects, and other performance and quality problems with our platform or with the public cloud and internet infrastructure on which it relies. Our business depends on our platform being available without disruption. We and our third-party service providers have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages, defects, and other performance and quality problems related to our platform and with the public cloud and internet infrastructure on which our platform relies. These problems can be caused by a variety of factors, including introductions of new functionality, vulnerabilities, coding errors, and defects in proprietary and open-source software, human error or misconduct, natural disasters (such as tornadoes, earthquakes, or fires), capacity constraints, design limitations, denial of service attacks, or other security-related incidents. Further, if our contractual and other business relationships with our public cloud providers are terminated, suspended, or suffer a material change to which we are unable to adapt, such as the elimination of services or features on which we depend, we could be unable to provide our platform and could experience significant delays and incur additional expenses in transitioning customers to a different public cloud provider. Any disruptions, outages, defects, and other performance and quality problems with our platform or with the public cloud, internet infrastructure, or other technology on which it relies, or any material change in our contractual and other business relationships with our public cloud providers, could result in reduced use of our platform, increased expenses, including service credit obligations, and harm to our brand and reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our results of operations, our stock price could decline. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition to the other risks described herein, factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: fluctuations in demand for our platform or changes in our pricing model; fluctuations in usage of our platform, including as a result of customer optimization efforts that result in reduced consumption to execute workloads; our ability to attract new customers; our ability to retain existing customers and drive their increased sustained consumption of our platform (including new product features and functionality); customer expansion rates; timing, amount, and cost of our investments to expand the capacity of our public cloud providers; seasonality, including the impact of holidays; 25 Table of Contents investments in new features, functionality, and programming languages, including investments in AI Technology and in making our platform available to store and process highly regulated data or comply with new or existing data sovereignty requirements; fluctuations in consumption resulting from the introduction of new features, technologies, or capabilities to our software, systems, or to underlying cloud infrastructure, including features or capabilities that may increase or decrease the consumption required to execute existing or future workloads, like better storage compression, cloud infrastructure processor improvements, or compute optimization, or that allow customers to use our platform for compute services without requiring storage; our ability to execute on our business strategy, including our strategies related to the AI Data Cloud, such as Snowpark, the Snowflake Marketplace, and Snowflake Cortex AI; the timing and frequency of purchases; the speed with which customers are able to migrate data onto our platform; fluctuations or delays in purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or enhancements by us or our competitors; changes in customers budgets and cash flow management strategies and in the timing of their budget cycles and purchasing decisions; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; the amount and timing of operating expenses, particularly research and development expenses, including with respect to GPUs to develop AI Technology, and sales and marketing expenses, including commissions; the amount and timing of non-cash expenses, including stock-based compensation, goodwill impairments, and other non-cash charges; the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training, and integrating new employees and retaining and motivating existing employees; the effects and timing of acquisitions and their integration; general political, social, market, and economic conditions, uncertainty, or volatility, both domestically and internationally, as well as political, social, and economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers and partners participate or on which they rely; public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; the impact, or timing of our adoption, of new accounting pronouncements; changes in regulatory or legal environments, including the interpretation or enforcement of regulatory or legal requirements, that may cause us to incur, among other things, expenses associated with compliance; the overall tax rate for our business, which may be affected by the mix of income we earn in the United States and in jurisdictions with different tax rates, the effects of stock-based compensation, and the effects of changes in our business; the impact of changes in tax laws or judicial or regulatory interpretations of tax laws, which are recorded in the period in which such laws are enacted or interpretations are issued and may significantly affect the effective tax rate of that period; inflation and our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated or measured in foreign currencies; 26 Table of Contents fluctuations or impairments in, or the full loss of, the market values of our strategic investments or of our portfolio, including changes to the value or accessibility of our cash and cash equivalents as a result of economic conditions or bank failures; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or customers; significant security breaches affecting our platform or customers accounts, external systems, or data; our ability to meet our debt obligations; and technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the delivery and use of our platform. Any of these factors may cause our results of operations to vary significantly or be adversely affected. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class actions. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products and platform. We must continue to increase the size and productivity of our sales and marketing organization to increase our sales to new and existing customers. It requires significant time and resources to hire and effectively onboard new sales and marketing personnel and to train and manage new and existing personnel so they are able to successfully sell our product. We also plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs that are industry-specific and focused on large organizations. Once a new customer begins using our platform, our sales team needs to focus on expanding consumption with that customer. All these efforts require us to invest significant financial and other resources, including in industries and sales channels in which we have limited experience to date. In addition, our sales compensation plans must be structured in a way that properly incentivizes our sales and marketing personnel to drive increased consumption and new capacity arrangements on favorable terms. Our business and results of operations will be harmed if our sales and marketing efforts generate increases in revenue that are smaller than anticipated. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our sales force if we are unable to attract, hire, develop, integrate, and retain talented and effective sales personnel, if our sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels, or if our sales and marketing programs, including our sales compensation plans, are not effective. 27 Table of Contents Sales efforts to large customers involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with respect to sales to smaller organizations. Sales to large customers involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller organizations, such as longer sales cycles, stronger customer leverage in negotiating pricing and other terms, more complex customer requirements, including in response to evolving industry regulations, the additional need to partner with third parties that advise such customers or help them integrate their IT solutions, substantial upfront sales costs, less predictability in completing some of our sales, and higher customer support expectations. For example, large customers may require considerable time to evaluate and test our platform or new features prior to making a purchase decision. In addition, large customers may be switching from legacy on-premises solutions when purchasing our products, and may rely on third parties with whom we do not have relationships when making purchasing decisions. Furthermore, large customers typically have more extensive compliance and vendor diligence programs with respect to new products and services, which can increase both the time and resources needed to sell to them and also result in the inability to sell to them if we do not meet their compliance standards. A number of factors also influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our platform, the renegotiation of existing agreements to cover additional product categories, changing laws, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, may vary significantly from customer to customer, with sales to large enterprises typically taking longer to complete. We have also historically seen consumption growth from large enterprises take longer than when compared to smaller enterprises. Moreover, large customers often begin to deploy our products on a limited basis but nevertheless demand implementation services and negotiate pricing discounts, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that sales to these customers will justify our substantial upfront investment. If we fail to effectively manage these risks associated with sales cycles and sales to large customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be affected. We do business with federal, state, local, and foreign governments and agencies, and heavily regulated organizations; as a result, we face heightened risks related to special contract terms, non-standard product deployments, and compliance with additional processes, rules, and regulations. We sell to the U.S. government, state and local governments, foreign governments, and heavily regulated organizations directly and through our partners. Selling to government and regulated customers involves significant costs and operational efforts that arise from special laws, regulations, certification or clearance requirements, procurement processes, contract terms, and customer requirements. We may fail to win sufficient government or regulated business to justify our investments. For the government and regulated business that we do win, performing under the contracts involves higher ongoing cost to meet the special requirements as well as heightened civil and criminal liability for noncompliance for us, our officers, and directors. We have obtained various government certifications and authorizations that are required to support sales opportunities to the government, including FedRAMP High and DOD Impact Level 4. We may be unable to achieve government certifications or clearances, or we may be required to make unexpected changes to our business, operations or products to obtain or sustain such certifications or clearances. As a result, our ability to sell into the government sector could be restricted until we satisfy the requirements of such certifications or clearances. In addition, we plan to continue to pursue additional authorizations, including national security clearances that allow us to support the U.S. national security community. Obtaining and maintaining national security clearances within a global enterprise will require significant operational investments and the successful implementation of new processes and controls. In addition, unlike our standard commercial offering, we anticipate delivering our platform and other offerings into customer environments, which presents risks and challenges arising from having less visibility into and control over the operation and security of our platform and other offerings. 28 Table of Contents A substantial majority of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution and reseller partners. Doing business with government entities, whether directly or indirectly, presents a variety of risks. Many government entities need significant education regarding our business model, as well as the uses and benefits of our platform. The procurement process for governments and their agencies is highly competitive and time-consuming, and government decisions about their procurement needs may, in certain circumstances, be subject to political influence. Beyond this, demand for our platform may be adversely impacted by public sector budgetary cycles, and funding availability that in any given fiscal cycle may be reduced or delayed, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown. Further, if we or our partners are successful in receiving a competitive contract award, that award could be challenged by one or more competitive bidders in a legal action known as a bid protest. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining or preserving contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. In the event a bid protest is unsuccessful, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. As a result of these lengthy and uncertain sales cycles, it is difficult for us to predict the timing of entering into customer agreements with government entities or with our distribution and reseller partners in the government market. In addition, public sector customers may have contractual, statutory, or regulatory rights to terminate current contracts with us or our third-party distributors or resellers for convenience or default. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for platform consumption prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to a default, we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services or be precluded from doing further business with government entities. Further, entities providing products or services to governments, whether directly or indirectly, are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts. Such laws, regulations, and contractual provisions impose compliance obligations that are more burdensome than those typically encountered in commercial contracts, and they often give customers in the government market substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies may relate to intellectual property, price protection, the accuracy of information provided to the government, incident notification, termination rights, and prohibition against any government indemnification obligations. In addition, governments may use procurement requirements as an alternative to lawmaking, and impose stricter requirements than would apply to the commercial sector in areas that are not directly related to the purchase. These rules and requirements may apply to us or third-party resellers or distributors whose practices we may not control. Such parties non-compliance could result in repercussions for us with respect to contractual and customer satisfaction issues. Further, federal, state, and local governments and regulators routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and contractual provisions, and changes in government policies may affect the level of oversight of government contractors and areas of focus (such as recent executive orders that affect compliance with nondiscrimination plans). If, as a result of an audit or investigation, it is determined that we have failed to comply with applicable requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits or payments we have received, costs associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines, loss of a government certification or clearance, and suspensions or debarment from future government business, and we may suffer reputational harm. Our customers include a number of non-U.S. governments, to which similar procurement, budgetary, contract, and audit risks of U.S. government contracting also apply, particularly in certain emerging markets where our customer base is less established. Such sales may also heighten our exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws. In addition, compliance with complex regulations, security certifications, and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant financial and management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Further, our business and results of operations could be harmed if our efforts to do business with governments and heavily regulated organizations do not generate the anticipated increases in revenue. Each of these difficulties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Finally, we are increasingly investing in doing business with customers and partners in heavily regulated commercial industries, such as the financial services and health care industries. Existing and prospective customers, such as those in these industries, may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with using and implementing our platform or services or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers and partners. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements toward third-party vendors of regulated entities generally, or our company in particular, that we may not be able to, or may choose not to, meet. We may make special compliance commitments that are more expensive to satisfy than we anticipate, or that we are unable to satisfy. In addition, customers in these heavily regulated areas and their regulators often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products, and practices. In the event that one or more customers or their regulators determine that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business. If we lose key members of our management team or are unable to attract and retain the executives and employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business and future growth prospects may be harmed. Our success depends in part on the continued services of our executive officers, as well as our other key employees in the areas of research and development and sales and marketing. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key employees resulting from the hiring or departure of these personnel. Our executive officers and other key employees are employed on an at-will basis, which means that these personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time. For example, in February 2024, Frank Slootman retired as Chief Executive Officer and Sridhar Ramaswamy was appointed to replace him; in July 2024, Grzegorz Czajkowski, our former EVP, Engineering and Support, resigned and left Snowflake to pursue another opportunity, and in September 2024, Vivek Raghunathan was appointed as SVP, Engineering and Support to replace him; in February 2025, Michael P. Scarpelli notified us of his intention to retire as Chief Financial Officer once his successor is appointed, after which he will transition into an advisory role to support continuity and a smooth transition; and in March 2025, Christopher W. Degnan notified us of his intention to retire as Chief Revenue Officer and Michael Gannon was appointed to replace him. The loss of additional executive officers or any significant change in key leadership could harm morale, cause additional personnel to depart, introduce operational delays or risks as departing employees are replaced and successors learn our business, or disrupt operations and implementation of business strategy as result of any changes such successors may make, each of which could harm our operating results. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing cloud-based data platform products, including products with artificial intelligence capabilities, and experienced sales, customer support, and professional services personnel. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing software engineers because of the sophistication of our platform. In order to support our growing business, we will need to continue to hire in new locations around the world and manage return to work and remote working policies, which may add to the complexity and costs of our business operations. From time to time, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have and can provide more competitive compensation and benefits. In addition, we require the majority of our employees to work from a physical office, while certain of our competitors allow remote work environments. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. Our stock price declined significantly during a portion of fiscal 2025. If the actual or perceived value of our equity awards declines or undergoes significant volatility, or if our existing employees receive significant proceeds from liquidating their previously vested equity awards, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. Furthermore, current and prospective employees may believe that their equity award offers have limited upside, and our competitors may be able to offer more appealing compensation packages. In order to retain our existing employees and manage potential attrition, including as a result of any stock price decreases and market volatility that impact the actual or perceived value of our equity awards, we may issue additional equity awards or provide our employees with increased cash compensation, which could negatively impact our results of operations and be dilutive to stockholders. For example, our stock-based compensation, net of amounts capitalized, represented 41% of our revenue for fiscal 2025 and 42% for fiscal 2024, and we expect stock-based compensation to remain substantial even if we are successful in reducing it as a percentage of our revenue. Finally, if we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that we or these employees have breached our or their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. 30 Table of Contents We also believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and that the critical nature of the platform that we provide promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our employees. As our workforce becomes larger and more distributed around the world or as our executive management team changes, we may not be able to maintain important aspects of our culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel. If we fail to attract and recruit new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, or reductions in cloud spending, or lower than expected consumption, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers and potential customers. Negative conditions or volatility in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, bank failures, international trade relations, inflation, tariffs, and interest rate fluctuations, or the existence of epidemics, pandemics or other public health crises, political turmoil and geopolitical conflicts, natural catastrophes, warfare, or terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Japan, or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments, including spending on cloud technologies, and negatively affect the growth of our business. For example, the ongoing military conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, as well as the rising tensions between China and Taiwan, have created volatility in the global capital markets and could have further global economic consequences, including disruptions of the global supply chain. In addition, unfavorable conditions in the general economy may negatively impact our customers budgets or cash flow, which could impact the contract terms, including payment terms, our customers demand from us. Competitors, many of whom are larger and have greater financial resources than we do, may respond to challenging market conditions by lowering prices in an attempt to attract our customers. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. Our growth depends on the development, expansion, and success of our partner relationships. As part of our vision for the AI Data Cloud, we will need to grow and maintain a network of partners, including data and technology providers, data consumers, and data application developers. The relationships we have with these partners, and that our partners have with our customers, provide our customers with enhanced value from our platform and the AI Data Cloud, including Snowflake Cortex AI and the Snowflake Marketplace. Our future growth will be increasingly dependent on the success of these relationships, and if we are unsuccessful in growing and maintaining these relationships or the types and quality of data and data applications supported by or available for consumption on our platform, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, a small but increasing portion of our revenue is generated as a result of our relationships with global system integrators, managed service providers, and resellers. Increasingly, we and our customers rely on these partners to provide professional services, including customer implementations and migrations from legacy solutions and there may not be enough qualified partners available, or we may not be able to develop or maintain relationships with enough partners, to meet customer demand. While we provide our partners with training and other enablement programs, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently, and our return on these investments may be lower than expected. In addition, new partners may require extensive training or significant time and resources to achieve productivity. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of these partners, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their interactions with our customers, our ability to attract and retain new customers and expand customer consumption of our platform may be impacted, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully manage the growth of our professional services business and improve our profit margin from these services, our operating results could be harmed. Our professional services business, which performs implementation and training services for our customers, has grown larger and more complex as our product revenue has increased. We believe our future success depends in part on investment in professional services to facilitate customer code conversion and migration from legacy solutions and adoption of our platform, especially with large enterprises. As a result, our sales efforts have been and will continue to be focused on helping our customers more quickly realize the value of our platform and the AI Data Cloud rather than on the profitability of our professional services business. We price our professional services based on the anticipated cost of those services and, as a result, we expect to improve the gross profit percentage of our professional services business over time. If we are unable to manage the growth of our professional services business and improve our profit margin from these services, our operating results, including our profit margins, could be harmed. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity and reputation is critical to our relationships with, and to our ability to attract and retain, customers, partners, investors, and employees. The successful promotion of our brand depends on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to develop and deliver reliable, high-quality, and cost-effective products and services that meet the needs of our customers; our sales and marketing efforts, including effectiveness at developing a positive presence within our industry through participation in industry events and key media coverage; the influence of customer testimonials and use cases on the perception of our brand; effective integration into our platform of products and services we acquire or invest in; and our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, which we anticipate will increase as our market becomes more competitive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or generate the awareness or increased revenue we expect, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the significant expenses we incur in the efforts to build our brand. In addition, independent industry or financial analysts often provide reviews of our platform, as well as products and services of our competitors, and perception of our platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors products and services, our brand may be adversely affected. Negative media coverage could also adversely affect our brand and reputation. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors and we could lose customers or fail to attract potential customers, or fail to hire and retain employees, all of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the availability of our platform does not meet our service-level commitments to our customers, our revenue may be negatively impacted. We typically commit to our customers that our platform will maintain a minimum service-level of availability. If we are unable to meet these commitments, we may be obligated to provide customers with additional capacity at no cost, which could significantly affect our revenue. We rely on public cloud providers, such as AWS, Azure, and GCP, and any availability interruption in the public cloud could result in us not meeting our service-level commitments to our customers. In some cases, we may not have a contractual right with our public cloud providers that compensates us for any losses due to availability interruptions in the public cloud. Further, any failure to meet our service-level commitments could damage our reputation and hinder the adoption of our platform, and we could face loss of revenue from reduced future consumption of our platform. Any service-level failures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We assume liability for data breaches, intellectual property infringement, and other claims, which exposes us to substantial potential liability. In our customer contracts and certain strategic partnership agreements, we assume liability for certain security breaches and data protection claims caused by us and by certain third parties on which we rely. Our contracts with customers, partners, investors, and other third parties may also include indemnification provisions under which we agree to defend and indemnify them against claims and losses arising from alleged infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights and for other matters. Such claims may arise more often (and if they arise, may be more complex to litigate) as we begin to extend our platform and other offerings into customer environments over which we exercise significantly less or no control. We may not be successful in our attempt to limit our liability and indemnity obligations and obtain corresponding liability and indemnification obligations from vendors and partners that would require them to contribute to our obligations, and an event triggering our liability or indemnity obligations could give rise to multiple claims involving multiple customers or other third parties. In addition, there have been instances where our customers or other business partners attempt to claim indemnification even if indemnification obligations have not been triggered, and defending against such claims can be time-consuming and expensive. There is no assurance that our applicable insurance coverage, if any, would cover, in whole or in part, any such liability or indemnity obligations. We may be liable for up to the full amount of the contractual claims, which could result in substantial liability or material disruption to our business or could negatively impact our relationships with customers or other third parties, reduce demand for our platform, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify, pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, joint ventures, and platform technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technology, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, since the beginning of fiscal 2024, we have acquired several companies, including Samooha, Inc., a privately-held company which developed data clean room technology; Neeva Inc. (Neeva), a privately-held internet search company which leveraged generative AI Technology; Mountain US Corporation (f/k/a Mobilize.net Corporation), a privately-held company which provided a suite of tools for efficiently migrating databases to the AI Data Cloud; LeapYear Technologies, Inc., a privately-held company which provided a differential privacy platform; Night Shift Development, Inc., a privately-held data analytics firm focused on the U.S. public sector; and Datavolo, Inc., a privately-held company that built a dataflow infrastructure to support the creation, management, and observability of multimodal data pipelines for enterprise AI. Any such acquisitions or investments may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, financing, and pursuing suitable opportunities, whether or not the transactions are completed, and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties or unexpected costs assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, contracts or operations of any acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of an acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our platform, or we have difficulty retaining the customers, suppliers, or partners of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management, or otherwise. Any such transactions that we are able to complete may not result in the synergies or other benefits we expect to achieve, which could result in substantial impairment charges. These transactions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may inherit commitments, risks, and liabilities of companies that we acquire that we are unable to successfully mitigate and that may be amplified by our existing business. Finally, disputes or litigation can arise out of our acquisitions or investments from time to time, including in connection with the achievement of earnouts. 33 Table of Contents As part of our corporate development program, we invest in companies to support our key business initiatives. These companies range from early, growth stage companies to mature companies with established revenue streams. Our strategic investments are subject to risk of inability to achieve the desired strategic synergies and partial or total loss of investment capital. Furthermore, our competitors may invest in these companies alongside us, and may obtain information about our corporate development program or other business plans. The financial success of our investment is typically dependent on an exit in favorable market conditions. To the extent any of the companies in which we invest are not successful, which can include failure to achieve strategic business objectives as well as failure to achieve a favorable exit, we could recognize an impairment or loss on all or part of our investment, which we have done in the past. In addition, in certain cases we are required to consolidate one or more of our strategic investees financial results into ours. Fluctuations in any such investees financial results, due to general market conditions, bank failures, or otherwise, can negatively affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or the price of our common stock. If one or more of such investees fails to timely provide us with information necessary for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and disclosures, we may be unable to report our financial results in a timely manner, which would negatively affect our business and the price of our common stock. We also enter into strategic partnerships where we agree to incorporate third-party technologies into our platform and services. In some cases, we have revenue-sharing arrangements with our strategic partners who supply the technology. We may be unable to reach agreements with potential strategic partners on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be successful in partnering with the companies that have the technologies we need. Such strategic partnerships are also subject to a number of risks, including with respect to security controls, indemnification obligations, and ownership of intellectual property and other proprietary information. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial position, and results of operations. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our remaining performance obligations or in customer consumption. Historically, we have received a higher volume of orders from new and existing customers in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year. As a result, we have historically seen higher non-GAAP free cash flow in the first and fourth fiscal quarters of each year, and our sequential growth in remaining performance obligations has historically been the highest in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year. We may not be successful in our attempt to align our cash outflows with our cash receipts, particularly since we expect this seasonality to become more pronounced as we continue to target large enterprise customers based on their procurement, budgeting, and deployment cycles. In addition, while consumption is typically lower during holidays, the magnitude of any decrease is difficult to predict and that may result in inaccurate financial guidance. For more information about non-GAAP free cash flow, including a definition of non-GAAP free cash flow and a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), to free cash flow, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Natural disasters, public health crises, and other catastrophic events could have an adverse impact on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our partners, and our customers operate. Our platform and the public cloud infrastructure on which our platform relies are vulnerable to damage or interruption from catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, cyber attacks, military conflict or war, terrorist attacks, criminal acts, sabotage, other intentional acts of vandalism and misconduct, geopolitical events, and epidemics, pandemics or other public health crises. Some of our U.S. corporate offices in which we operate and certain of the public cloud data centers on which our platform runs are located in the San Francisco Bay Area and Pacific Northwest, regions known for seismic activity. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or the facilities of our public cloud providers could result in disruptions, outages, and other performance and quality problems. Our customers are also subject to the risk of catastrophic events. If those events occur, demand for our platform may decrease. If we are unable to develop and maintain adequate plans to ensure that our business functions continue to operate during and after a catastrophic event and to execute successfully on those plans if such an event occurs, our business could be seriously harmed. 34 Table of Contents Our current operations are international in scope, and we plan further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. A component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customer base internationally. Customer accounts outside the United States generated 24% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to address international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. For example, we anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with new partners in order to expand or continue our expansion into certain countries, including China, and if we fail to identify, establish, and maintain such relationships, we may be unable to execute on our expansion plans. We expect that our international activities will continue to grow for the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in existing and new international markets, which will require significant dedication of management attention and financial resources. Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including: slower than anticipated public cloud adoption by international businesses; changes in a specific countrys or regions political, economic, or legal and regulatory environment, including the effects of pandemics, tariffs, trade wars, sanctions, or long-term environmental risks; the need to adapt and localize our platform for China, Saudi Arabia, and other countries, including as a result of data sovereignty requirements, and the engineering and related costs that we may incur when making those changes; greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; unexpected changes in, or the selective application of, trade relations, regulations, or laws; new, evolving, and more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security, data localization, and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; compliance with requirements to hire local employees to perform certain specific functions, such as Saudi Arabias Regional Headquarters Program, which may not align with how we would otherwise operate our business; new, evolving, and potentially more stringent regulations relating to AI Technology; differing and potentially more onerous labor regulations that are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including regulations governing terminations in locations that do not permit at-will employment and deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing, and the increased costs associated with, an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs that are specific to each jurisdiction; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations, including increased costs associated with changing and potentially conflicting environmental regulations and requirements; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue, RPO, and expenses, and the cost and risk of utilizing mitigating derivative transactions and entering into hedging transactions to the extent we do so in the future; limitations on, or charges or taxes associated with, our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general market preferences for local vendors; 35 Table of Contents limited or insufficient intellectual property protection or difficulties obtaining, maintaining, protecting, or enforcing our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks and patents; political instability, military conflict or war, or terrorist activities; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (FCPA), U.S. bribery laws, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; burdens of complying with laws and regulations related to taxation; and regulations, adverse tax burdens, and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult or costly to repatriate earnings and cash. We expect to invest substantial time and resources to further expand our international operations, and, if we are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations could suffer. As we are offering our platform through a Chinese-owned operating partner to Chinese affiliates of certain multi-national customers, risks associated with economic, political, and social events in China could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We are currently offering our platform to Chinese affiliates of certain multi-national customers. Under Chinese law, we must offer our platform through a Chinese-owned operating partner, which must assume control and management of certain aspects of our platform and serve as the seller of record. This has required a new operating and go-to-market model, and there is a risk that functionality or customer experience may suffer and that we may incur liability or brand impairment arising from the operating partners actions or inactions. In addition, developing and operationalizing this new model is a significant investment and may not generate expected returns. We may also encounter the following risks: uncertainty regarding the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection for intellectual property rights in China and the practical difficulties of enforcing such rights; inability to secure our intellectual property and other proprietary information located in China from unauthorized access or theft; heightened risks of cyber incidents, which could lead to the unauthorized access to or exposure of customer data; inability to comply with extensive and evolving Chinese laws that are often ambiguous or inconsistently enforced; changes in tax regulations that may impact the economics of our China operating model; economic or political instability; a slowdown in Chinas economy; and a government-controlled foreign exchange rate and capital controls, including limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese yuan to other currencies. Further, geopolitical and national security tensions between China and the United States or other countries could lead to further restrictions on our ability to operate in China, increased scrutiny of our business operations in China, or unwillingness of certain customers to do business with us, including the U.S. federal government. Due to these and other risks, our operations in China may be more expensive or difficult than anticipated or they may fail, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. 36 Table of Contents We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings and payments received from our customers. We cannot be certain if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in further equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, particularly during times of market volatility and general economic instability. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Any debt we incur could give the debt holders rights senior to our stockholders to make claims on our assets and could involve covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may limit our ability to obtain additional capital, pursue business opportunities and strategic transactions, repurchase stock and pay dividends on our common stock. For example, the holders of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2027 and 0% convertible senior notes due 2029 (collectively, the Notes) have rights senior to holders of our common stock to make claims on our assets, and the indentures governing each series of the Notes, as supplemented (each an Indenture and together, the Indentures), include customary covenants for us, such as covenants to make payment of principal and special interest (if any) and remain current in our reporting obligations with the SEC (though no financial or operating covenants or restrictions on us paying dividends or issuing or repaying, prepaying or repurchasing our other securities or indebtedness). Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, including shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Notes, stockholders will experience dilution, and in some cases we may issue new equity securities that have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our common stock and diluting their interests. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay special interest, if any, on or to refinance the Notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance the Notes will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. We may not have enough available cash or the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and any future debt may contain limitations on our ability to do so. Holders of each series of the Notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions and limited exceptions, to require us to repurchase all or any portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of such series of the Notes (as defined and described in the applicable Indenture). Upon any conversion of Notes, we will be required to make cash payments to settle such conversion unless we elect to fully settle it by delivering shares of our common stock (other than any cash paid in lieu of delivering fractional shares). We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time if we are required to repurchase surrendered Notes or settle the conversion of Notes in cash. In addition, our ability to repurchase Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority, or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the Notes or to pay any cash upon future conversions of the Notes, when required by the Indentures, would constitute a default under the relevant Indenture. A default under either Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing any future indebtedness. If the repayment of such future indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. 37 Table of Contents The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If the conditional conversion feature of a series of the Notes is triggered, holders of such Notes will be entitled to elect to convert their Notes at any time during specified periods, as described in the applicable Indenture. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, unless we elect to fully settle such conversion by delivering shares of our common stock (other than any cash paid in lieu of delivering fractional shares), which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the relevant series of Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to invest and hold our cash. Our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, and Brazilian reals, and will likely be denominated in other currencies in the future. Because we report our results of operations and revenue in U.S. dollars, we currently face exposure to foreign currency translation risk and may in the future face other foreign currency risks. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. For example, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our platform to international customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, as our international operations expand, an increasing portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the United States. These operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Exposure to these risks and fluctuations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting estimates prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes appearing elsewhere herein. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights may not protect our business or provide us with a competitive advantage. To be successful, we must protect our business, technology and brand in the United States and other jurisdictions through trademarks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, service marks, invention assignments, contractual restrictions, and other intellectual property rights and confidentiality procedures. Despite our efforts to implement these protections, they may not protect our business or provide us with a competitive advantage for a variety of reasons, including: the failure by us to obtain patents and other intellectual property rights for important innovations or maintain appropriate confidentiality and other protective measures to establish and maintain our trade secrets; to the extent a customer or partner owns any intellectual property created through a professional services or other engagement, our inability to use or monetize that intellectual property as part of our business; uncertainty in, and evolution of, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights; potential invalidation of our intellectual property rights through administrative processes or litigation; 38 Table of Contents our inability to detect and protect against infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights by third parties; uncertainty regarding the applicability of intellectual property protections to AI Technology (including outputs generated from AI Technology); and other practical, resource, or business limitations on our ability to enforce our rights. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not provide the same level of protection of corporate proprietary information and assets, such as intellectual property, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and records, as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property or proprietary rights abroad. We may also be exposed to material risks of theft or unauthorized reverse engineering of our proprietary information and other intellectual property, including technical data, data sets, or other sensitive information. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in such foreign countries may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, if we are unable to prevent the disclosure of our trade secrets to third parties, or if our competitors independently develop any of our trade secrets, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could seriously harm our business. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights, protect our trade secrets, protect our trademarks, or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and result in counterclaims with respect to infringement of intellectual property rights by us. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or are required to incur substantial expenses defending our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may become subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. We compete in markets where there are a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual and proprietary rights, as well as disputes regarding infringement of these rights. In addition, many of the holders of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual and proprietary rights have extensive intellectual property portfolios and greater resources than we do to enforce their rights. As compared to our large competitors, our patent portfolio is relatively undeveloped and may not provide a material deterrent to such assertions or provide us with a strong basis to counterclaim or negotiate settlements. Further, to the extent assertions are made against us by entities that hold patents but are not operating companies, our patent portfolio may not provide deterrence because such entities are not concerned with counterclaims. Any intellectual property litigation to which we become a party may require us to do one or more of the following: cease selling, licensing, or using products, features, or data sets that incorporate the intellectual property rights that we allegedly infringe, misappropriate, or violate; require us to change the name of our products or services; make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments, or other costs or damages, including indemnification of third parties; obtain a license or enter into a royalty agreement, either of which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, in order to obtain the right to sell or use the relevant intellectual property; or redesign the allegedly infringing products to avoid infringement, misappropriation, or violation, which could be costly, time-consuming, or impossible. 39 Table of Contents Intellectual property litigation is typically complex, time consuming, and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. It may also result in adverse publicity, which could harm our reputation and ability to attract or retain employees, customers, or partners. As we grow, we may experience a heightened risk of allegations of intellectual property infringement. An adverse result in any litigation claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we use open-source software inconsistent with our policies and procedures or the license terms applicable to such software, we could be subject to legal expenses, damages, or costly remediation or disruption to our business. We use open-source software in our platform and in our professional service engagements. From time to time, companies that use third-party open-source software have faced claims challenging the use of such open-source software and their compliance with the terms of the applicable open-source license. We may be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open-source software or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open-source licensing terms. Additionally, despite our policies and procedures designed to govern our use of open-source software, we may incorporate open-source software with onerous licensing terms, including the obligation to make our source code available for others to use or modify without compensation to us, or inadvertently use third-party open-source software in a manner that exposes us to claims of non-compliance with the applicable terms of such license, including claims for infringement of intellectual property rights or for breach of contract. If we receive an allegation that we have violated an open-source license, we may incur significant legal expenses, be subject to damages, be required to redesign our product to remove the open-source software or publicly release certain portions of our proprietary source code, or be required to comply with onerous license restrictions, any of which could have a material impact on our business. Even in the absence of a claim, if we discover the use of open-source software inconsistent with our policies, we could expend significant time and resources to replace the open-source software or obtain a commercial license, if available. All of these risks are heightened by the fact that the ownership of open-source software can be uncertain, leading to litigation, that many of the licenses applicable to open-source software have not been interpreted by courts, and that these licenses could be construed to impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Any use of open-source software inconsistent with our policies or licensing terms could harm our business and financial position. Risks Related to Our Legal, Regulatory, and Tax Environment We are subject to stringent and changing obligations related to data, including data privacy and security, and the failure or perceived failure to comply with these obligations could result in significant fines and liability or otherwise result in substantial harm to our business and prospects. We are subject to data privacy and protection laws, regulations, guidance, external and internal policies and other documentation, industry standards, certifications, and contractual and other obligations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage, use, and other processing of personal information. These obligations are rapidly evolving, extensive, complex, and include inconsistencies and uncertainties. Examples of recent and anticipated developments that have impacted or could impact our business include the following: The European Unions (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the United Kingdoms General Data Protection Regulation (U.K. GDPR) established strict requirements applicable to the handling of personal information. The EUs Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), which became effective as of January 17, 2025, applies to financial entities, such as banks, insurance companies, and investment firms, as well as their information and communication technology third-party service providers. DORA aims to promote resiliency against operational disruptions in the financial sector. Indias Digital Personal Data Protection Act (DPDP Act), which was passed in August 2023, imposes strict rules regarding the collection, use, processing and storage of personal data in India. The DPDP Act will not come into effect until the Indian government provides notice of an effective date, which is expected in 2025. The EU has proposed the Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications, which, if adopted, would impose new obligations on using personal information in the context of electronic communications, particularly with respect to online tracking technologies and direct marketing. 40 Table of Contents Certain other jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal information transfer laws, such as Brazil, China, and Saudi Arabia, which could make it more difficult for us to transfer personal information across jurisdictions (such as transferring or receiving personal or other sensitive information that originates in the EU, China, or Saudi Arabia), or to enable our customers to transfer or replicate their data across jurisdictions using our platform. Existing mechanisms that may facilitate cross-border personal information transfers may change or be invalidated. Because our business model involves transmitting and mobilizing data across geographical areas, an inability or material limitation on our ability to transfer personal data to the United States or other countries could materially impact our business operations and revenue. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted or proposed data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, and consumer protection laws. Numerous U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws that impose certain obligations on covered businesses, including providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording residents with certain rights concerning their personal data. Such rights may include the right to access, correct, or delete certain personal data, and to opt-out of certain data processing activities, such as targeted advertising, profiling, and automated decision-making and, if exercised, may adversely impact our business and ability to provide our products and services. Certain states also impose stricter requirements for processing certain personal data, including sensitive information, such as conducting data privacy impact assessments. These state laws allow for statutory fines for noncompliance. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), provides increased privacy rights and protections, including the ability of individuals to opt out of specific disclosures of their personal information, and provides for fines of up to $7,988 per intentional violation and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. Other U.S. states have adopted, or are considering adopting, similar laws. The certifications we maintain and the standards that apply to our platform (or those we may maintain or that may apply in the future), such as the U.S. Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP), U.S. Department of Defense Impact Level 4 (IL4), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS), International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 27001, Health Information Trust Alliance Common Security Framework (HI-TRUST CSF), StateRAMP, among others, are becoming more stringent. We may also become subject to new laws that specifically regulate non-personal data. For example, we may become subject to certain parts of the EUs Data Act, which imposes certain data and cloud service interoperability and switching obligations to enable users to switch between cloud service providers without undue delay or cost, as well as certain requirements concerning cross-border international transfers of, and governmental access to, non-personal data outside the European Economic Area. Additionally, in the EU, the Network and Information Security Directive (NIS2) regulates resilience and incident response capabilities of entities operating in a number of sectors, including the digital infrastructure sector (such as cloud computing service providers). The deadline for transposition of NIS2 into local law was October 17, 2024; however, many of the member states in the EU have not fully transposed the Directive, leading to the opening of infringement procedures by the European Commission. Once fully implemented, non-compliance with NIS2 may lead to administrative fines of a maximum of 10 million Euros or up to 2% of the total worldwide revenue of the preceding fiscal year. These and other similar legal and regulatory developments could contribute to legal and economic uncertainty, increase our exposure to liability, affect how we design, market, and sell our platform, and impact how we operate our business, how our customers and partners process and share data, how we process and use data, and how we transfer personal data from one jurisdiction to another, any of which could increase our costs, require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, impact our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions, and/or negatively impact the types of data available on or the demand for our platform. It is possible that new laws may be adopted or existing laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. We incur substantial costs to comply with such laws and regulations, to meet the demands of our customers relating to their own compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and to establish and maintain internal policies, self-attestations, and third-party certifications supporting our compliance programs. Our customers may delegate certain of their GDPR compliance or other privacy law obligations to us, and we may otherwise be required to expend resources to assist our customers with such compliance obligations. 41 Table of Contents Any actual or perceived non-compliance with applicable data privacy and security obligations by us or our third-party service providers and sub-processors could result in proceedings, investigations, litigation, or claims against us by regulatory authorities, customers, or others, leading to reputational harm, higher liability and indemnity obligations, significant fines, litigation costs, additional reporting requirements or oversight, bans on processing personal information, orders to destroy or not use personal information, limitations in our ability to develop or commercialize our platform, inability to process personal information or operate in certain jurisdictions, and other damages. For example, if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the GDPR or U.K. GDPR, we may be subject to fines of up to (i) 20.0 million Euros or 17.5 million British pounds, as applicable, or (ii) 4% of our worldwide annual revenue, whichever is greater, as well as potential data processing restrictions and penalties. In addition, private plaintiffs have become increasingly active in bringing privacy- and information security-related claims against companies, including class action claims. Some of these claims allow for the recovery of statutory damages on a per violation basis, and, if viable, carry the potential for significant statutory damages, depending on the volume of data and the number of violations. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws and other obligations, investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity. In addition, any failure by us or our third-party service providers and sub-processors to comply with applicable obligations could result in proceedings against us. Certain regulators, such as the FTC, may prohibit our use of certain personal information as a result of such proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We publish privacy policies, certifications and other documentation regarding our security program and our collection, processing, use, and disclosure of personal information or other confidential information. We or our vendors may fail to comply with these policies, certifications, or documentation, or may be perceived to have failed to do so. We also from time to time make public statements regarding the data privacy and security features of our products, which may draw scrutiny from regulators or private parties. Claims by regulators or private parties that we have failed to follow our published statements or documentation or otherwise violated individuals privacy rights, misrepresented or made inaccurate claims about our products, or failed to comply with security or data protection laws, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Issues in the development and use of AI Technology, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability, or other adverse consequences to our business operations. The legal and regulatory landscape applicable to AI Technology is uncertain and is evolving rapidly, which may result in new and enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, confidentiality, privacy or security risks, ethical concerns, legal liability, or other complications that could adversely affect our business, reputation or financial condition, or results of operations. States, regions, and supranational bodies, including the EU and the United States, have passed or proposed new rules and regulations related to the use or sale of AI Technology. For example, the EUs Artificial Intelligence Act, the first comprehensive legal framework regulating artificial intelligence, entered into force in August 2024; Colorados Artificial Intelligence Act, which will go into effect on February 1, 2026, imposes obligations on developers and deployers of high-risk artificial intelligence systems; and South Koreas AI Basic Act, the countrys first major artificial intelligence legislation, which will go into effect on January 1, 2026, imposes obligations on developers and deployers of high impact and generative AI Technology. These regulations may impose onerous obligations related to our development, offering, and use of AI Technology and expose us to an increased risk of regulatory enforcement and litigation. If we cannot use AI Technology or that use is restricted, our business may be less efficient, or we may be at a competitive disadvantage. 42 Table of Contents In particular, there is significant uncertainty surrounding the applications of intellectual property and privacy laws to AI Technology. Intellectual property ownership and rights (including copyright) and the remedies of rights owners surrounding the use and development of AI Technology have not been fully addressed by courts or other federal or state laws or regulations, and our use of AI Technology or adoption of AI Technology into our products and services may result in disputes with respect to ownership of intellectual property, or exposure to claims of copyright or other intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. In addition, our AI Technology may involve the processing of personal and other sensitive data and may be subject to laws, policies, legal obligations, and contractual requirements related to privacy, data protection, and information security. Certain privacy laws extend rights to consumers (such as the right to obtain consent or delete certain personal data) and regulate automated decision making. An alleged or actual failure to meet these obligations may lead to regulatory investigations and fines or penalties, require us to change our business practices or retrain our algorithms, or prevent or limit our use of AI Technology. For example, the FTC has required other companies to turn over or disgorge valuable insights or trainings generated through the use of AI Technology where the FTC determined such companies violated privacy and consumer protection laws. We may also be held liable for intellectual property, privacy, or other legal violations of third-party AI Technology (including outputs from AI Technology) that we use, and we may not have full recourse for any damages that we suffer (for example, our use of third-party AI Technology may be subject to limitations of liability or provide no liability coverage (e.g., free or open-source technology)). We could also face claims alleging open-source software or other license terms apply with respect to outputs from AI Technology that we believed to be available for use, and not subject to license terms or other third-party proprietary rights. The algorithms or training methodologies used in the AI Technology we use or offer may be flawed. Data sets may be overly broad, insufficient, or contain inappropriately biased information. Our generative AI Technology may also generate outputs that are inaccurate, misleading, harmful, offensive, or otherwise flawed. This may happen if the inputs that the model relied on were inaccurate, incomplete, or flawed (including if a bad actor poisons the model with bad inputs or logic), or if the logic of the algorithm is flawed (a so-called hallucination). Such outputs may also contain copyrighted or other protected material. Our customers or others may rely on or use such outputs to their detriment, or it may lead to adverse outcomes, which may expose us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, and/or legal liability. Further, unauthorized use or misuse of generative AI Technology by our employees or others who have access to our systems may result in disclosure of confidential company and customer data, reputational harm, privacy law violations and legal liability. Finally, if we enable or offer services or technologies that draw scrutiny or controversy, if our use of AI Technology becomes controversial or causes ethical issues, or if we are perceived to overstate the capabilities or benefits of our products, services, or technologies that employ AI Technology, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, and/or legal liability. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to the FCPA, U.S. domestic bribery laws, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and other anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct business. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we increase our international sales, including in China, and sales to the public sector, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market or resell our products and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We may be held responsible for the actions of our employees, agents, customers, partners, suppliers and other third parties with which we do business if such actions violate our policies and applicable law. As we expand internationally and into the public sector market, our risks under these laws may increase. 43 Table of Contents Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, litigation, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal proceeding, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from global regulations, our investors, customers, and employees with respect to ESG may impact our reputation and business. Companies across many industries are facing increasing scrutiny related to their environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices and reporting, both in the United States and internationally. For example, new domestic and international laws and regulations relating to ESG matters, including environmental sustainability and climate change and human capital management, are under consideration or being adopted, which may include specific, target-driven disclosure requirements or obligations. Our response to increased ESG disclosure requirements may require additional investments and implementation of new practices and reporting processes, all entailing additional compliance risk and cost. To the extent we share information about our ESG practices, we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of such disclosures. In addition, we may communicate ESG goals or initiatives from time to time, which can be costly to achieve and difficult to implement. There is no assurance that we will achieve any of these goals, that our initiatives will achieve their intended outcome, and our ability to implement these ESG-related initiatives or achieve ESG-related goals may be dependent on external factors outside our control. At the same time, anti-ESG sentiment has gained momentum across the United States, and both the federal and state governments have enacted or proposed anti-ESG policies or legislation or have issued related legal opinions. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Courts ruling striking down race-based affirmative action in higher education has increased scrutiny of private sector employment practices and activist groups and state attorneys general have begun to analogize the outcome of that case to private employment matters, asserting that certain corporate practices, such as diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI), are discriminatory and unlawful. Such anti-ESG and anti-DEI related policies, legislation, initiatives and scrutiny could expose any ESG, DEI or other practices we adopt to the risk of litigation, antitrust investigations or challenges by federal or state authorities, result in injunctions, penalties, and reputational harm. Further, we may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, or other stakeholders who disagree with our actual or perceived positions, or with our lack of position on social, environmental, governance, political, public policy, economic, geopolitical, or other sensitive issues. Any perceived lack of transparency about these matters could harm our brand and reputation, our employees engagement and retention, and the willingness of our customers and partners to do business with us. Both advocates and opponents to ESG-related matters are increasingly resorting to a range of activism forms, including media campaigns and litigation, to advance their perspectives. To the extent we are subject to such activism, it may require us to incur costs or otherwise adversely impact our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. Our platform is subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, and we incorporate encryption technology into our platform. This encryption technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption classification request or self-classification report. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale can be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations administered by various U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, that prohibit the sale or supply of most products and services to embargoed jurisdictions or sanctioned parties. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control regulations can result in significant fines or penalties and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers. 44 Table of Contents If our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export, or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm, as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our platform in those countries. Changes in our platform or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our platform in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from using our platform globally, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. From time to time, various governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions, or related legislation, increased export and import controls, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or our decreased ability to export or sell our platform to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell our platform would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international operations may subject us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are expanding our international operations to better support our growth into international markets. Our corporate structure and associated transfer pricing policies contemplate future growth in international markets and consider the functions, risks, and assets of the various entities involved in intercompany transactions. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions depends on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies, and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for pricing intercompany transactions pursuant to our intercompany arrangements or disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a challenge or disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our financial statements could fail to reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws, regulations, or rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Legislation informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the Inflation Reduction Act (Inflation Act) made many significant changes to U.S. tax laws. For example, the Inflation Act includes provisions that will impact the U.S. federal income taxation of certain corporations, including a minimum tax equal to 15% of the adjusted financial statement income of certain large corporations, as well as a 1% excise tax applicable to corporations traded on an established securities market (which includes the New York Stock Exchange) on the fair market value of certain stock repurchases in excess of the fair market value of stock issuances in the same taxable year. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock through a stock repurchase program. In August 2024, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.5 billion of our outstanding common stock under the stock purchase program and extended the expiration date of the stock repurchase program from March 2025 to March 2027. Repurchases of our common stock under current or future stock repurchase programs could result in an excise tax liability, and we are continuing to evaluate the impact that such excise tax liability, if any, may have on our aggregate tax liability. Future guidance from the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities with respect to such legislation may affect us, and certain aspects thereof could be repealed or modified in future legislation. In addition, our tax obligations and effective tax rate in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business could increase, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project that is being led by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and other initiatives led by the OECD or the European Commission. 45 Table of Contents Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, these types of changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, the amount of taxes imposed on our business, and our compliance costs, and harm our financial position. Such changes may also apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our financial statements. We continue to monitor the impact of new global and U.S. legislation on our effective tax rate. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. We have incurred substantial losses during our history, do not expect to become profitable in the near future, and may never achieve profitability. Unused U.S. federal net operating losses (NOLs) for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, may be carried forward to offset future taxable income, if any, until such unused NOLs expire. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, U.S. federal NOLs arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, can be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such U.S. federal NOLs in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020, is limited to 80% of such years taxable income. At the state level, there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. As of January 31, 2025, we had U.S. federal, state, and foreign NOL carryforwards of $6.2 billion, $6.0 billion, and $178.0 million, respectively. Of the $6.2 billion U.S. federal NOL carryforwards, $6.1 billion may be carried forward indefinitely with utilization limited to 80% of taxable income, and the remaining $0.1 billion will begin to expire in 2032. The state NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2026. Of the $178.0 million foreign NOL carryforwards, $165.2 million may be carried forward indefinitely, and the remaining $12.8 million will begin to expire in 2027. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and corresponding provisions of state law, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, which is generally defined as one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increasing their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards to offset its post-change income or taxes may be limited. It is possible that we have experienced or may experience ownership changes as a result of shifts in our stock ownership, some of which may be outside of our control. This could limit the amount of NOLs that we can utilize annually to offset future taxable income or tax liabilities. Subsequent ownership changes and changes to the U.S. tax rules in respect of the utilization of NOLs may further affect the limitation in future years. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could increase due to several factors, including: changes in the relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changes in tax laws, tax treaties, and regulations or the interpretation of them; changes to our assessment about our ability to realize our deferred tax assets that are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic and political environments in which we do business; the outcome of current and future tax audits, examinations, or administrative appeals; and the effects of acquisitions, divestitures, and restructurings. Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations. 46 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; variance in our actual or projected financial performance from expectations of securities analysts and investors; changes in the pricing or consumption of our platform; updates to our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our business; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, investments, or new offerings; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; significant data breaches, disruptions to, or other incidents involving our platform or our customers; our involvement in litigation or governmental or regulatory investigations or inquiries and the development and outcome of such litigation, investigations, or inquiries; changes in senior management or key personnel; fluctuations in company valuations, particularly valuations of high-growth or cloud companies, perceived to be comparable to us; the trading volume of our common stock; purchase and sale of our common stock by our insiders or our other stockholders; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; our issuance or repurchase of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for share of our common stock and any derivative transactions relating to such securities; and general political, social, economic, and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions, such as recessions, inflation, interest rate changes, tariffs and trade wars, or international currency fluctuations, may also negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We have been, and may be in the future, the target of this type of litigation, which could result in substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. We are currently subject to a securities class action lawsuit in federal court. See the section titled Legal Proceedings for more information. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. The conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Upon conversion of the Notes, we have the option to settle the obligation in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of both. If we elect to settle our conversion obligation in shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 47 Table of Contents The capped call transactions may affect the value of the Notes and the market price of our common stock. We entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions relating to each series of Notes with some of the initial purchasers (or their affiliates) and certain other financial institutions (collectively, the option counterparties). The capped call transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the relevant series of Notes or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes, with such reduction or offset subject to a cap. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, the option counterparties entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchased shares of our common stock concurrently with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Notes. They may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling shares of our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes, and they are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or, to the extent we exercise the relevant election under the capped call transactions, following any repurchase or redemption of the Notes, in each case as described in the Indentures. This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Notes. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Past global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions and could adversely affect the option counterparties performance under the capped call transactions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under the capped call transactions with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer more dilution, the effect of which would not be compensated for, than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our equity incentive plans, or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We expect to issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders, including issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. We expect to continue to grant equity awards to employees, non-employee directors, and consultants under our equity incentive plans. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we have and may continue to acquire or make investments in companies, products, or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline. We may not realize the anticipated long-term stockholder value of our stock repurchase program, and any failure to repurchase our common stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our stock price. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock through a stock repurchase program. In August 2024, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.5 billion of our outstanding common stock under the stock repurchase program and extended the expiration date of the stock repurchase program from March 2025 to March 2027. Repurchases may be effected, from time to time, either on the open market (including via pre-set trading plans), in privately negotiated transactions, or through other transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be determined by management based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. Any failure to repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us, or our stock price. 48 Table of Contents The existence of our stock repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it otherwise would be and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchase shares, and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of the program. Repurchasing our common stock reduces the amount of cash we have available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or investments, other business opportunities, and other general corporate projects, and we may fail to realize the anticipated long-term stockholder value of any stock repurchase program. In addition, the Inflation Act imposes an excise tax of 1% on certain corporate stock repurchases. If securities or industry analysts publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, the market price or trading volume of our common stock could decline. The market price and trading volume of our common stock is heavily influenced by the way analysts interpret our financial information and other disclosures. We do not have control over these analysts. If securities analysts or industry analysts cease coverage of us, our stock price would be negatively affected. If securities or industry analysts downgrade our common stock or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. Further, investors and analysts may not understand how our consumption-based business model differs from a subscription-based business model. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, publish inaccurate research about our business, or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price to decline and could decrease the trading volume of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, the ability of the holders of our common stock to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, holders of our common stock may need to rely on sales of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. We incur significant costs operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of managements time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If, notwithstanding our efforts, we fail to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and our business may be harmed. Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs. 49 Table of Contents As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Section 404), to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts. We have established an internal audit group, and as we continue to grow, we expect to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and update the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, the Indentures, and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual or special meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that our directors may only be removed for cause; provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding shares of voting stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. 50 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that holders of our common stock would receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in an acquisition. In addition, certain provisions in the Indentures may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, the Indentures will require us, except as described therein, to repurchase the Notes of the relevant series for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indentures) and, in certain circumstances, to increase the relevant conversion rate for a holder that converts its Notes of the relevant series in connection with a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the Indentures). A takeover of us may trigger the requirement that we repurchase the relevant series of Notes and/or increase the relevant conversion rate, which could make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in such takeover. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of us that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, to the extent enforceable, the federal district courts of the United States of America as the exclusive forums for certain disputes between us and our stockholders, which will restrict our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to our company or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us arising out of or pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws, any action as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision does not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. In addition, investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could seriously harm our business. 51 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY Risk Management and Strategy We have implemented and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to identify, assess, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats to (i) our information systems and data, which include critical computer networks, third-party hosted services, communications systems, hardware and software, and (ii) critical data, including our intellectual property, confidential information that is proprietary, strategic or competitive in nature, and our customers data. Our cybersecurity program includes an information security policy, access management policies, an open-source policy, security incident response processes, and a supply chain policy, in addition to the secure design and vendor management programs described below. For a description of the risks from cybersecurity threats that may materially affect us, see the risk factor titled If we, our customers, or third-party service providers experience an actual or perceived security breach or unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers data, our data, or our platform, our platform may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our platform may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our information systems generally fall into two categories: our platform and our corporate systems. Each category has dedicated teams and processes in place to address cybersecurity risk. Our product security team, which reports into our SVP, Engineering and Support, works alongside our product and engineering teams to address how security is designed into our platform. Our corporate security team, which reports to our Chief Information Security Officer, is responsible for the secure design of our corporate systems. In addition, our Chief Information Security Officer manages a global security team that performs certain cybersecurity functions for both our platform and corporate systems, including certification management, incident response, threat detection, analytics, and offensive security (such as simulations and penetration tests). We actively monitor our threat environment for cybersecurity threats using various methods, including automated detection tools, scans of the threat environment, investigations of potential threats we discover or that are reported to us, and reports and services that identify threats. We monitor our information systems for vulnerabilities using internal and third-party penetration testing, intelligence feeds, and vulnerability databases. We also have a bug bounty program. Our security teams work with management to prioritize our risk management processes and mitigate cybersecurity threats, including those that may materially impact our business. Our assessment and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats is a key risk area within our enterprise risk management program. Our Chief Information Security Officer and SVP, Engineering and Support are responsible for management of cybersecurity risk under our enterprise risk management program, and senior management and the audit committee of our board of directors receive reports on the key risks and the effectiveness of our management of such enterprise risks. In addition, key cybersecurity risks are assessed as part of our internal audit program. We have completed various security audits and certifications, including SOC 2 Type II, SOC 1 Type II, PCI-DSS, HITRUST, FedRAMP High, and ISO/IEC 27001. We also employ a shared responsibility cybersecurity model where our customers are responsible for using and configuring our platform in a manner that meets applicable cybersecurity standards and requirements. As part of this shared responsibility cybersecurity model, customers have sole responsibility for creating and securing their access credentials for our platform. 52 Table of Contents Our platform and corporate systems involve the use of third-party technology or service providers, or vendors, such as hosting platforms, open-source software, and application providers. We also use vendors to assist us from time to time to identify, assess, and manage material risks from cybersecurity threats to our platform and corporate systems, including consulting firms, external legal counsel, incident response vendors, penetration test providers, auditors, monitoring technology, and cybersecurity data providers. We have a vendor management program under which our corporate security, product security, and legal teams evaluate cybersecurity risks presented by our use of vendors. Depending on the nature of the technology or services provided, the sensitivity of the information systems and data at issue, and the identity of the vendor, our vendor management process may involve different levels of assessment designed to help identify cybersecurity risks. For vendors that may pose higher risks, this process includes a vendor security questionnaire, an evaluation of the vendors security program and security documentation, and the imposition of contractual obligations related to cybersecurity on the vendor. All vendors are required to undergo this review, which is in addition to the applicable security reviews that may be conducted by our product security and corporate security teams described above. Governance Our board of directors has formed a cybersecurity committee of the board to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibility with respect to the management of cybersecurity risks related to our products and services as well as our information technology and network systems. The responsibilities of the cybersecurity committee include overseeing our implementation and maintenance of cybersecurity measures, data governance, compliance with applicable information security laws, and overseeing disclosure controls relating to cybersecurity.The cybersecurity committee receives reports from management concerning our significant cybersecurity threats and risk and the processes we have implemented to address them and has access to various reports, summaries or presentations related to cybersecurity threats, risk, and mitigation. In addition, our audit committee has oversight responsibility over our internal financial controls and our enterprise risk management program. Finally, management periodically provides cybersecurity briefings to the entire board of directors. The members of management who are primarily responsible for assessing and managing our material risks from cybersecurity threats are our Chief Information Security Officer and our SVP, Engineering and Support.Our Chief Information Security Officer joined Snowflake in 2023 and previously served in various cybersecurity roles for over 12 years across multiple technology sectors, including manufacturing, software, and services. Our SVP, Engineering and Support joined Snowflake as VP of AI Engineering in 2023 in connection with our acquisition of Neeva, where he served as the head of engineering and, prior to that, he served in various roles at Google, including as VP Engineering in various technical leadership roles. Each of our Chief Information Security Officer and SVP, Engineering and Support is responsible for hiring appropriate personnel, integrating cybersecurity risk considerations into our overall risk management strategy, communicating key priorities to relevant personnel, approving budgets, helping prepare for cybersecurity incidents, approving cybersecurity processes, and reviewing security assessments and other security-related reports. Our cybersecurity incident response processes are designed to escalate certain cybersecurity incidents to management depending on the circumstances, including the individuals named above, who work with our incident response team to help us mitigate and remediate cybersecurity incidents of which they are notified. In addition, our security incident response plan provides for reporting certain cybersecurity incidents to the cybersecurity committee of the board. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We are a Delaware corporation with a globally distributed workforce. We recruit and hire employees in jurisdictions around the world based on a range of factors, including the available talent pool, the type of work being performed, the relative cost of labor, regulatory requirements and costs, and other considerations. The majority of our workforce began working remotely in April 2020 and although some of our employees continue to work remotely following the COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of our workforce has returned to physical offices. We currently lease offices in the United States, including in Atlanta, Georgia; Bellevue, Washington; Boston, Massachusetts; Bozeman, Montana; Denver, Colorado; Dublin, California; San Mateo, California; and Washington, D.C. We also have offices in multiple locations in Canada, Europe, and the APJ and EMEA regions. In November 2024, we entered into an agreement for a new office facility located in Menlo Park, California. During the three months ending April 30, 2025, we started the process of exiting the San Mateo office and relocating to the new Menlo Park office, which is expected to be completed by April 2025. All of our offices are leased, and we do not own any real property. While we believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our foreseeable needs, we intend to expand our facilities in the future as we continue to add employees around the world. We believe that suitable additional or alternative space will be available to accommodate our future growth. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we have been and will continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. We have received, and may in the future continue to receive, claims from third parties asserting, among other things, infringement of their intellectual property rights. On February 29, 2024, a stockholder class action lawsuit was filed against us, our former Chief Executive Officer, and our Chief Financial Officer in the United States District Court in the Northern District of California, alleging violations under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys fees, expert fees, and other costs. On October 28, 2024, an amended complaint was filed by the lead plaintiff. On December 23, 2024, we filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. On January 29, 2025, the lead plaintiff informed us that it would seek leave to file a second amended complaint rather than respond to the motion to dismiss. On February 7, 2025, the Court ordered the lead plaintiff to file a second amended complaint by April 7, 2025. We plan to file a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint on or before the responsive pleading deadline. In addition, since the filing of the class action lawsuit, four additional complaints containing securities derivative claims have been filed against us and certain of our directors and executive officers alleging similar violations. The derivative claims have been stayed pending resolution of the anticipated motion to dismiss the class action lawsuit. We and the other defendants intend to vigorously defend against the claims in these actions. On June 13, 2024, a class action was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Montana against us alleging that we failed to take reasonable measures to secure systems that contained consumer data, thereby allowing threat actors to access and exfiltrate personally identifiable information. In the months that followed, numerous additional class actions making the same or similar allegations were filed in the United States and Canada against us and/or our customers whose consumer or employee data was exfiltrated. Among other claims, the complaints assert common law claims for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of implied contract, and unjust enrichment, as well as statutory claims, and seek an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys fees and costs, as well as injunctive relief. On October 4, 2024, an order was issued by the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation combining the class actions filed in the United States into a multidistrict litigation in the District of Montana. On February 3, 2025, plaintiffs filed their representative complaint. On March 11, 2025, plaintiffs were granted up to and including March 21, 2025 to file an amended representative complaint to address pleading deficiencies identified by defendants. Defendants, including us, are required to respond, which response may include moving to dismiss or compel arbitration, within 35 days of the filing of any amended representative complaint. In addition to the multidistrict litigation, two class actions are pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California and the Supreme Court of British Columbia, respectively. We intend to vigorously defend against the claims in these actions. 54 Table of Contents Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves, our partners, and our customers by determining the scope, enforceability, and validity of third-party proprietary rights, or to establish our proprietary rights. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. See Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. 55 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, under the symbol SNOW. Holders of Record As of March 7, 2025, there were 160 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock. The actual number of holders of our Class A common stock is greater than the number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers or other nominees. The number of holders of record presented here also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities On November 25, 2024, we issued approximately 0.9 million shares of our Class A common stock (Equity Consideration) to certain securityholders of Datavolo, Inc. (Datavolo), pursuant to the terms of an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization (Merger Agreement), dated as of November 19, 2024, as partial consideration for our acquisition of all of the outstanding capital stock and certain other securities of Datavolo. A portion of the Equity Consideration that was issued to continuing Datavolo employees is subject to forfeiture upon the occurrence of certain events. See Note 12, Equity, in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. We issued the shares in reliance on an exemption from registration provided for under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and/or Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated thereunder as a transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering. We relied on this exemption from registration based in part on the representations made by the applicable Datavolo securityholders. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There were no shares repurchased under our authorized stock repurchase program during the three months ended January 31, 2025. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act. The graph below shows the cumulative total return to our stockholders between September 16, 2020 (the date that our Class A common stock commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange) through January 31, 2025 in comparison to the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index. The graph assumes (i) that $100 was invested in each of our Class A common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index at their respective closing prices on September 16, 2020 and (ii) reinvestment of gross dividends. The stock price performance shown in the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future stock price performance. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is included in the section titled Key Business Metrics. This non-GAAP financial measure is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, comparable GAAP financial measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our presentation of this non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. We encourage investors to carefully consider our results under GAAP, as well as our supplemental non-GAAP information and the GAAP-to-non-GAAP reconciliation included in the section titled Key Business MetricsFree Cash Flow, to more fully understand our business. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this report to Snowflake, the Company, we, our, us, or similar terms refer to Snowflake Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, all references in this report to our common stock refer to our Class A common stock. 56 Table of Contents A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023 can be found in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 filed with the SEC on March 26, 2024. Overview We believe that a cloud computing platform that puts data and artificial intelligence (AI) at its core will offer great benefits to organizations by allowing them to realize the value of the data that powers their businesses. By offering rich primitives for data and applications, we believe that we can create a data connected world where organizations have seamless access to explore, share, and unlock the value of data. To realize this vision, we deliver the AI Data Cloud, a network where Snowflake customers, partners, developers, data providers, and data consumers can break down data silos and derive value from a growing number of data sets in secure, governed, and compliant ways. Our platform is the innovative technology that powers the AI Data Cloud, enabling customers to consolidate data into a single source of truth to drive meaningful insights, apply AI to solve business problems, build data applications, and share data and data products. We provide our platform through a customer-centric, consumption-based business model, only charging customers for the resources they use. Our cloud-native architecture includes three independently scalable but logically integrated layers across compute, storage, and cloud services. The compute layer provides dedicated resources to enable users to simultaneously access common data sets for many use cases with minimal latency. The storage layer ingests massive amounts and varieties of structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data to create a unified data record. The cloud services layer intelligently optimizes each use cases performance requirements with no administration. This architecture is built on three major public clouds across 47 regional deployments around the world. These deployments are generally interconnected to deliver the AI Data Cloud, enabling a consistent, global user experience. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from fees charged to our customers based on the compute, storage, and data transfer resources consumed on our platform. Customers are allowed to select compute, storage, and data transfer resources separately, at their discretion. For compute resources, consumption is based on the type of compute resource used and the duration of use or, for some features, the volume of data processed. For storage resources, consumption for a given customer is based on the average terabytes per month of all of such customers data stored in our platform. For data transfer resources, consumption is based on terabytes of data transferred, the public cloud provider used, and the region to and from which the transfer is executed. Our customers typically enter into capacity arrangements with a term of one to four years, or consume our platform under on-demand arrangements in which we charge for use of our platform monthly in arrears. Consumption for most customers accelerates from the beginning of their usage to the end of their contract terms and often exceeds their initial capacity commitment amounts. When this occurs, our customers have the option to amend their existing agreement with us to purchase additional capacity or request early renewals. When a customers consumption during the contract term does not exceed its capacity commitment amount, it may have the option to roll over any unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity. For these reasons, we believe our deferred revenue is not a meaningful indicator of future revenue that will be recognized in any given time period. Our go-to-market strategy is focused on acquiring new customers and driving increased use of our platform for existing customers. We primarily focus our selling efforts on large organizations and primarily sell our platform through a direct sales force, which targets technical and business leaders who are adopting a cloud strategy and leveraging data to improve their business performance. Our sales force is comprised of sales development, inside sales, and field sales personnel and is segmented by the industry, size, and region of prospective customers. Once our platform has been adopted, we focus on increasing the migration of additional customer workloads to our platform to drive increased consumption, as evidenced by our net revenue retention rate of 126% and 131% as of January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. See the section titled Key Business Metrics for a definition of net revenue retention rate. 57 Table of Contents Our platform is used globally by organizations of all sizes across a broad range of industries. As of January 31, 2025, we had 11,159 total customers, increasing from 9,384 customers as of January 31, 2024. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our total customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Our platform has been adopted by many of the worlds largest organizations that view Snowflake as a key strategic partner in their cloud and data transformation initiatives. As of January 31, 2025, our customers included 745 of the Forbes Global 2000, based on the 2024 Forbes Global 2000 list, and those customers contributed approximately 42% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is subject to adjustments for annual updates to the Global 2000 list by Forbes, as well as acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity with respect to such customers, and we present our Forbes Global 2000 customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on January 31. For example, references to fiscal 2025 refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions Our business and financial condition have been, and may continue to be, impacted by adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, high interest rates, and fluctuations or volatility in capital markets or foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions have caused, and may continue to cause, customers to rationalize budgets, prioritize cash flow management, including through shortened contract duration, and optimize consumption, including by reducing storage through shorter data retention policies. We are continuing to monitor the actual and potential effects of general macroeconomic conditions across our business. For additional details, see the section titled Risk Factors. Convertible Senior Notes In September 2024, we completed a private offering of $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2027 (2027 Notes) and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2029 (2029 Notes, and together with the 2027 Notes, the Notes). The total proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $2.27 billion, net of $31.2 million of debt issuance costs. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering to (i) pay the $195.5 million cost of the privately negotiated capped call transactions relating to each series of the Notes (Capped Calls) and (ii) repurchase $399.6 million of our common stock from purchasers of the Notes in the offering in privately negotiated transactions entered into in connection with the Notes offering at a purchase price of $112.50 per share. See Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. Stock Repurchase Program In February 2023, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. In August 2024, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.5 billion of our outstanding common stock and extended the expiration date of the stock repurchase program from March 2025 to March 2027. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we repurchased 14.8 million shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $1.9 billion, excluding transaction costs associated with the repurchases, at a weighted-average price of $130.87 per share. All repurchases were made in open market transactions, except for the 3.6 million shares of our outstanding common stock that were repurchased for $399.6 million from purchasers of the Notes in the offering in privately negotiated transactions entered into in connection with the Notes offering at a purchase price of $112.50 per share. As of January 31, 2025, $2.0 billion remained available for future repurchases under the stock repurchase program (exclusive of transaction costs associated with repurchases). See Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, and Note 12, Equity, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be determined by management based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. 58 Table of Contents Business Combination On November 25, 2024, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Datavolo, Inc. (Datavolo), a privately-held company that built a dataflow infrastructure to support the creation, management, and observability of multimodal data pipelines for enterprise AI. The acquisition date fair value of the preliminary purchase consideration was $106.8 million, which was comprised of 0.5 million shares of our common stock valued at $87.7 million as of the acquisition date and $19.1 million in cash. In addition, we issued to certain of Datavolos employees a total of 0.4 million shares of our common stock in exchange for a portion of their Datavolo stock. These shares are subject to vesting agreements pursuant to which the shares will vest over four years, subject to each of these employees continued employment with us or our affiliates. The $64.6 million fair value of these shares is accounted for as post-combination stock-based compensation over the requisite service period of four years. The results of operations of this business combination have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. See Note 7, Business Combinations, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details regarding this business combination. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Adoption of our Platform and Expansion of the AI Data Cloud Our future success depends in large part on the market adoption of our platform, including new product functionality, such as, Snowpark and our artificial intelligence and machine learning technology (AI Technology), such as Snowflake Cortex AI. While we see growing demand for our platform, particularly from large enterprises, many of these organizations have invested substantial technical, financial, and personnel resources in their existing database products or big data offerings. In addition, customers use of our AI Technology is often dependent on their ability to meet evolving regulatory standards, successfully complete internal compliance reviews, and enter into mutually acceptable contractual terms. While this makes it difficult to predict customer adoption rates and future demand, we believe that the benefits of our platform put us in a strong position to capture the significant market opportunity ahead. Our platform powers the AI Data Cloud, a network of data providers, data consumers, and data application developers that enables our customers to securely share, monetize, and acquire live data sets and data products. The AI Data Cloud includes access to the Snowflake Marketplace, through which customers can access or acquire third-party data sets, data applications, and other data products. Our future growth is increasingly dependent on our ability to increase consumption of our platform by building and expanding the AI Data Cloud. Expanding Within our Existing Customer Base Our large base of customers represents a significant opportunity for further consumption of our platform. While we have seen an increase in the number of customers that have contributed more than $1 million in product revenue in the trailing 12 months, we believe that there is a substantial opportunity to continue growing these customers further, as well as continuing to expand the usage of our platform within our other existing customers. We plan to continue investing to encourage increased consumption and adoption of new use cases among our existing customers, particularly large enterprises. Once deployed, our customers often expand their use of our platform more broadly within the enterprise and across their ecosystem of customers and partners as they migrate more data to the public cloud, identify new use cases, and realize the benefits of our platform and the AI Data Cloud. However, because we generally recognize product revenue on consumption and not ratably over the term of the contract, we do not have visibility into the timing of revenue recognition from any particular customer. In addition, many customers are attempting to rationalize budgets, prioritize cash flow management, and optimize consumption amidst macroeconomic uncertainty. In any given period, there is a risk that customer consumption of our platform will be slower than we expect, which may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. 59 Table of Contents New software releases or hardware improvements, like better storage compression, cloud infrastructure processor improvements, and compute optimization, may make our platform more efficient, enabling customers to consume fewer compute, storage, and data transfer resources to accomplish the same workloads. In addition, new product features allow customers to use our platform for compute services without requiring storage. To the extent these improvements do not result in an offsetting increase in new workloads, we may experience lower revenue. Our ability to increase usage of our platform by, and sell additional contracted capacity to, existing customers, and, in particular, large enterprise customers, will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our platform, competition, pricing, macroeconomic conditions, overall changes in our customers spending levels, customers attempts to optimize their consumption, our customers confidence in the security of our platform, our ability to maintain our reputation as a trustworthy vendor, the effectiveness of our and our partners efforts to help our customers realize the benefits of our platform, and the extent to which customers migrate new workloads to our platform over time, including data science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning workloads. Acquiring New Customers We believe there is a substantial opportunity to further grow our customer base by continuing to make significant investments in sales and marketing and brand awareness. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including the productivity of our sales organization, competitive dynamics in our target markets, changes in our customers spending and platform consumption in response to market uncertainty, our ability to mitigate reputational damage following cybersecurity threat activity directed at our customers, and our ability to build and maintain partner relationships, including with global system integrators, resellers, technology partners, and third-party providers of native applications on the Snowflake Marketplace. While our platform is built for organizations of all sizes, we focus our selling efforts on large enterprise customers, customers with vast amounts of data, and customers requiring industry-specific solutions. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth if we are unable to attract, hire, develop, integrate, and retain talented and effective sales personnel; if our sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time and maintain productivity; or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. Investing in Growth and Scaling our Business We are focused on our long-term revenue potential and believe our market opportunity is large. We will continue to invest significantly in research and development to improve our platform, including in the areas of data science and AI Technology. In addition, we are focused on expanding our business both domestically and internationally. As part of these efforts, we are investing in meeting the needs of organizations in geographies and government and regulated industries that have heightened requirements, including with respect to data localization, privacy, and security. We intend to continue to invest heavily to grow our business to take advantage of our expansive market opportunity, while also focusing on cash flow and long-term profitability. Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, and assess operational efficiencies. The calculation of the key business metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. The following tables present a summary of key business metrics, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, for the periods presented: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Product revenue (in millions) $ 3,462.4 $ 2,666.8 $ 1,938.8 Net cash provided by operating activities (in millions)(1) $ 959.8 $ 848.1 $ 545.6 Free cash flow (non-GAAP) (in millions)(2)(3) $ 884.1 $ 778.9 $ 496.5 60 Table of Contents January 31, 2025 January 31, 2024 January 31, 2023 Net revenue retention rate(4) 126 % 131 % 158 % Customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million(4) 580 455 329 Forbes Global 2000 customers(4) 745 710 655 Remaining performance obligations (in millions)(5) $ 6,867.5 $ 5,174.7 $ 3,660.5 ________________ (1)Net cash provided by operating activities is not a key business metric but is included in this table as the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to free cash flow. (2)Free cash flow for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023 included the effect of $57.5 million, $31.3 million, and $23.9 million, respectively, in the net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions. See the section titled Free Cash Flow for a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to free cash flow. (3)Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were $489.1 million, $380.8 million, and $184.6 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively, are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of free cash flow. (4)Historical numbers for (i) net revenue retention rate, (ii) customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million, and (iii) Forbes Global 2000 customers reflect any adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. In addition, our Forbes Global 2000 customer count reflects adjustments for annual updates to the Forbes Global 2000 list by Forbes. (5)As of January 31, 2025, our remaining performance obligations were approximately $6.9 billion, of which we expect approximately 48% to be recognized as revenue in the twelve months ending January 31, 2026 based on historical customer consumption patterns. The weighted-average remaining life of our capacity contracts was 2.4 years as of January 31, 2025. However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition are generally dependent upon customers future consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion and can extend beyond the original contract term in cases where customers are permitted to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. In addition, our historical customer consumption patterns are not necessarily indicative of future results. Product Revenue Product revenue is a key metric for us because we recognize revenue based on platform consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion, and not based on the amount and duration of contract terms. Product revenue is primarily derived from the consumption of compute, storage, and data transfer resources by customers on our platform. Customers have the flexibility to consume more than their contracted capacity during the contract term and may have the ability to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. Our consumption-based business model distinguishes us from subscription-based software companies that generally recognize revenue ratably over the contract term and may not permit rollover. Because customers have flexibility in the timing of their consumption, which can exceed their contracted capacity or extend beyond the original contract term in many cases, the amount of product revenue recognized in a given period is an important indicator of customer satisfaction and the value derived from our platform. While customer use of our platform in any period is not necessarily indicative of future use, we estimate future revenue using predictive models based on customers historical usage to plan and determine financial forecasts. Product revenue excludes our professional services and other revenue, which has been less than 10% of revenue for each of the periods presented. 61 Table of Contents Net Revenue Retention Rate We believe the growth in use of our platform by our existing customers is an important measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. We monitor our dollar-based net revenue retention rate to measure this growth. To calculate this metric, we first specify a measurement period consisting of the trailing two years from our current period end. Next, we define as our measurement cohort the population of customers under capacity contracts that used our platform at any point in the first month of the first year of the measurement period. The cohorts used to calculate net revenue retention rate include end-customers under a reseller arrangement. We then calculate our net revenue retention rate as the quotient obtained by dividing our product revenue from this cohort in the second year of the measurement period by our product revenue from this cohort in the first year of the measurement period. Any customer in the cohort that did not use our platform in the second year remains in the calculation and contributes zero product revenue in the second year. Our net revenue retention rate is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our net revenue retention rate for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Since we will continue to attribute the historical product revenue to the consolidated contract, consolidation of capacity contracts within a customers organization typically will not impact our net revenue retention rate unless one of those customers was not a customer at any point in the first month of the first year of the measurement period. We expect our net revenue retention rate to decrease over the long-term as customers that have consumed our platform for an extended period of time become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and our product revenue that we use to calculate net revenue retention rate, and as their consumption growth primarily relates to existing use cases rather than new use cases. In addition, we have seen, and may continue to see, impacts on customer consumption patterns due to holidays and certain of our customers increasing their consumption of our platform at a slower pace than expected, which may negatively impact our net revenue retention rate in future periods. Customers with Trailing 12-Month Product Revenue Greater than $1 Million Large customer relationships lead to scale and operating leverage in our business model. Compared with smaller customers, large customers present a greater opportunity for us to sell additional capacity because they have larger budgets, a wider range of potential use cases, and greater potential for migrating new workloads to our platform over time. As a measure of our ability to scale with our customers and attract large enterprises to our platform, we count the number of customers under capacity arrangements that contributed more than $1 million in product revenue in the trailing 12 months. For purposes of determining our customer count, we treat each customer account, including accounts for end-customers under a reseller arrangement, that has at least one corresponding capacity contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. We do not include customers that consume our platform only under on-demand arrangements for purposes of determining our customer count. Our customer count is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity, and we present our customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. Forbes Global 2000 Customers We believe that the number of Forbes Global 2000 customers is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue trends as we focus our selling efforts on large enterprise customers and customers with vast amounts of data. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is a subset of our customer count based on the 2024 Forbes Global 2000 list. Our Forbes Global 2000 customer count is subject to adjustments for annual updates to the list by Forbes, as well as acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity with respect to such customers, and we present our Forbes Global 2000 customer count for historical periods reflecting these adjustments. 62 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities reduced by purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software development costs. Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of free cash flow. We believe information regarding free cash flow provides useful supplemental information to investors because it is an indicator of the strength and performance of our core business operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, which is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to free cash flow for the periods presented (in millions): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 959.8 $ 848.1 $ 545.6 Less: purchases of property and equipment (46.3) (35.1) (25.1) Less: capitalized internal-use software development costs (29.4) (34.1) (24.0) Free cash flow (non-GAAP)(1)(2) $ 884.1 $ 778.9 $ 496.5 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 190.6 $ 832.3 $ (597.9) Net cash used in financing activities $ (226.5) $ (854.1) $ (92.6) ________________ (1)Free cash flow for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023 included the effect of $57.5 million, $31.3 million, and $23.9 million, respectively, in the net cash paid on payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions. (2)Cash outflows for employee payroll tax items related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were $489.1 million, $380.8 million, and $184.6 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively, are included in cash flow for financing activities and, as a result, do not have an effect on the calculation of free cash flow. Historically, we have received a higher volume of orders from new and existing customers in the fourth fiscal quarter of each year. As a result, we have historically seen higher free cash flow in the first and fourth fiscal quarters of each year. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represent the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including (i) deferred revenue and (ii) non-cancelable contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. RPO excludes performance obligations from on-demand arrangements and certain time and materials contracts that are billed in arrears. Portions of RPO that are not yet invoiced and are denominated in foreign currencies are revalued into U.S. dollars each period based on the applicable period-end exchange rates. RPO is not necessarily indicative of future product revenue growth because it does not account for the timing of customers consumption or their consumption of more than their contracted capacity. Moreover, RPO is influenced by a number of factors, including the timing and size of renewals, the timing and size of purchases of additional capacity, average contract terms, seasonality, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the extent to which customers are permitted to roll over unused capacity to future periods, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity at renewal. Due to these factors, it is important to review RPO in conjunction with product revenue and other financial metrics disclosed elsewhere herein. 63 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We deliver our platform over the internet as a service. Customers choose to consume our platform under either capacity arrangements, in which they commit to a certain amount of consumption at specified prices, or under on-demand arrangements, in which we charge for use of our platform monthly in arrears. Under capacity arrangements, from which a majority of our revenue is derived, we typically bill our customers annually in advance of their consumption. However, in future periods, we expect to see an increase in capacity contracts providing for quarterly upfront billings and monthly in arrears billings as our customers increasingly want to align consumption and timing of payments. Revenue from on-demand arrangements typically relates to customers with lower usage levels or overage consumption beyond a customers contracted usage amount under a capacity contract or following the expiration of a customers capacity contract. Revenue from on-demand arrangements represented approximately 2%, 3%, and 2% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We recognize revenue as customers consume compute, storage, and data transfer resources under either of these arrangements. In limited instances, customers pay an annual deployment fee to gain access to a dedicated instance of a virtual private deployment. We recognize the deployment fee ratably over the contract term. Such deployment revenue represented less than 1% of our revenue for all periods presented. Our customer contracts for capacity typically have a term of one to four years. The weighted-average term of capacity contracts entered into during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 is approximately 2.9 years. To the extent our customers enter into such contracts and either consume our platform in excess of their capacity commitments or continue to use our platform after expiration of the contract term, they are charged for their incremental consumption. In many cases, our customer contracts permit customers to roll over any unused capacity to a subsequent order, generally upon the purchase of additional capacity. For those customers who do not have a capacity arrangement, our on-demand arrangements generally have a monthly stated contract term and can be terminated at any time by either the customer or us. We generate the substantial majority of our revenue from fees charged to our customers based on the compute, storage, and data transfer resources consumed on our platform. Customers are allowed to select compute, storage, and data transfer resources separately, at their discretion. For compute resources, consumption is based on the type of compute resource used and the duration of use or, for some features, the volume of data processed. For storage resources, consumption for a given customer is based on the average terabytes per month of all of such customers data stored in our platform. For data transfer resources, consumption is based on terabytes of data transferred, the public cloud provider used, and the region to and from which the transfer is executed. Because customers have flexibility in their consumption, and we generally recognize revenue on consumption and not ratably over the term of the contract, we do not have the visibility into the timing of revenue recognition from any particular customer contract that typical subscription-based software companies may have. As our customer base grows, we expect our ability to forecast customer consumption in the aggregate to improve. However, in any given period, there is a risk that customers will consume our platform more slowly than we expect, including in response to adverse macroeconomic conditions, which may cause fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. Our revenue also includes professional services and other revenue, which consists primarily of consulting, technical solution services, and training related to our platform. Our professional services revenue is recognized over time based on input measures, including time and materials costs incurred relative to total costs, with consideration given to output measures, such as contract deliverables, when applicable. Other revenue consists primarily of fees from customer training delivered on-site or through publicly available classes. Allocation of Overhead Costs Overhead costs that are not substantially dedicated for use by a specific functional group are allocated based on headcount. Such costs include costs associated with office facilities, depreciation of property and equipment, information technology (IT) and general recruiting related expenses and other expenses, such as software and subscription services. 64 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists of cost of product revenue and cost of professional services and other revenue. Cost of revenue also includes allocated overhead costs. Cost of product revenue. Cost of product revenue consists primarily of (i) third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, including those related to graphics processing units (GPUs), incurred in connection with our customers use of our platform and the deployment and maintenance of our platform on public clouds, including different regional deployments, and (ii) personnel-related costs associated with customer support and maintaining service availability and security of our platform, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. We periodically receive credits from third-party cloud providers that are recorded as a reduction to the third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. Cost of product revenue also includes amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and expenses associated with software and subscription services dedicated for use by our customer support team and our engineering team responsible for maintaining our platform. Cost of professional services and other revenue. Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of personnel-related costs associated with our professional services and training departments, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, amortization of an acquired intangible asset, and costs of contracted third-party partners and software tools. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our platform infrastructure and our customer support and professional services organizations to support the growth of our business. Some of these investments, including certain support costs and costs of expanding our business internationally, are incurred in advance of generating revenue, and either the failure to generate anticipated revenue or fluctuations in the timing of revenue could affect our gross margin from period to period. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation, and sales commissions. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our sales and marketing staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include sales commissions and draws paid to our sales force and certain referral fees paid to third parties, including amortization of deferred commissions. A portion of the sales commissions paid to the sales force is earned based on the level of the customers consumption of our platform, and a portion of the commissions paid to the sales force is earned upon the origination, expansion, or renewal of customer contracts. Sales commissions tied to customers consumption are expensed in the same period as they are earned. Sales commissions and referral fees earned upon the origination or expansion of customer contracts that are not commensurate with those earned upon the renewal of contracts are capitalized and then amortized over a period of benefit that we determined to be five years. Sales commissions earned upon the renewal of customer contracts, as well as sales commissions earned upon the origination or expansion of customer contracts that are commensurate with those for renewal contracts, are capitalized and then amortized over the respective weighted-average contractual term of the related contracts. Sales and marketing expenses also include advertising costs and other expenses associated with our sales, marketing and business development programs, including our user conferences, offset by proceeds from such conferences and programs. In addition, sales and marketing expenses are comprised of travel-related expenses, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our sales and marketing organizations, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and outside services contracted for sales and marketing purposes. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we grow our business. However, we expect that our sales and marketing expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. 65 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses associated with our research and development staff, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include contractor or professional services fees, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred primarily in developing our platform (including with respect to GPUs to develop AI Technology), amortization of acquired intangible assets, and software and subscription services dedicated for use by our research and development organization. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows, particularly as we incur additional costs related to continued investments in our platform. However, we expect that our research and development expenses will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. In addition, research and development expenses that qualify as internal-use software development costs are capitalized. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for our finance, legal, human resources, facilities, and administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting, and other professional services fees, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative functions, insurance, unallocated lease costs associated with unused office facilities to accommodate planned headcount growth, and other corporate expenses. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue over time, although the percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending on the timing and the extent of these expenses. In addition, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase during fiscal 2026 due to anticipated asset impairment charges upon the cease-use of our San Mateo office facility. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts related to our available-for-sale marketable debt securities, net of associated fees. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of amortization of debt issuance costs incurred in connection with the issuance of our convertible senior notes. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of (i) net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on our strategic investments in equity securities, and (ii) the effect of exchange rates on our foreign currency-denominated asset and liability balances. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and U.S. federal and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Snowflake Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and a majority-owned subsidiary in which we have a controlling financial interest. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest represents the net income (loss) of our majority-owned subsidiary attributed to noncontrolling interest using the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 66 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Revenue $ 3,626,396 $ 2,806,489 $ 2,065,659 Cost of revenue(1) 1,214,673 898,558 717,540 Gross profit 2,411,723 1,907,931 1,348,119 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 1,672,092 1,391,747 1,106,507 Research and development 1,783,379 1,287,949 788,058 General and administrative 412,262 323,008 295,821 Total operating expenses 3,867,733 3,002,704 2,190,386 Operating loss (1,456,010) (1,094,773) (842,267) Interest income 209,009 200,663 73,839 Interest expense (2,759) Other income (expense), net (35,339) 44,887 (47,565) Loss before income taxes (1,285,099) (849,223) (815,993) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 4,113 (11,233) (18,467) Net loss (1,289,212) (837,990) (797,526) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3,572) (1,893) (821) Net loss attributable to Snowflake Inc. $ (1,285,640) $ (836,097) $ (796,705) ________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation as follows (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 142,163 $ 123,363 $ 106,302 Sales and marketing 331,807 299,657 246,811 Research and development 852,027 644,928 407,524 General and administrative 153,317 100,067 100,896 Total stock-based compensation $ 1,479,314 $ 1,168,015 $ 861,533 The overall increase in stock-based compensation for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, was primarily attributable to additional equity awards granted to new and existing employees, partially offset by the effects of equity awards that became forfeited or fully vested. As of January 31, 2025, total compensation cost related to unvested awards not yet recognized was $3.5 billion, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.8 years. See Note 12, Equity, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 67 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 33 32 35 Gross profit 67 68 65 Operating expenses(1): Sales and marketing 46 50 54 Research and development 49 46 38 General and administrative 12 11 14 Total operating expenses 107 107 106 Operating loss (40) (39) (41) Interest income 6 7 3 Interest expense Other income (expense), net (1) 2 (2) Loss before income taxes (35) (30) (40) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 (1) Net loss (36) (30) (39) Less: net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest Net loss attributable to Snowflake Inc. (36%) (30%) (39%) ________________ (1)Stock-based compensation included in the table above as a percentage of revenue as follows: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Cost of revenue 4 % 4 % 5 % Sales and marketing 9 11 12 Research and development 24 23 20 General and administrative 4 4 5 Total stock-based compensation 41 % 42 % 42 % Stock-based compensation is impacted by our future hiring and retention needs, which are difficult to predict and subject to constant change. We expect that our stock-based compensation will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to issue equity awards to our new and existing employees, but will decrease as a percentage of our revenue in fiscal 2026 and continue to decrease over time as we grow. 68 Table of Contents Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 3,462,422 $ 2,666,849 30% Professional services and other 163,974 139,640 17% Total $ 3,626,396 $ 2,806,489 29% Percentage of revenue: Product 95% 95% Professional services and other 5% 5% Total 100% 100% Product revenue increased $795.6 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increased consumption of our platform by existing customers, as evidenced by our net revenue retention rate of 126% as of January 31, 2025. We had 580 customers with product revenue of greater than $1 million for the trailing 12 months ended January 31, 2025, an increase from 455 customers as of January 31, 2024. Such customers represented approximately 67% and 65% of our product revenue for the trailing 12 months ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Within these customers, we had 110 and 39 customers with product revenue of greater than $5 million and $10 million, respectively, for the trailing 12 months ended January 31, 2025. The substantial majority of our revenue was derived from existing customers under capacity arrangements, which represented approximately 97% of our revenue for each of the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024. The remainder was derived from on-demand arrangements and new customers under capacity arrangements. The preceding historical metrics reflect any adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. For purposes of determining revenue derived from (i) customers with trailing 12-month product revenue greater than $1 million, (ii) new customers, and (iii) existing customers, we treat each customer account, including accounts for end-customers under a reseller arrangement, that has at least one corresponding capacity contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. Professional services and other revenue increased $24.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, as we continued to expand our professional services organization to help our customers further realize the benefits of our platform. 69 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit (Loss), and Gross Margin Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue: Product $ 992,069 $ 701,200 41% Professional services and other 222,604 197,358 13% Total cost of revenue $ 1,214,673 $ 898,558 35% Gross profit (loss): Product $ 2,470,353 $ 1,965,649 26% Professional services and other (58,630) (57,718) 2% Total gross profit $ 2,411,723 $ 1,907,931 26% Gross margin: Product 71% 74% Professional services and other (36%) (41%) Total gross margin 67% 68% Headcount (at period end) Product 453 414 Professional services and other 631 525 Total headcount 1,084 939 Cost of product revenue increased $290.9 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $176.8 million in third-party cloud infrastructure expenses (including those related to GPUs), mainly as a result of increased customer consumption of our platform. Personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs also increased $45.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, as a result of increased headcount and overall costs to support the growth in our business, and increased stock-based compensation primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees. Additionally, amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs and acquired developed technology intangible assets also increased $37.5 million and $11.1 million, respectively, for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year. The remaining increase in cost of product revenue was primarily attributable to $7.7 million in costs incurred by us during fiscal 2025 in connection with a restructuring plan for a majority-owned subsidiary. Our product gross margin was 71% for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to 74% for the prior fiscal year. This decline is primarily attributable to newly launched product capabilities and features that have not yet reached economies of scale. We expect our product gross margin to fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) fluctuations in the mix and timing of customers consumption, which is inherently variable at our customers discretion, (ii) our pricing model and discounting practices, (iii) the extent of our investments in new product capabilities, features, and operations, such as investments in AI Technology and performance improvements that may make our platform or the underlying cloud infrastructure more efficient, and (iv) stock-based compensation. Cost of professional services and other revenue increased $25.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase of $12.9 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs as a result of increased headcount. The remaining increase in cost of professional services and other revenue was primarily driven by an increase of $10.9 million in costs of contracted third-party partners and software tools to support the growth in our business. Professional services and other gross margin was (36%) and (41%) for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We do not believe the year-over-year changes in professional services and other gross margins are meaningful given that our professional services and other revenue represents a small percentage of our revenue. 70 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 1,672,092 $ 1,391,747 20% Percentage of revenue 46 % 50 % Headcount (at period end) 3,310 3,008 Sales and marketing expenses increased $280.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase of $131.7 million in personnel-related costs (excluding commission expenses) and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased headcount, stock-based compensation, and overall costs to support the growth in our business. The increase in personnel-related costs included a $32.1 million increase in stock-based compensation for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees, partially offset by the effects of equity awards that became forfeited or fully vested. Expenses associated with sales commissions and draws paid to our sales force and certain referral fees paid to third parties, including amortization of deferred commissions, also increased $86.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily attributable to sales commissions tied to customers consumption. In addition, advertising costs and other expenses associated with our sales, marketing and business development programs increased $26.0 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year. The remaining increase in sales and marketing expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to a $16.1 million increase in travel-related expenses. Research and Development Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 1,783,379 $ 1,287,949 38% Percentage of revenue 49 % 46 % Headcount (at period end) 2,257 2,002 Research and development expenses increased $495.4 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase of $389.2 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased stock-based compensation, headcount, and overall costs to support the growth in our business. The increase in personnel-related costs included a $207.1 million increase in stock-based compensation, primarily related to additional equity awards granted to existing and new employees, partially offset by the effects of equity awards that became forfeited or fully vested. Third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, incurred primarily in developing our platform (including with respect to GPUs to develop AI Technology), also increased $92.7 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year. The remaining increase in research and development expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to $11.0 million in costs incurred by us during fiscal 2025 in connection with a restructuring plan for a majority-owned subsidiary. The overall increase in research and development expenses for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was partially offset by impairment charges of $7.1 million recognized during fiscal 2024. These impairment charges were related to our capitalized internal-use software development costs previously included in construction in progress that were no longer probable of being completed. 71 Table of Contents General and Administrative Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 412,262 $ 323,008 28% Percentage of revenue 12 % 11 % Headcount (at period end) 1,183 1,055 General and administrative expenses increased $89.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs, as a result of increased stock-based compensation, headcount, and overall costs to support the growth in our business. Interest Income Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 209,009 $ 200,663 4% Interest income increased $8.3 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to higher yields on our cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale marketable debt securities. See Note 4, Cash Equivalents and Investments, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on our cash equivalents and investments. Other Income (Expense), Net Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Impairments related to strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities $ (11,578) $ (3,101) 273% Net unrealized gains (losses) on strategic investments in marketable equity securities (2,428) 15,197 (116%) Net realized gains (losses) on strategic investments in equity securities(1) (17,414) 34,713 (150%) Other (3,919) (1,922) 104% Other income (expense), net $ (35,339) $ 44,887 (179%) ________________ (1)The net realized gains on strategic investments in equity securities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 include primarily a remeasurement gain of $34.0 million recognized on a previously held equity interest as a result of a business combination completed during fiscal 2024. See Note 7, Business Combinations, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. For strategic investments in equity securities sold, the realized gains or losses represent the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value of the securities at the beginning of the period or the purchase date, if later. Other income (expense), net decreased $80.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to changes in net realized and unrealized gains (losses) and impairments on our strategic investments in equity securities. See Note 5, Fair Value Measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. 72 Table of Contents Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 % Change (dollars in thousands) Loss before income taxes $ (1,285,099) $ (849,223) 51% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 4,113 (11,233) (137%) Effective tax rate (0.3%) 1.3% Our provision for income taxes was $4.1 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to our benefit from income taxes of $11.2 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, primarily due to partial releases of valuation allowances from the business combinations completed during fiscal 2024. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets, and the significant components of our recorded tax expense are current cash taxes in various jurisdictions. The cash tax expenses are impacted by each jurisdictions individual tax rates, laws on the timing of recognition of income and deductions, and availability of net operating losses and tax credits. Our effective tax rate might fluctuate significantly and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than forecasted in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than forecasted in countries that have higher statutory rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments totaling $5.3 billion. Our cash equivalents and investments primarily consist of money market funds, corporate notes and bonds, U.S. government and agency securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, and time deposits. As of January 31, 2025, our RPO was $6.9 billion. Our RPO represents the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized, including (i) deferred revenue and (ii) non-cancelable contracted amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods, but that are not recorded on the balance sheet. Portions of RPO that are not yet invoiced and are denominated in foreign currencies are revalued into U.S. dollars each period based on the applicable period-end exchange rates. Our primary source of cash is payments received from our customers as well as net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes. Our primary uses of cash include personnel-related expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses (including with respect to GPUs to develop AI Technology), sales and marketing expenses, overhead costs, acquisitions and strategic investments we may make from time to time, and repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program. As of January 31, 2025, our material cash requirements from known contractual obligations and commitments relate primarily to (i) third-party cloud infrastructure agreements, (ii) the Notes, (iii) operating leases for office facilities, and (iv) subscription arrangements used to facilitate our operations at the enterprise level. These agreements are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the actions under the contracts. For more information regarding our contractual obligations and commitments (excluding the Notes) as of January 31, 2025, see Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our long-term purchase commitments may be satisfied earlier than the payment periods presented as we continue to grow and scale our business. 73 Table of Contents Convertible Senior Notes In September 2024, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $2.3 billion of the Notes in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers, comprising of (i) $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes and (ii) $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2029 Notes. Each series of Notes was issued pursuant to separate indentures, as supplemented (each an Indenture and together, the Indentures), between us and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee. The Notes are general, senior unsecured obligations. The 2027 Notes will mature on October 1, 2027 and the 2029 Notes will mature on October 1, 2029, in each case unless earlier converted, redeemed, or repurchased. Neither the 2027 Notes nor the 2029 Notes bear regular interest, and the principal amount of the Notes will not accrete. We may elect or be required to pay special interest on the Notes under certain circumstances in accordance with the terms of the applicable Indenture. Special interest, if any, will be payable semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2025. The total proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $2.27 billion, net of $31.2 million of debt issuance costs. In connection with the Notes offering, we entered into Capped Calls with certain of the initial purchasers or affiliates thereof and certain other financial institutions for a cost of $195.5 million. The Capped Calls are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the relevant series of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes of such series, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap based on a cap price initially equal to $225.00 per share. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the Notes offering to (i) pay the $195.5 million cost of the Capped Calls and (ii) repurchase $399.6 million of our common stock from purchasers of the Notes in the offering in privately negotiated transactions entered into in connection with the Notes offering at a purchase price of $112.50 per share. We expect to use the remainder of the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include other repurchases of our common stock from time to time under our existing or any future stock repurchase program, as well as acquisitions or strategic investments in complementary businesses or technologies. See Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, and Note 12, Equity, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details. Stock Repurchase Program In February 2023, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. In August 2024, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.5 billion of our outstanding common stock and extended the expiration date of the stock repurchase program from March 2025 to March 2027. Repurchases may be effected, from time to time, either on the open market (including via pre-set trading plans), in privately negotiated transactions, or through other transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws. The timing and amount of any repurchases will be determined by management based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The program does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, we repurchased 14.8 million shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $1.9 billion, excluding transaction costs associated with the repurchases, at a weighted-average price of $130.87 per share. All repurchases were made in open market transactions, except for the 3.6 million shares of our outstanding common stock that were repurchased for $399.6 million from purchasers of the Notes in the offering in privately negotiated transactions entered into in connection with the Notes offering at a purchase price of $112.50 per share. As of January 31, 2025, $2.0 billion remained available for future repurchases under the stock repurchase program (exclusive of transaction costs associated with repurchases). See Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, and Note 12, Equity, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details. Subsequent to January 31, 2025, and through March 21, 2025, we repurchased 3.2 million shares of our outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $490.6 million, excluding transaction costs associated with the repurchases, at a weighted-average price of $152.63 per share. All repurchases were made in open market transactions. 74 Table of Contents We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term investments, as well as cash flows expected to be generated by our operations, will be sufficient to support our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, convertible senior notes repayment requirements, acquisitions and strategic investments we may make from time to time, and repurchases of our common stock under our existing or any future stock repurchase program, for the next 12 months and beyond. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, expenditures related to our headcount growth, the timing and the amount of cash received from customers, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase public cloud capacity, our existing commitments to our third-party cloud providers, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, the continuing market adoption of our platform, and the volume and timing of our stock repurchases. We may continue to enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may, as a result of those arrangements or the general expansion of our business, be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The following table shows a summary of our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2025 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 959,764 $ 848,122 $ 545,639 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 190,646 $ 832,258 $ (597,885) Net cash used in financing activities $ (226,523) $ (854,103) $ (92,624) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, primarily consisting of (i) stock-based compensation, net of amounts capitalized, (ii) depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and amortization of acquired intangible assets, (iii) amortization of deferred commissions, (iv) amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets, (v) net amortization (accretion) of premiums (discounts) on investments, (vi) net realized and unrealized gains and losses on strategic investments in equity securities, and (vii) deferred income tax benefit or expense, and changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities was $959.8 million, consisting of our net loss of $1.3 billion, adjusted for non-cash charges of $1.8 billion, and net cash inflows of $443.6 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of business combinations. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities during fiscal 2025 were (i) a $382.8 million increase in deferred revenue due to invoicing for prepaid capacity agreements outpacing revenue recognition, (ii) a $108.9 million increase in accounts payable due to timing of invoices and payments, (iii) a $70.9 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the timing of accruals and payments, and (iv) a $29.9 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily driven by a decrease in prepaid third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, partially offset by (a) a $101.6 million increase in deferred commissions earned upon the origination of customer contracts, and (b) a $47.7 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to payments related to our operating lease obligations. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $848.1 million, consisting of our net loss of $838.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $1.3 billion, and net cash inflows of $390.7 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of the effects of business combinations. Net cash provided by operating activities increased $111.6 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025, compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in cash collected from customers resulting from increased sales. This was partially offset by increased expenditures due to an increase in headcount and growth in our business. We expect to continue to generate positive net cash flows from operating activities for fiscal 2026. 75 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was $190.6 million, primarily driven by proceeds of $297.4 million from net sales, maturities and redemptions of investments. The increase is partially offset by (i) $46.3 million in purchases of property and equipment to support our office facilities, (ii) an aggregate of $30.3 million in cash paid for Datavolo and other business combinations, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and (iii) $29.4 million in capitalized internal-use software development costs. Net cash provided by investing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 was $832.3 million, primarily driven by proceeds of $1.2 billion from net sales, maturities and redemptions of investments, partially offset by an aggregate of $275.7 million in cash paid for the Neeva, Mountain, LeapYear and other business combinations, net of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash acquired, and, to a lesser extent, purchases of property and equipment to support our office facilities, capitalized internal-use software development costs, and purchases of intangible assets. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 was $226.5 million, primarily driven by (i) $1.9 billion in repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program, (ii) $489.1 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and (iii) $195.5 million in purchases of the Capped Calls, partially offset by (a) proceeds of approximately $2.27 billion from the issuance of the Notes, net of $31.2 million in cash paid for issuance costs, and (b) proceeds of $121.9 million from the issuance of equity securities under our equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 was $854.1 million, primarily as a result of $591.7 million in repurchases of our common stock under our authorized stock repurchase program and $380.8 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by proceeds of $118.4 million from the issuance of equity securities under our equity incentive plans. Critical Accounting Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. By their nature, these estimates and assumptions are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. The significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are discussed in Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that the accounting policy and estimate described below involves a substantial degree of judgment and complexity and therefore is the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. 76 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Many of our contracts with customers include multiple performance obligations. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price (SSP) basis. We consider our evaluation of SSP to be a critical accounting estimate. An observable SSP is established based on the price at which a service is sold separately. If an SSP is not observable through past transactions, we estimate it by maximizing the use of observable inputs, including the overall pricing strategy, market data, internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations, and other observable inputs. As our business and offerings evolve over time, modifications to our pricing and discounting methodologies, changes in the scope and nature of our offerings, and/or changes in customer segmentation may result in a lack of consistency, making it difficult to establish and/or maintain SSP. Changes in SSP could result in different and unanticipated allocations of revenue in contracts with multiple performance obligations. These factors, among others, may adversely impact the amount of revenue and gross margin we report in a given period. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 77 Table of Contents