Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Factors Affecting our BusinessSeasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results". In an effort to partially counterbalance the concentration of revenue in the winter months, we offer non-ski season attractions at our mountain resorts during the summer months, such as lift accessed sightseeing, mountain biking, guided hiking, mountain coasters and other recreational activities. We also operate golf courses at Stratton, Tremblant, Snowshoe and Blue Mountain. These activities help attract destination conference and group business to our mountain resorts. Similarly, CMH offers helicopter accessed hiking and mountaineering adventures during the summer months. During seasonally slow times, we control operating costs by reducing operating hours and, in the case of CMH, closing a majority of our lodges. We also lease out a number of the helicopters from our aviation business for fire suppression activities. Employment levels required for peak operations are met largely through part-time and seasonal hiring. The following table contains selected unaudited segment information for each quarter in the years ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015 (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 September 30, 2015 Mountain revenue $ 36,781 $ 255,357 $ 79,436 $ 49,758 Adventure revenue 18,939 48,835 12,368 24,263 Real Estate revenue 9,245 9,973 11,403 11,812 Total segment revenue $ 64,965 $ 314,165 $ 103,207 $ 85,833 June 30, 2015 March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 September 30, 2014 Mountain revenue $ 36,869 $ 258,092 $ 94,655 $ 36,313 Adventure revenue 19,362 44,579 10,244 22,614 Real Estate revenue 11,416 17,635 15,152 15,071 Total segment revenue $ 67,647 $ 320,306 $ 120,051 $ 73,998 June 30, 2016 March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 September 30, 2015 Mountain Adjusted EBITDA $ (26,447 ) $ 136,704 $ (5,136 ) $ (20,787 ) Adventure Adjusted EBITDA (471 ) 21,246 (3,489 ) 4,860 Real Estate Adjusted EBITDA (191 ) 3,346 1,697 1,773 Total Adjusted EBITDA $ (27,109 ) $ 161,296 $ (6,928 ) $ (14,154 ) June 30, 2015 March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 September 30, 2014 Mountain Adjusted EBITDA $ (25,222 ) $ 135,721 $ 2,467 $ (23,994 ) Adventure Adjusted EBITDA 538 15,449 (4,817 ) 2,135 Real Estate Adjusted EBITDA 966 5,221 2,489 1,747 Total Adjusted EBITDA $ (23,718 ) $ 156,391 $ 139 $ (20,112 ) 7 Table of Contents Government Regulation and Environmental, Health and Safety United States Steamboat and Winter Park Federal Regulations The 1986 Ski Area Permit Act (the 1986 Act) allows the USFS to grant Term Special Use Permits (each, a SUP) for the operation of ski areas and construction of related facilities on National Forest lands. In addition, the 1986 Act requires a Master Development Plan for each ski area that is granted a SUP. Under the SUPs, the USFS has the right to review and approve the location, design and construction of improvements in the permit area and many operational matters. In addition, each distinct area of National Forest lands is required by the National Forest Management Act of 1976 to develop and maintain a Land and Resource Management Plan (a Forest Plan), which establishes standards and guidelines for the USFS to follow and consider in reviewing and approving proposed actions. In November 2011, the Ski Area Recreational Opportunity Enhancement Act amended the 1986 Act to clarify that the USFS is authorized to permit year-round recreational activities on National Forest lands. A majority of the skiable terrain at Steamboat and substantially all of the skiable terrain at Winter Park is located on USFS land. As a result, each of Steamboat and Winter Park operate under a SUP. Steamboat operates under a SUP for the use of 3,740 acres that expires on June 30, 2047. Steamboat also operates on 245 acres that it owns, essentially comprising the lower portion of the ski mountain. Winter Park operates under a SUP for the use of approximately 7,555 acres that expires on April 29, 2056. Each SUP contains a number of requirements, including that we indemnify the USFS from third-party claims arising out of our operations under the SUP and that we comply with applicable federal laws, such as those relating to water quality and endangered or threatened species. For use of the SUPs, we pay a fee to the USFS. The fee for Steamboat and Winter Park is calculated as a percentage of sales occurring on USFS land and ranges between 1.5% and 4.0% of such sales. The SUPs may be amended by us or by the USFS to change the permit area or permitted uses. The USFS may amend a SUP if the USFS determines that such amendment is in the public interest. While the USFS is required to seek our consent to any amendment, an amendment may be finalized over our objection. Permit amendments must be consistent with the Forest Plan and are subject to the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), both of which are discussed below. The USFS can also terminate a SUP if it determines that termination is required in the public interest. However, to our knowledge, no SUP has ever been terminated by the USFS over the opposition of the permitee. Master Development Plans All improvements that we propose to make on National Forest lands under any of our SUPs must be included in a Master Development Plan (MDP). MDPs describe the existing and proposed facilities, developments and area of activity within the permit area. We prepare MDPs, which set forth a conceptual overview of all potential projects at each resort. The MDPs are reviewed by the USFS for compliance with the Forest Plan and other applicable law and, if found to be compliant, are accepted by the USFS. Notwithstanding acceptance by the USFS of the conceptual MDPs, individual projects still require separate applications to be submitted evidencing compliance with NEPA and other applicable laws before the USFS will approve such projects. We update or amend our MDPs for Steamboat and Winter Park on an as needed basis or as required under the terms of the SUPs. Our current MDPs at Steamboat and Winter Park have been accepted by the USFS for expansion of our total skiable acres at those ski areas, subject to approval of individual applications for each project under NEPA and other applicable laws. National Forest Plans Operational and development activities on National Forest lands at Steamboat are subject to the additional regulatory and planning requirements set forth in the 1996 Revision of the Routt National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. Operational and development activities on National Forest lands at Winter Park are subject to the additional regulatory and planning requirements set forth in the 1997 Revision of the Land and Resource Management Plan for Arapaho/Roosevelt National Forest. When approving our application for development, area expansion and other activities on National Forest lands, the USFS must adhere to the applicable Forest Plan. Any such decision may be subject to judicial review in federal court if a party, with standing, challenges a USFS decision that applies the requirements of a Forest Plan. 8 Table of Contents National Environmental Policy Act NEPA requires the USFS to consider the environmental impact of major proposed actions on National Forest land, such as expansion of a ski area, installation of new lifts or snowmaking facilities, or construction of new trails or buildings. The studies, prepared by the USFS, are subject to public review and comment. An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is required for projects with significant impacts to the environment and the process can be lengthy to complete. Projects that require an EIS typically take longer to approve than projects that require an Environmental Assessment (EA), which is prepared for projects with less significant impacts. In each study, the USFS is required to analyze alternatives to the proposed action, including not taking the proposed action, as well as impacts that may be unavoidable. Following completion of the study, the USFS may decide not to approve the proposed action or may decide to approve an alternative action. Completion of the NEPA process does not guarantee that a project will be built. Projects may also be completed under NEPA absent an EIS or an EA if they are eligible under a Categorical Exclusion (Cat Ex). Cat Ex projects consist of those projects that are not expected to have a significant environmental impact. The USFS has a list of Cat Ex projects, and some projects at Steamboat and Winter Park are eligible to be completed under a Cat Ex. Stratton Act 250 is a land use and development control law enforced by the Vermont Agency of Natural Resources that requires developers to consider impacts to, among other things, waterways, air, wildlife and earth resources using 10 criteria that are designed to safeguard the environment, community life and aesthetic character of Vermont. The State of Vermont Natural Resources Board, District Environmental Commission has the power to issue or deny a permit to real estate developers for any project that encompasses more than 10 acres, or more than one acre for towns that do not have permanent zoning and subdivision bylaws. The law also applies to any development project with more than 10 housing units or housing lots, and may apply for proposed construction above 2,500 feet of elevation. Stratton has a Master Plan detailing the real estate development considerations within the resort boundary. All projects within Strattons Master Plan have completed or will need to complete the Act 250 process at the project level. The Vermont Department of Public Service is the state agency charged with oversight of propane facilities in Vermont for the Federal Governments Office of Pipeline Safety, which administers the United States Department of Transportations Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrations propane pipeline regulatory program. Stratton owns an extensive propane distribution system consisting of three 30,000 gallon above-ground propane storage tanks and related piping, regulators, vaporizers and other equipment for the purpose of providing propane to homes in the Stratton area and to Strattons facilities. A third party supplies and operates the system. Stratton also operates a waste water treatment facility. Operation of the waste water treatment facility requires state and local permits, and we are currently subject to a water quality remediation plan to reduce heat and sediment discharges. Snowshoe Snowshoe is home to the Cheat Mountain salamander, a threatened endangered species. Prior to conducting certain development activities at Snowshoe, we must submit a site survey to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service demonstrating the impact of the development activities on the Cheat Mountain salamander habitat at Snowshoe. Snowshoe, through its subsidiary, Cheat Mountain Water Company, Inc., a private utility, owns and operates a potable water facility that is approximately 40 years old and requires state and local permits to operate in Pocahontas County in the State of West Virginia. Due to the age of this facility and increasingly more stringent water discharge standards, we are evaluating our options with respect to the facility, including potentially transferring the facility to a private operator, not-for-profit or municipality in the next few years. USTs The federal Solid Waste Disposal Act provides authority to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate underground storage tanks (USTs). USTs are present at Steamboat, Winter Park and Stratton and assist in storing fuel for base and mountain operations. In some states, if approved by the EPA, the state UST program will take precedence over the federal regulations. Canada Tremblant Our operations at Tremblant are subject to a variety of federal, provincial and local laws, including environmental laws and health and safety regulations. Our ski operations are also subject to provincial regulations pertaining to the safety of our lifts and of individuals using 9 Table of Contents our facilities at Tremblant for downhill activities. In addition, our operations at Tremblant are subject to the Province of Quebecs labor code. At Tremblant, there is one UST and it is regulated by the Ministry of Sustainable Development, Environment, Wildlife and Parks. Our operations at Tremblant are also subject to municipal bylaws and regulations enacted by the Municipality of Mont-Tremblant that regulate, most notably, zoning, development, commercial advertising and the environment. Furthermore, in 1991, Tremblant entered into a master agreement with the Municipality of Mont-Tremblant. The agreement governs Tremblants real estate development and the operation of its village, as well as the use of municipal water for the purposes of snow making. Blue Mountain Blue Mountain operates under a variety of federal, provincial, and municipal laws and regulations. Land use development is regulated by Grey County and the Town of the Blue Mountains through their respective Official Plan and Zoning By-laws. Furthermore, development activities located along the Niagara Escarpment are regulated by the Niagara Escarpment Commission through the Niagara Escarpment Plan. In terms of environmental laws and regulations, the primary government ministries and agencies regulating Blue Mountain operations include the Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Natural Resources, and local area conservation authorities, including Grey Sauble Conservation Authority and Nottawasaga Valley Conservation Authority. In terms of health and safety, Blue Mountain is regulated by the Ontario Ministry of Labour and the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board. Non-potable water for snowmaking, golf course irrigation, and landscaping is sourced through a pipeline that connects the resort to Nottawasaga Bay, Georgian Bay and is supplied under a Permit to Take Water (PTTW), issued by the Ministry of the Environment. Permits and/or agreements with the Ministry of Transportation and Grey County permit us to locate our watermain under their respective road allowances. Blue Mountains water supply system also includes a water intake pipe and pumphouse located on lands owned by the municipality in which Blue Mountain has a 30-year lease agreement that expires on May 31, 2024 (with a 30-year renewal option). CMH CMH operates on land tenures issued by the Province of British Columbia in extensive areas inside and outside parks and protected areas. Pursuant to British Columbias Land Act, tenures are issued by the Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations as Licences of Occupation or Leases outside park and protected areas, on lands designated as vacant Crown land. Pursuant to British Columbias Park Act, tenures are issued, in the form of permits, by the same ministry. Detailed management plans and maps are submitted as a foundation for the applications for tenures. The tenure applications are reviewed by the ministry and shared with a range of other government departments and public groups as referrals. They are also advertised in local newspapers for public comment. Applications must also be referred to local First Nations groups for comment. Most of the tenures that CMH holds are 30 years in length and are renewable at mid-term. CMH is required to renew or replace its tenure applications. While CMH has been able to renew its tenures several times in the past, the province retains the right not to renew all or a portion of the tenures for reasons of non-compliance, environmental protection or when the land is needed for what the province deems to be a higher and better use. Currently, CMH is the only helicopter accessed ski and hiking operator operating within its tenured land, although the province has the legal right to issue additional tenures for the same use. The land management environment in British Columbia is such that the tenured operating areas for CMH can and do overlap with a range of other activities, such as forest management, mining and mineral exploration, and public recreation. Alpine Aerotech Alpine Aerotech is subject to a variety of federal, provincial and local laws and regulations applicable in the field of manufacturing, maintenance and repair of airframe parts and engines. Water We rely on a supply of water to operate our ski areas for domestic use and snowmaking purposes. Availability of water depends on the existence of adequate water rights as well as physical delivery of the water when and where it is needed. At our mountain resorts in Colorado, we own or have ownership or leasehold interests in water rights individually or through stock ownership in ditch and reservoir companies, groundwater wells and other sources. The primary source of snowmaking water for Steamboat is the Yampa River, in which we have adjudicated absolute water rights granting us access to water in accordance with those rights. The primary water source for Winter Parks snowmaking operations is the Vasquez Canal, which is part of the Denver Water Moffat Collection System located, in part, on the ski area, and owned and operated by the Water Department of the City and County of Denver (Denver Water). Through our leasehold interest in water rights obtained by acquisition of shares in the Clinton Ditch and Reservoir Company at 10 Table of Contents its formation in 1992 and our subsequent agreements with other water users in the region, we obtained the right to use water from the Denver Water canal in sufficient amounts to support our snowmaking operations at Winter Park. At both of our Colorado resorts, base area water is obtained through municipal suppliers and on-mountain water needs are satisfied primarily from on-mountain wells for which adequate water rights are owned or obtained through leasehold arrangements. We believe we have rights to sufficient quantities of water for the operation of our mountain resorts for the foreseeable future. Delivery of the snowmaking water to each resort typically comes from water diverted directly into the snowmaking system. The streams that deliver the water are subject to minimum stream flows, freezing and other limitations that may prevent or reduce the amount of water physically available to the resort. Other on-mountain water comes from wells from which water is pumped to on-site storage facilities where it is treated and then supplied to the various facilities where it will be used. Intellectual Property To protect the Company and our resorts as branded businesses with strong name recognition, we have registered trademarks in the United States, Canada and internationally. We also rely on a combination of trademark licenses and other contracts, both as licensee and licensor of third party trademarks, as well as common law trademark and trade name rights. Third party policies governing reporting of unauthorized use of trademarks also assist in the protection of our trademark rights. The duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country; however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and the steps we have taken, including sending demand letters and taking actions against third parties, may not prevent unauthorized use by others in all instances. The failure to adequately build, maintain and enforce our trademark portfolio could impair the strength of our brands. Employees Given the seasonal nature of our business, the number of people that we employ varies considerably throughout the fiscal year. We employ significantly more people during the peak ski season than during the summer season. During the peak 2015/2016 ski season, we had approximately 10,900 employees, approximately 2,850 of whom were employed on a full-time basis. As of June 30, 2016 , we had approximately 5,350 employees, approximately 2,850 of whom were employed on a full-time basis. As of June 30, 2016 , approximately 200 of Tremblants year-round employees and the majority of its additional seasonal employees were members of the union Le Syndicat Des Travailleurs(euses) de La Station du Mont Tremblant (CSN). The current contract with the union was recently renegotiated and a five-year agreement was signed in January 2016, and is set to expire in October 2020. In addition, approximately 70 ski patrol employees at Steamboat are members of the Communication Workers of America / Steamboat Professional Ski Patrol Association. In December 2015, the parties approved a new contract with the union, which expired on September 1, 2016. We are currently negotiating a new contract with the union and do not believe it will have a significant impact on our operations at Steamboat during the upcoming 2016/2017 ski season. Other than as noted above, none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Part II- Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 17, "Segment Information". Corporate Information Our website can be accessed at http://www.intrawest.com . The website contains information about us and our operations. Our principal executive offices are located at 1621 18th Street, Suite 300, Denver, Colorado 80202. Our telephone number is (303) 749-8200. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the 11 Table of Contents SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on the investor relations section of our website at http://ir.intrawest.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information contained in this report. Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is sensitive to weakness in the economy and we are subject to risks associated with the overall leisure industry. If economic conditions in the United States and Canada or elsewhere in the world were to weaken, including high unemployment and erosion of consumer confidence, it could have a material adverse effect on our industry. We provide skiing and mountain adventure experiences with a relatively high cost of participation. An economic downturn or weak economic conditions generally could reduce consumer spending on recreational activities, resulting in declines in visits to, and spending at, our mountain resorts and CMH, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be unable to increase the price of our lift products or other offerings during an economic downturn despite our history of being successful in raising such prices under a variety of economic conditions. Leisure and business travel are particularly susceptible to various factors outside of our control, including terrorism, the uncertainty of military conflicts, outbreaks of contagious diseases and the cost and availability of travel options. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our guests to travel. Acts of terrorism, the spread of contagious diseases, political events and developments in military conflicts in areas of the world from which we draw our guests could depress the public's propensity to travel and cause severe disruptions in both domestic and international air travel and consumer discretionary spending, which could reduce the number of visitors to our resorts and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Many of our guests travel by air and the impact of higher prices for commercial airline services and availability of air services could cause a decrease in visitation to our resorts. A significant portion of our guests also travel by vehicle and higher gasoline prices could adversely impact our guests' willingness to travel to our resorts. Higher cost of travel may also affect the amount that guests are willing to spend at our resorts and could negatively impact our revenue, particularly for ancillary services. Our industry is vulnerable to lack of adequate snowfall or unseasonable weather conditions. The ability to attract winter customers to mountain resorts is influenced by adequate snowfall and weather conditions. Warm weather may result in rain, snow melt and inadequate natural snowfall and may render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining skiing conditions. For example, the Eastern United States 2015/2016 ski season was marked by some of the warmest temperatures in the past 100 years and we experienced a decline in skier visits during the 2015/2016 ski season compared to prior years. Conversely, extreme weather conditions may adversely affect the customer experience or result in lift closures and may also make it difficult for customers to access mountain resorts. The early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of early season snow conditions influence the momentum and success of the overall ski season, including advance sales of season passes and frequency pass products at our mountain resorts. Although helicopter accessed skiing is less susceptible to customer fluctuations due to weather conditions than our mountain resorts, as most helicopter accessed skiing customers book their visits significantly in advance of the ski season, CMH remains susceptible to risks related to inclement weather because we provide customers with credits, which may be used during future seasons, if weather conditions prevent customers from reaching the guaranteed amount of vertical feet of skiing. As a result, inclement weather at our CMH sites during any given ski season may materially adversely affect our CMH results of operations. In addition, unseasonable weather or rain can adversely affect summer visits to our mountain resorts and helicopter accessed hiking sites. Additionally, there is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. The effects of climate change, including any impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our business is highly seasonal and the occurrence of adverse events during our peak periods could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Although we operate four-season resorts, we generate the vast majority of our revenue during our third fiscal quarter, which is the peak ski season, followed by the second fiscal quarter. As a result of the seasonality of our business, many of our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth fiscal quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, throughout our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Years and Presidents Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Furthermore, we sell a significant portion of our season pass products, pre-sold destination packages and CMH trips during our first fiscal quarter and the first month of our second fiscal quarter. The seasonality of our revenue and our dependence on peak operating and selling periods increases the impact of certain events on our results of operations. The occurrence of any of the other risk factors discussed herein during these peak operating or selling periods could have a disproportionate and material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Variations in the timing of peak holidays and weekends may affect the comparability of our results of operations. Depending on how peak holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or fewer peak holidays and weekends in any given fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in a preceding or subsequent fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our quarterly results of operations from one fiscal year to the next. We are vulnerable to the risk of natural disasters, including forest fires, avalanches, landslides, drought and hurricanes. A severe natural disaster, such as a forest fire, avalanche, landslide, drought or hurricane, may not be fully covered by our insurance policies and may interrupt our operations, require evacuations, severely damage our properties and impede access to our properties in affected areas, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our ability to attract customers to our properties is influenced by the aesthetics and natural beauty of the outdoor environment where our properties are located. In the recent past, the combination of drought conditions and a pine-beetle epidemic led to an increase in forest fires in the Western United States, including Colorado. A severe forest fire or other natural disaster could damage our properties or surrounding areas and have a long-term negative impact on customer visitation, as it would take several years for the environment to recover. Our insurance policies may not cover lost revenue due to a decline in visitation caused by damage to our properties or surrounding areas. There is a risk of accidents occurring at our mountain resorts or competing mountain resorts, which may reduce visitation and negatively impact our operations. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company and the industry, the quality and safety of our resorts, services and activities, including summer activities, and our corporate and management integrity. While we maintain and promote an on-mountain safety program, there are inherent risks associated with our resort activities. An accident or injury at any of our resorts or at resorts operated by our competitors, particularly an accident or injury involving the safety of guests and employees that receives media attention, could negatively impact our brand or reputation, cause loss of consumer confidence in the Company, reduce visitation at our resorts, and negatively impact our results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the impact of negative publicity. If any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations in a fiscal year. 14 Table of Contents A disruption in our water supply would impact our snowmaking capabilities and operations. Our operations are heavily dependent upon our access to adequate supplies of water to make snow and otherwise conduct our operations. Availability of adequate supplies of water depends on the existence of adequate water rights as well as physical delivery of the water when and where it is needed. Additionally, our mountain resorts are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to water rights. Changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. In addition, drought conditions may adversely affect our water supply. At our mountain resorts in Colorado, we own or have ownership or leasehold interests in water rights individually or through stock ownership in ditch and reservoir companies, groundwater wells and other sources, and the availability of water through these sources is subject to change. In addition, in recent years the USFS had sought to obtain ownership of certain water rights owned by ski resorts located on USFS land. However, on December 23, 2015, following significant opposition by ski areas, the USFS issued a Final Directive abandoning this position and approving new ski area permit terms that do not require ski resorts to transfer water rights to the federal government as a condition of operating on public land, but focus instead on requiring ski areas to, among other things, (i) demonstrate that they have sufficient water to sustain their operations (which Winter Park has established and we expect Steamboat to also establish) and (ii) offer their water rights of whatever kind they may have to a proposed successor operator of the ski area. This new water provision is included in a new Special Use Permit that was issued for the Winter Park resort on April 28, 2016 and is expected to be included in all other ski area special use permits for use of National Forest lands in the future. Notwithstanding the foregoing, USFS policies are subject to review and change over time, and a significant change in law or policy, or actions by permit administrators under the current policy, that interfere with our access to adequate supplies of water to support our current operations or an expansion of our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face significant competition. Our mountain resorts directly compete with other resorts in their respective local and regional markets, as well as with other major destination resorts and non-ski vacation options. We also compete with other large resort operators for the sale of multi-mountain passes. Competition within the ski resort industry is based on multiple factors, including location, price, weather conditions, the uniqueness and perceived quality of the terrain for various levels of skill and ability, the atmosphere of the base village, the quality of food and entertainment and ease of travel to the resort (including direct flights by major airlines). In our Adventure segment, we face competition from heli-skiing and snowcat operators in Canada and the United States. Our ancillary aviation businesses face increasing competition from small independent operators that have certain advantages, including an ability to bid on certain government contracts that are allocated to small businesses. Within our Real Estate segment, our managed properties compete with rental management companies, locally-owned independent hotels, as well as facilities and timeshare companies that are owned or managed by national and international chains. These properties also compete for convention and conference business across the North American market. Competition within the hotel and lodging industry is generally based on quality and consistency of rooms, restaurants and meeting facilities and services, attractiveness of locations, availability of a global distribution system, price and other factors. Our competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing and other resources and may have access to financing on more attractive terms than us. As a result, they may be able to devote more resources to improving and marketing their offerings or more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially adversely affected. We are not the sole property manager at our resorts. We manage a significant portion of the lodging rooms available at our resorts and manage rental properties. We cannot require individuals who purchased condominiums in our U.S. developments to use our rental management services and, in recent years, third-party services that assist condominium owners in leasing their units without our involvement have become more prevalent. As a result, we have experienced a decline in the number of condominium owners using our rental management services. In addition, since we are not involved in transactions where the condominium owner uses a third-party manager, we are unable to control the quality of the leased units or the customer experience. If customers are unsatisfied, the reputation of the entire development, including units we manage, may be harmed, as most customers do not distinguish between units managed by us and units managed by third parties. If a developments reputation for a positive customer experience deteriorates, it may become more challenging for us to attract customers to these developments. A decline in customers at a development located at one of our mountain resorts may also lead to a decline in revenue throughout the resorts business. 15 Table of Contents We operate on government land pursuant to the terms of governmental permits that may be revoked or not renewed. We do not own all of the land on which we conduct our operations. Certain of our mountain resorts and CMH operate on federal or Crown land or land owned by other governmental entities pursuant to the terms of governmental permits, leases or other agreements. In many cases, the permits, leases or other agreements give the applicable agency, including the USFS, the right to review and comment on the construction of improvements in the applicable area and on certain other operational matters. Certain permits, leases or other agreements may also be terminated or modified by the applicable agency for specific reasons or in the event we fail to perform our obligations under the applicable permits, leases or other agreements. In addition, the permits, leases or other agreements may not be renewed. A termination or modification of any of our permits, leases or other agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Finally, British Columbia may issue additional permits or licences to third parties related to the land on which CMH operates, and such additional permits and licences may deteriorate the heli-skiing experience at CMH and increase competition. Our operations are subject to extensive laws, rules, regulations and policies administered by various federal, state, provincial and other governmental authorities. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations, including those relating to lift operations, emissions to the air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of fuel, water and waste, land use, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of the environment, natural resources and wildlife. For example, future expansions of certain of our U.S. mountain facilities must comply with applicable forest plans approved under the National Forest Management Act, federal, state and foreign wildlife protection laws or local zoning requirements. In addition, most projects to improve, upgrade or expand our ski areas are subject to environmental review under the NEPA. The NEPA requires the Forest Service, or other governmental entities, to study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include various alternatives in its analysis. Our ski area improvement proposals may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project. We are also subject to worker health and safety laws and regulations. From time to time our operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies and we may be required to undertake certain remediation activities, including in connection with the onsite use and storage of chemicals and petroleum products that may result in spills or releases. Although to date the costs associated with remediation activities have been immaterial, we may be required to incur material remediation costs in the future. Our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations do not eliminate the risk that we may be held liable for breaches of these laws and regulations, which may result in fines and penalties or subject us to claims for damages. Liability for any fines, penalties, damages or remediation costs, or changes in applicable laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on significant infrastructure and our business and growth plans are capital intensive. We must regularly expend capital to construct, maintain and renovate our properties in order to remain competitive, maintain the safety, value and brand standards of our properties and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our infrastructure and equipment, including lifts and helicopters, are costly to maintain, repair and replace and are susceptible to unscheduled maintenance. Much of our infrastructure and equipment will eventually need to be replaced or significantly repaired or modernized, which could result in interruptions to our business. We cannot always predict where capital will need to be expended in a given fiscal year and capital expenditures can increase due to forces beyond our control. In certain cases, the cost of infrastructure or equipment repair or replacement may not be justified by the revenue at the applicable property. As a result, we may close a property, or reduce its offerings, if we determine that it is not cost efficient to replace, maintain or repair our infrastructure and equipment at the property. We also plan to grow through investments in our revenue-generating infrastructure and acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will have enough capital or that we will be able to raise capital by issuing equity or debt securities or through other financing methods on reasonable terms, if at all, to execute our business plan. A lack of available funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our ability to construct, maintain and renovate our properties is subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns, including those related to labor and materials; the requirement to obtain zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; force majeure events, including forest fires, avalanches, landslides, drought or hurricanes; 16 Table of Contents design defects; and environmental concerns. If we are not able to complete capital projects on schedule, or if our investments fail to improve the properties in the manner that we expect, our ability to compete effectively would be diminished and our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our future strategic alliance, acquisitions or other growth opportunities may not be successful. We evaluate strategic alliance and acquisition opportunities both domestically and internationally where the opportunity would provide a strategic fit within our existing portfolio of businesses and we may actively pursue such opportunities from time to time, some of which could be significant. In addition, we intend to evaluate capital light opportunities, such as managing third-party resort assets and entering into real estate development partnerships. We cannot predict whether we will realize all of the anticipated benefits and synergies from businesses we acquire. We may also underestimate the resources and costs required to integrate acquired operations and we may be unable to predict the impact any acquisition will have on our future results of operations. The integration process is inherently unpredictable and subject to delay and unexpected costs. Acquisitions involve significant risks, including: our potential over-valuation of acquired companies, properties or assets; delays in realizing or a failure to realize the benefits, revenue, cost savings and synergies that we anticipate; failure to retain key personnel or business relationships and maintain the reputation of the acquired company, property or asset; the potential impairment of acquired assets; insufficient, or no, indemnification for legal liabilities; the assumption of known or unknown liabilities and additional risks of the acquired businesses or properties, including environmental liabilities; and operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. We may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or other transactions on attractive terms, or at all, and the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness or other indebtedness we may incur. In addition, our competitors may be able to obtain financing on more attractive terms than us. Steamboat is highly dependent on contracted direct air service from major hub airports. A significant portion of Steamboats destination customers fly directly from large hub airports to the Yampa Valley Regional Airport, which is approximately 25 miles from the resort. Each ski season, we enter into agreements with major airlines to fly these routes and provide the airlines with subsidies if passenger volume falls below certain pre-established levels. If the routes prove unprofitable to the airlines and any of these airlines decides to stop service to this airport, Steamboats skier visits could be materially adversely affected. We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend on the use of information technology and systems, including technology and systems used for reservations, point of sale, e-commerce, accounting, procurement, administration and technologies we make available to our customers. We are currently in the process of updating or replacing many of these systems. Delays or difficulties in implementing these new or enhanced systems may prevent us from achieving the desired results in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, we may face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology and systems, to intentionally hack, interfere with or cause physical or digital damage to or failure of such systems (such as significant viruses or worms), which attempts we may be unable to prevent. We could be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects until after it is too late to prevent it and the damage it may cause. We have experienced minor outages in the past. Any future interruptions, outages or delays in our systems, or deterioration in their performance, could impair our ability to process transactions and could decrease the quality of service that we offer to our customers. 17 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands and to respond to competitive service and product offerings. The failure to adopt new technologies and systems in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Non-compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) may subject us to fines, penalties and civil liability. We are subject to compliance with PCI DSS, an information security standard for organizations that handle cardholder information from major debit and credit card companies. Currently, we are generally compliant within our applicable PCI DSS merchant level and its requisite criteria; however, our level and the requisite criteria are subject to change. We continue to take steps to improve our PCI DSS compliance, but our efforts may result in significant expenses and failure to fully comply with PCI DSS may subject us to fines, penalties and civil liability, and other potential enforcement actions, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept debit and credit card payments or prohibit us from processing transactions through American Express, MasterCard, VISA and other card and payment networks. Even if we are compliant with PCI DSS or other applicable standards, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving customer transaction data, though we have taken steps to diminish this risk. Failure to maintain the integrity of customer or employee data or to use data properly could result in damage to our reputation and subject us to fines, penalties and civil liability. We collect and store personally identifiable information from customers and employees in the course of doing business and use it for a variety of business purposes, including marketing to our customers through various forms of media. State, provincial and federal governments have enacted laws and regulations to protect consumers and employees against unwanted communications and identity theft, including laws governing treatment of personally identifiable information. The regulatory environment and increased threats to the data we store has increased our costs of doing business. Additionally, the regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the payment card industry, governing information, security and privacy laws are increasingly demanding and continue to evolve and, on occasion, may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Any failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of breaches or unauthorized access as required by applicable laws, or failure on our part to comply with applicable laws regarding consent to consumer communications, could result in damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, increased processing fees, litigation or regulatory investigations, or subject us to fines, penalties and civil liabilities. If we are required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we are forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Despite our efforts, information networks and systems are vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. In recent years, there has been a rise in the number of sophisticated cyber-attacks on network and information systems, and as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase. Although we have taken, and continue to take steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal controls, there can be no assurance that a system interruption, security breach or unauthorized access will not occur. Any such interruption, breach or unauthorized access to our network or systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. Our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse impact on our business. A negative public image or other adverse events could affect the reputation of one or more of our mountain resorts and other businesses or more generally impact the reputation of our company. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The unauthorized use of our trademarks could also diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, a negative public image or other adverse event occurring in an industry where we operate or a related industry may harm our reputation even if such image or event does not directly relate to our brands or business. We are subject to risks related to currency fluctuations. We present our financial statements in United States dollars ("USD"). Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses are transacted in Canadian dollars. During fiscal 2016, total Canadian dollar denominated revenue comprised approximately 41% of our total revenue. Any negative impact on revenue would be naturally hedged, in part, by our Canadian dollar denominated operating expenses. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into United States dollars. See Part II-Item 7A.,