ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission (the SEC) on September 8, 2016 , as amended by our Amendment to the Annual Report on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on November 3, 2016 . In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. References herein to the Company, we, us, or our are to Intrawest Resort Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 20 Overview We are a North American mountain resort, adventure, and real estate company, delivering distinctive vacation and travel experiences to our customers for over three decades. We wholly own and/or operate six four-season mountain resorts with approximately 8,000 skiable acres and approximately 1,100 acres of land available for real estate development. Our mountain resorts are geographically diversified across North Americas major ski regions, including the Eastern United States, the Rocky Mountains and Canada. Our mountain resorts are located within an average of approximately 160 miles of major metropolitan markets with high concentrations of affluent skiers and several major national airports, including: New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Denver, Pittsburgh, Montreal and Toronto. We also operate an adventure travel business, which includes Canadian Mountain Holidays (CMH), a leading heli-skiing adventure company in North America. CMH provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering and hiking over approximately 3.0 million tenured acres. Additionally, we operate a comprehensive real estate business through which we manage condominium hotel properties and sell and market residential real estate. Our three segments are as follows: Mountain : Our Mountain segment includes our mountain resort and lodging operations at Steamboat Ski & Resort (Steamboat), Winter Park Resort (Winter Park), Stratton Mountain Resort (Stratton), Snowshoe Mountain Resort (Snowshoe), Mont Tremblant Resort (Tremblant), and Blue Mountain Ski Resort (Blue Mountain). Adventure: Our Adventure segment is comprised of CMH, which provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering, and hiking in British Columbia, and our ancillary businesses that support CMH and provide commercial aviation services, such as firefighting, leasing and helicopter maintenance, and repair and overhaul (MRO) services to third parties. Real Estate : Our Real Estate segment includes our real estate management, marketing and sales businesses, as well as our real estate development activities. Our Real Estate segment includes Intrawest Hospitality Management, Inc. (IHM), which manages condominium hotel properties including Honua Kai Resort and Spa in Maui, Hawaii and the Westin Monache Resort in Mammoth Lakes, California, Playground, our residential real estate sales and marketing business, our 50.0% interest in Mammoth Hospitality Management, L.L.C. (MHM) and our 57.1% economic interest in Chateau M.T. Inc. (Chateau), and formerly included the Intrawest Resort Club Group (IRCG), a vacation club business, until we sold the business on January 29, 2016 (the Disposition Date). Our Real Estate segment also includes costs associated with real estate development activities, such as planning activities and land carrying costs. In addition to our segments, our consolidated financial results reflect items related to our legacy real estate development and sales activities and non-core assets and operations (referred to herein as Legacy, non-core and other). Recent Transactions Merger Transaction On April 7, 2017, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), with Hawk Holding Company, LLC (Hawk), a newly formed entity controlled by affiliates of the Aspen Skiing Company, L.L.C. and KSL Capital Partners, LLC, Hawk Holding Company, Inc., and Hawk Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hawk (Merger Sub). The Merger Agreement provides that, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the Merger), with the Company surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hawk. At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Company common stock (subject to certain exceptions described in the Merger Agreement) will automatically be converted into the right to receive $23.75 in cash, without interest. As a result of the Merger, the Company will cease to be a publicly traded company. On April 12, 2017, Mammoth Resorts, in which the Company has an approximate 15% equity interest, entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Hawk. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, and is expected to close by the end of the third calendar quarter of 2017. IRCG Transaction On January 29, 2016, the Company sold substantially all of the assets used in the operations of IRCG and all of the equity interests in certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of IRCG to Diamond Resorts Corporation and Diamond Resorts International, Inc. (together with Diamond Resorts Corporation, Diamond) for a purchase price of approximately $84.6 million (the IRCG Transaction). 21 Table of Contents Factors Affecting our Business Economic Conditions Our results of operations are affected by consumer discretionary spending. Numerous economic trends support the notion that the health of the general economy has improved in recent periods. We believe that if the economy continues to improve, consumers will have more disposable income and a greater inclination to engage in and spend money on leisure activities, which will positively impact our results of operations. We also believe that relatively low fuel prices experienced in recent periods can, if sustained, benefit the travel and leisure industry. Snowfall and Weather The timing and amount of snowfall and other weather conditions can have an impact on visitation and the financial results. Our resorts are geographically diversified and have strong snowmaking capabilities, which help to partially mitigate the impact of localized snow conditions and weather. In addition, our increasing percentage of revenue derived from season pass and frequency products sold prior to the ski season helps to insulate us from variations in snowfall and weather conditions. Prolonged periods of severe weather at our resorts and helicopter accessed skiing tenures can force us to cancel or suspend operations, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Weather may also have an effect on our summer fire suppression activities and flight hours, as a significant share of our ancillary firefighting service revenue is from as needed contracts, which is based almost entirely on flight hours. Season Pass and Frequency Product Usage Season pass products offer unlimited access to lifts at our resorts, subject to certain exceptions and restrictions, for a fixed upfront payment. Frequency products are valid for a specific period of time or number of visits, providing our customers with flexibility to ski on multiple dates for a fixed price. The number of visits from season pass and frequency product holders is influenced by sales volume and usage levels. In recent ski seasons, season pass and frequency product sales have been increasing, while usage levels vary from one ski season to the next due primarily to changes in weather, snowfall and skiing conditions. A greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders results in downward pressure on the effective ticket price (ETP) since these passholders are skiing for a fixed upfront payment, regardless of the number of times they visit. This downward pressure on ETP is more pronounced in ski seasons with higher snowfall, as season pass holders increase their usage. Similarly, a greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders may result in downward pressure on Revenue Per Visit, as defined in Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management below. We expect the volume and pricing of season pass and frequency product sales to continue to increase in future ski seasons; however, ETP and Revenue Per Visit in any given ski season may increase or decrease as a result of the mix of visitors and pass products. Seasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our business is seasonal in nature. Although we operate four-season resorts, based upon historical results, we generate the highest revenue between our second and third fiscal quarters, which includes the peak ski season. As a result of the seasonality of our business, our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, during our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Years and Presidents Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or less peak periods, holidays and weekends in our second fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our third fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The following table contains selected unaudited segment information for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 and the four preceding quarters (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 March 31, 2016 Mountain revenue $ 270,121 $ 99,045 $ 53,994 $ 36,781 $ 255,357 Adventure revenue 53,664 13,291 17,946 18,939 48,835 Real Estate revenue 9,620 8,226 8,279 9,245 9,973 Total segment revenue $ 333,405 $ 120,562 $ 80,219 $ 64,965 $ 314,165 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 September 30, 2016 June 30, 2016 March 31, 2016 Mountain Adjusted EBITDA $ 148,357 $ 8,484 $ (18,073 ) $ (26,447 ) $ 136,704 Adventure Adjusted EBITDA 24,592 (2,867 ) 2,145 (471 ) 21,246 Real Estate Adjusted EBITDA 4,041 1,469 1,999 (191 ) 3,346 Total Adjusted EBITDA $ 176,990 $ 7,086 $ (13,929 ) $ (27,109 ) $ 161,296 See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for reconciliations between non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP (as defined below) measures. Resort Real Estate Markets We intend to resume development of residential vacation homes at our mountain resorts or other resort properties when market conditions are favorable. The value and sales volume of vacation homes fluctuate with macroeconomic trends and consumer sentiment. During recent periods we have seen a partial recovery in the market for vacation homes. Foreign Currency Fluctuation Risk We present our financial statements in United States dollars (U.S. dollars). Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses is transacted in Canadian dollars, principally at Tremblant, Blue Mountain and within our Adventure segment. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. See Part I - Item 3,