ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our Prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on January 31, 2014. In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Unless the context suggests otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to the Company, our, us, or we refer to Intrawest Cayman L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the consummation of the restructuring transactions described below under Restructuring and to Intrawest Resorts Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries after the consummation of the restructuring transactions described below under Restructuring. Overview We are a North American mountain resort and adventure company, delivering distinctive vacation and travel experiences to our customers for over three decades. We own interests in seven four-season mountain resorts with more than 11,000 skiable acres and more than 1,150 acres of land available for real estate development. Our mountain resorts are geographically diversified across North Americas major ski regions, including the Eastern United States, the Rocky Mountains, the Pacific Southwest and Canada. Our mountain resorts are located within an average of approximately 160 miles of major metropolitan markets with high concentrations of affluent skiers and major airports, including New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Pittsburgh, Denver, Los Angeles, Montreal and Toronto. We also operate an adventure travel business, which includes Canadian Mountain Holidays (CMH), the leading heli-skiing adventure company in North America. CMH provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering and hiking over approximately 3.1 million acres. Additionally, we operate a comprehensive real estate business through which we manage, market and sell vacation club properties; manage condominium hotel properties; and sell and market residential real estate. We manage our business through three reportable segments: Mountain : Our Mountain segment includes our mountain resort and lodging operations at Steamboat Ski & Resort (Steamboat), Winter Park Resort (Winter Park), Mont Tremblant Resort (Tremblant), Stratton Mountain Resort (Stratton) and Snowshoe Mountain Resort (Snowshoe), as well as our 50% interest in Blue Mountain Ski Resort (Blue Mountain). Adventure: Our Adventure segment is comprised of CMH, which provides heli-skiing, mountaineering, and hiking in British Columbia, and our aviation businesses that support CMH and provide helicopter maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services to third parties. Real Estate : Our Real Estate segment includes our real estate management, marketing and sales businesses, as well as our real estate development activities. The Real Estate segment includes Intrawest Resort Club Group (IRCG), our vacation club business, Intrawest Hospitality Management (IHM), which manages condominium hotel properties, Playground, our residential real estate sales and marketing business, as well as our 50% interest in Mammoth Hospitality Management, LLC (MHM) and 57.1% interest in Chateau M.T. Inc. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table summarizes key statistics relating to each of our resorts as of September 30, 2013. Resort Location Year Opened Maximum Vertical Drop Skiable Terrain Snowmaking Coverage # of Trails # of Lifts (feet) (acres) (acres) Steamboat Colorado 1963 3,668 2,965 375 165 18 Winter Park Colorado 1939 3,060 3,081 313 143 25 Tremblant Quebec 1939 2,116 654 465 95 14 Stratton Vermont 1961 2,003 624 474 94 11 Snowshoe West Virginia 1974 1,500 251 251 57 14 Blue Mountain (50%) Ontario 1941 720 281 236 36 14 In addition to our reportable segments, our consolidated financial results reflect items related to our legacy real estate development and sales activities and non-core assets and operations (Legacy, non-core and other). Recent Transactions Restructuring On December 9, 2013, we were party to a series of transactions in which the Partnership caused its indirect subsidiaries to contribute 100% of their equity interest in both Intrawest U.S. Holdings Inc, a Delaware corporation (Intrawest U.S.) and Intrawest ULC, an unlimited liability company organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta (Intrawest Canada), to an indirect subsidiary of the Company. Concurrently, $1.1 billion of notes payable to affiliates, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon, were exchanged for our common stock and subsequently canceled. Our subsidiaries were released from all obligations, including guarantor obligations, in respect of an additional $355.6 million of notes payable to affiliates, including accrued and unpaid interest thereon. These transactions are collectively referred to as the Restructuring. The Restructuring was accounted for as a transaction among entities under common control as Intrawest Resorts Holdings, Inc. and the Partnership were, since August 30, 2013, and continue to be, under the common control of entities managed or controlled by Fortress Investment Group, LLC, (collectively, Fortress). See Part I - Item 1, Financial Statements (unaudited), Note 1, Formation and Business. Refinancing In conjunction with the Restructuring, on December 9, 2013, we entered into a new credit agreement (the New Credit Agreement) providing for a $540.0 million term loan facility (the Term Loan), a $25.0 million senior secured first-lien revolving loan facility (the New Revolver), and a $55.0 million senior secured first-lien letters of credit facility (the New LC Facility, together with the Term Loan and New Revolver, collectively referred to herein as the FY14 Loans). For a description of the FY14 Loans, see Part I - Item 1, Financial Statements (unaudited), Note 7, Long-Term Debt and Notes Payable to Affiliates. The proceeds from the Term Loan, together with cash on hand and $48.3 million contributed to us by Fortress, were used to refinance and extinguish the existing debt under the First Lien Credit Agreement dated December 4, 2012 (the FY13 First Lien Loans) and the Second Lien Credit Agreement, also dated December 4, 2012 (the FY13 Second Lien Loans, together with the FY13 First Lien Loans, collectively referred to herein as the FY13 Lien Loans). The refinancing was accounted for as an extinguishment of debt resulting in a pre-tax loss of $35.5 million during the nine months ended March 31, 2014, consisting of the difference between the principal value and the fair value of the FY13 Lien Loans and write-off of unamortized financing costs and unamortized original issue discount (OID). Reverse Stock Split On January 21, 2014, we effected a 0.974-for-1 reverse stock split with no change in par value. This transaction was treated as a stock split for accounting purposes and all share and per share data is presented as if the reverse stock split occurred at the beginning of all periods presented. Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to common stockholders for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013 and 2014 were computed using the number of shares outstanding after giving effect to the Restructuring and the 0.974-for-1 reverse stock split. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Initial Public Offering On February 5, 2014, we completed our initial public offering (IPO). We sold 3,125,000 shares of our common stock at $12.00 per share and Fortress sold an additional 14,843,750 shares of our common stock, including 2,343,750 shares sold on February 18, 2014 upon exercise of an option granted to the underwriters. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of our common stock by Fortress. After deducting $2.4 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and $6.6 million of offering expenses payable by us, we received net proceeds of $28.5 million. See Part I - Item 1, Financial Statements (unaudited), Note 1, Formation and Business. Factors Affecting our Business Economic Conditions. Our results of operations are affected by consumer discretionary spending. Numerous economic trends support the notion that the health of the general economy is improving. We believe that as the economy continues to improve, consumers will have more disposable income and a greater inclination to engage in and spend on leisure activities, which will positively impact our results of operations. Snowfall and Weather. The timing and amount of snowfall and other weather conditions can have a significant impact on visitation and financial results in our Mountain and Adventure segments. Our resorts are geographically diversified and have strong snowmaking capabilities, which helps to mitigate the impact of localized snow conditions and weather. In addition, our increasing percentage of revenue derived from season pass and frequency products sold prior to the ski season helps to insulate us from variations in snowfall and weather conditions. Prolonged periods of severe weather at our resorts and heli-skiing tenures can force us to cancel or suspend operations which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Weather may also have a significant effect on our summer fire suppression activities and flight hours. For example, fire suppression activities were unusually high during the summer of 2012, which was marked by severe drought conditions in the Western United States. In addition, unusually warm and dry weather experienced in California during the 2013/2014 ski season reduced demand for lodging, lowering revenue per available room at our condominium hotel at Mammoth, which impacted our Real Estate segment in fiscal 2014. Season Pass and Frequency Product Usage. Season pass products offer unlimited access to lifts at our resorts, subject to certain exceptions and restrictions, for a fixed upfront payment. Frequency pass products are valid for a specific period of time or number of visits, providing our customers with flexibility to ski on multiple dates for a fixed price. The number of visits from season pass and frequency product holders is influenced by sales volume and usage levels. In recent ski seasons, season pass and frequency product sales have been increasing, while usage levels vary from one ski season to the next due primarily to changes in weather, snowfall and skiing conditions. A greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders puts downward pressure on the effective ticket price (ETP) since these passholders are skiing for a fixed upfront payment, regardless of the number of times they visit. This downward pressure on ETP is more pronounced in ski seasons with higher snowfall, as season pass holders increase their usage. Similarly, a greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders puts downward pressure on Mountain Segment Revenue Per Visit as season pass and frequency product holders are less likely to purchase ancillary products and services relative to non-season pass and frequency product holders. We expect season pass and frequency product sales and the pricing of these products to continue to increase in future ski seasons, however ETP and Mountain Segment Revenue Per Visit in any given ski season may decrease as a result of favorable snow conditions, as favorable snow conditions are associated with increased visitation by holders of season pass and frequency products. For the three and nine months ended March 31, 2013, 32.3% and 32.8%, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2014, 36.2% and 37.2%, respectively, of total lift revenue consisted of season pass and frequency product revenue. Resort Real Estate Markets. We intend to resume development of residential vacation homes at our mountain resorts when market conditions are favorable. The value and sales volume of vacation homes fluctuate with macro-economic trends and consumer sentiment. Macroeconomic conditions have improved over the past two years, which has supported a partial recovery in the market for vacation homes in the United States and Canada. However, despite these trends, the median vacation home price and number of vacation homes sold in the most recent year still remain well below the peak, suggesting ample room for continued growth. Seasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results. Our business is seasonal in nature. Although each of our mountain resorts operates as a four-season resort, based upon historical results, we generate the highest revenue during our second and third fiscal quarters, which is the peak ski season. Similarly, CMH generates the majority of its revenue during our second and third fiscal quarters, which is the peak heli-skiing season. As a result of the 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS seasonality of our business, our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, throughout our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Years and Presidents Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or less peak periods, holidays and weekends in our second fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our third fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations. We are subject to risks related to currency fluctuations. We present our financial statements in United States dollars. Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenues and operating expenses are transacted in Canadian dollars, principally at Tremblant and within our Adventure segment. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into United States dollars. See