ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking Statements" included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a North American mountain resort, adventure, and real estate company, delivering distinctive vacation and travel experiences to our customers for over three decades. We wholly-own six four-season mountain resorts with approximately 8,000 skiable acres and over 1,130 acres of land available for real estate development. Our mountain resorts are geographically diversified across North America's major ski regions, including the Eastern United States, the Rocky Mountains and Canada. Our mountain resorts are located within an average of approximately 160 miles of major metropolitan markets with high concentrations of affluent skiers and several major national airports, including: New York City, Boston, Washington D.C., Denver, Pittsburgh, Montreal and Toronto. We also operate an adventure travel business, which includes Canadian Mountain Holidays ("CMH"), a leading heli-skiing adventure company in North America. CMH provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering and hiking over approximately 3.0 million tenured acres. Additionally, we operate a comprehensive real estate business through which we manage condominium hotel properties and sell and market residential real estate. Our three segments are as follows: Mountain : Our Mountain segment includes our mountain resort and lodging operations at Steamboat Ski & Resort ("Steamboat"), Winter Park Resort ("Winter Park"), Stratton Mountain Resort ("Stratton"), Snowshoe Mountain Resort ("Snowshoe"), Mont Tremblant Resort ("Tremblant"), and Blue Mountain Ski Resort ("Blue Mountain"). Our Mountain segment includes our 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain prior to our acquisition of the remaining 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain on September 19, 2014 ("Blue Mountain Acquisition"). Adventure: Our Adventure segment is comprised of CMH, which provides helicopter accessed skiing, mountaineering, and hiking in British Columbia, and our ancillary businesses that support CMH and provide commercial aviation services, such as firefighting, leasing and helicopter maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO") services to third parties. Real Estate : Our Real Estate segment includes our real estate management, marketing and sales businesses, as well as our real estate development activities. Our Real Estate segment includes Intrawest Hospitality Management, Inc. ("IHM"), which manages condominium hotel properties, Playground, our residential real estate sales and marketing business, our 50.0% interest in Mammoth Hospitality Management L.L.C. ("MHM") and our 57.1% economic interest in Chateau M.T. Inc. ("Chateau"), and included the Intrawest Resort Club Group ("IRCG") division, a vacation club business, until we sold the business on January 29, 2016 (the "Disposition Date"). Our Real Estate segment also includes costs associated with real estate development activities, such as planning activities and land carrying costs. In addition to our segments, our consolidated financial results reflect items related to our legacy real estate development and sales activities and non-core assets and operations (referred to herein as "Legacy, non-core and other"). Recent Transactions Amendment to Credit Agreement On April 8, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries that guarantee our Senior Debt, as defined in Part I - Item 1, Financial Statements (unaudited), Note 6, "Long-Term Debt", executed the fourth amendment to our existing Credit Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2013 (the "Credit Agreement"), (the "Fourth Amendment"). All capitalized terms used in connection with discussion of the Fourth Amendment but not therein defined have the meaning assigned to them in the Credit Agreement and/or the Fourth Amendment. The Fourth Amendment, among other items, increased the applicable margins for base rate loans and Euro dollar rate loans under the Term Loan from 2.75% to 3.00% and from 3.75% to 4.00%, respectively. Additionally, solely for purposes of calculating the permissible amount of Incremental 22 Table of Contents Term Loan borrowings, the amount of Unrestricted Cash to be deducted from the Company's Total Secured Debt was reduced to amounts in excess of $65.0 million, instead of amounts in excess of $40.0 million. The Fourth Amendment also modified the former requirement that the Net Cash Proceeds from any disposition of our property be used solely to reinvest in assets useful in our business or to repay the amounts due under our term loan facility (the "Term Loan") so that the Net Cash Proceeds received from the sale of certain specified assets may now also be used by us for other purposes, including for Restricted Payments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions described therein. Additionally, the Fourth Amendment amended Section 6.1 of the Credit Agreement by deleting the proviso thereto in its entirety, which provided that we were not subject to the financial covenant defined therein when the outstanding amount of the Revolving Loans plus the Swing Line Loans plus the Revolving Facility Letter of Credit Usage was less than 30% of the aggregate Revolving Commitments. Pursuant to the Fourth Amendment, we will now be subject to the financial covenant defined therein on the last day of each Test Period. The Fourth Amendment also revised the definition of "Permitted Acquisition" so that after an acquisition instead of requiring Pro Forma Compliance with a Total Secured Debt Ratio of 5.50:1:00 or a ratio that is no higher than before the Permitted Acquisition, it now requires Pro Forma Compliance with a Total Gross Debt Leverage Ratio of 5.50:1.00. Additionally, the definition was further amended to require that any acquisition must be in a substantially related business. Stock Tender On January 12, 2016, we announced the commencement of a modified "Dutch auction" self-tender offer ("Tender Offer") to purchase for cash up to $50.0 million of shares of our common stock at a price per share not greater than $10.00 nor less than $9.00, less applicable withholding taxes and without interest. The Tender Offer expired on February 10, 2016. Pursuant to the Tender Offer, we purchased approximately 5.6 million shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $9.00 per share. The tendered shares were accounted for as treasury stock, at cost, and resulted in a reduction of the outstanding shares used to calculate the weighted-average common shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share. IRCG Transaction On November 24, 2015, we, through our wholly owned indirect subsidiaries, Intrawest U.S. Holdings Inc. and Intrawest ULC, entered into a definitive agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") to sell IRCG to Diamond Resorts Corporation (the "Purchaser") and Diamond Resorts International, Inc. (together with the Purchaser, "Diamond") for a purchase price of approximately $84.6 million (the "IRCG Transaction"), which includes certain purchase price adjustments . IRCG is engaged in the business of developing, selling interests in, and managing (a) Club Intrawest, a points-based timeshare vacation club at certain locations in the United States, Canada and Mexico, (b) a fractional timeshare program with properties located in Zihuatanejo, Mexico, and (c) an internal exchange program for members of the vacation club operated through Extraordinary Escapes Corporation. The purchase price consisted of cash consideration and the assumption of certain liabilities, including certain lease obligations and certain other continuing contractual obligations. The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities of the parties. Upon closing the IRCG Transaction on January 29, 2016, Diamond acquired substantially all of the assets used in the operations of IRCG, including, but not limited to, certain management contracts, accounts receivable, notes and other amounts receivable, certain real property, the resort points available for sale, and all of the equity interests in certain wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries of IRCG. Blue Mountain Acquisition On September 19, 2014 (the "Acquisition Date"), we acquired the remaining 50.0% equity interest in Blue Mountain that we did not already own from Blue Mountain Resorts Holdings Inc. ("Blue Mountain Holdings") for a purchase price of $61.4 million Canadian dollars ("CAD"), or approximately $54.8 million U.S. dollars ("USD") based on prevailing exchange rates on the Acquisition Date, in a privately negotiated transaction. In connection with the Blue Mountain Acquisition, the shareholders' agreement between us and Blue Mountain Holdings was terminated. The purchase price, along with fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Blue Mountain Acquisition, were financed through an incremental amendment, dated as of September 19, 2014 (the "Incremental Amendment"), to the Credit Agreement, and existing cash. The Incremental Amendment has the same economic and other terms as the original term loan facility under the Credit Agreement. 23 Table of Contents Factors Affecting our Business Economic Conditions Our results of operations are affected by consumer discretionary spending. Numerous economic trends support the notion that the health of the general economy has improved in recent periods. We believe that if the economy continues to improve, consumers will have more disposable income and a greater inclination to engage in and spend money on leisure activities, which will positively impact our results of operations. We also believe that lower fuel prices experienced in recent periods can, if sustained, benefit the travel and leisure industry. Snowfall and Weather The timing and amount of snowfall and other weather conditions can have an impact on visitation and the financial results in our Mountain and Adventure segments. Our resorts are geographically diversified and have strong snowmaking capabilities, which help to partially mitigate the impact of localized snow conditions and weather. In addition, our increasing percentage of revenue derived from season pass and frequency products sold prior to the ski season helps to insulate us from variations in snowfall and weather conditions. Prolonged periods of severe weather at our resorts and helicopter accessed skiing tenures can force us to cancel or suspend operations, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. Weather may also have an effect on our summer fire suppression activities and flight hours, as a significant share of our ancillary firefighting service revenue is from "as needed" contracts, which is based almost entirely on flight hours. Season Pass and Frequency Product Usage Season pass products offer unlimited access to lifts at our resorts, subject to certain exceptions and restrictions, for a fixed upfront payment. Frequency products are valid for a specific period of time or number of visits, providing our customers with flexibility to ski on multiple dates for a fixed price. The number of visits from season pass and frequency product holders is influenced by sales volume and usage levels. In recent ski seasons, season pass and frequency product sales have been increasing, while usage levels vary from one ski season to the next due primarily to changes in weather, snowfall and skiing conditions. A greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders results in downward pressure on the effective ticket price ("ETP") since these passholders are skiing for a fixed upfront payment, regardless of the number of times they visit. This downward pressure on ETP is more pronounced in ski seasons with higher snowfall, as season pass holders increase their usage. Similarly, a greater proportion of visits from season pass and frequency product holders may result in downward pressure on Revenue Per Visit, as defined in "Key Business Metrics Evaluated by Management". We expect the volume and pricing of season pass and frequency product sales to continue to increase in future ski seasons; however, ETP and Revenue Per Visit in any given ski season may increase or decrease as a result of the mix of visitors and pass products. Seasonality and Fluctuations in Quarterly Results Our business is seasonal in nature. Although we operate four-season resorts, based upon historical results, we generate the highest revenue between our second and third fiscal quarters, which includes the peak ski season. As a result of the seasonality of our business, our mountain resorts and CMH typically experience operating losses during the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. In addition, during our peak quarters, we generate the highest daily revenue on weekends, during the Christmas/New Year's and Presidents' Day holiday periods and, in the case of our mountain resorts, during school spring breaks. Depending on how peak periods, holidays and weekends fall on the calendar, in any given year we may have more or less peak periods, holidays and weekends in our second fiscal quarter compared to prior years, with a corresponding difference in our third fiscal quarter. These differences can result in material differences in our quarterly results of operations and affect the comparability of our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents The following table contains selected unaudited segment information for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and the four preceding quarters (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 September 30, 2015 June 30, 2015 March 31, 2015 Mountain revenue $ 255,357 $ 79,436 $ 49,758 $ 36,869 $ 258,092 Adventure revenue 48,835 12,368 24,263 19,362 44,579 Real Estate revenue 9,973 11,403 11,812 11,416 17,635 Total segment revenue $ 314,165 $ 103,207 $ 85,833 $ 67,647 $ 320,306 Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 September 30, 2015 June 30, 2015 March 31, 2015 Mountain Adjusted EBITDA $ 136,704 $ (5,136 ) $ (20,787 ) $ (25,222 ) $ 135,721 Adventure Adjusted EBITDA 21,246 (3,489 ) 4,860 538 15,449 Real Estate Adjusted EBITDA 3,346 1,697 1,773 966 5,221 Total Adjusted EBITDA $ 161,296 $ (6,928 ) $ (14,154 ) $ (23,718 ) $ 156,391 See "Non-GAAP Financial measures" below for reconciliations between non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP (as defined below) measures. Resort Real Estate Markets We intend to resume development of residential vacation homes at our mountain resorts when market conditions are favorable. The value and sales volume of vacation homes fluctuate with macroeconomic trends and consumer sentiment. During recent periods we have seen a partial recovery in the market for vacation homes. Foreign Currency Fluctuation Risk We present our financial statements in USD. Our operating results are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue and operating expenses is transacted in CAD dollars, principally at Tremblant, Blue Mountain and within our Adventure segment. A significant fluctuation in the Canada/U.S. exchange rate could therefore have a significant impact on our results of operations after translating our Canadian operations into USD. See Part I - Item 3,