Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. You should read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as SoFi Technologies audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023 and subsequent filings with the SEC. Certain amounts may not foot or tie to other disclosures due to rounding. Certain information in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described under the sections entitled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Business Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as members and clients. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members Get Your Money Right and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. In order to help achieve our mission, we offer personal loans, student loans and home loans and related servicing. We also offer a variety of financial services products, such as SoFi Money, SoFi Credit Card, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay, that provide more daily interactions with our members, and we offer products and capabilities, such as SoFi At Work, that are designed to appeal to enterprises. We have also made strategic acquisitions to further expand our platform capabilities for enterprises, which we believe will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services. Our three reportable segments and their primary product offerings as of September 30, 2023 were as follows: Members We have created an innovative financial services platform designed to offer best-in-class products to meet the broad objectives of our members and the lifecycle of their financial needs. Our platform offers our members (as defined under Key 50 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Business Metrics) a suite of financial products and services, enabling them to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their finances across one integrated platform, as well as personal financial management tools and benefits to complement our products. Our aim is to create a best-in-class, integrated financial services platform that will generate a virtuous cycle whereby positive member experiences will lead to new product adoption by existing members and enhanced profitability for each additional product by lowering overall member acquisition costs and increasing the lifetime value of our members. We refer to this virtuous cycle as our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We believe that developing a relationship with our members and gaining their trust is central to our success as a financial services platform. Moreover, we believe that some of the current frictions faced by other financial institutions are caused by a disjointed and non-seamless product experience, a lack of digital customer acquisition, subpar mobile web products instead of digital native apps and incomplete product offerings to meet a customers holistic financial needs. Through our mobile technology and continuous effort to improve our financial services products, we are seeking to build a financial services platform that can support all of our members financial services needs throughout their lifetime. Enterprises In addition to benefiting our members, our products and capabilities are also designed to appeal to enterprises, such as financial services institutions that subscribe to our enterprise services, and have become interconnected with the SoFi platform. We have continued to expand our platform capabilities for enterprises through strategic acquisitions, including: (i) our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, which provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions and which has allowed us to vertically integrate across more of our financial services, and (ii) the Technisys Merger in the first quarter of 2022, through which we added a cloud-native digital and core banking platform into our technology platform offerings and expanded our technology platform services to a broader international market. These expansions have deepened our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services, allowing us to not only reduce costs to operate our member-centric business, but also deliver increasing value to our enterprise customers. While our enterprises are not considered members, they are important contributors to the growth of the SoFi platform, and also have their own constituents who might benefit from our products in the future. SoFi Bank In February 2022, we closed the Bank Merger, pursuant to which we became a bank holding company and began operating SoFi Bank. Golden Pacifics community bank business continues to operate as a division of SoFi Bank. As a bank holding company, we offer checking and savings accounts and credit cards through SoFi Bank. We are originating all new loan applications within SoFi Bank, and intend to continue to explore other products for SoFi Bank over time. The key current and expected financial benefits to us of operating a national bank include: (i) lowering our cost to fund loans, as we can utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund loans, which have a lower borrowing cost of funds than our warehouse and securitization financing model, (ii) increasing our flexibility to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer periods, thereby enabling us to earn interest on these loans for a longer period, (iii) supporting origination volume growth by providing an alternative financing option, while also maintaining our warehouse capacity, and (iv) through deposits, providing us with meaningful member data that can allow us to better serve our members financial needs. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of certain potential risks related to being a bank holding company. International Operations While we primarily operate in the United States, we also operate internationally in Latin America and Canada largely through Galileo and Technisys, as well as in Hong Kong through our acquisition of 8 Limited (an investment business) in 2020. Our Reportable Segments We conduct our business through three reportable segments: Lending, Technology Platform and Financial Services. Below is a discussion of our segments and their primary products and non-product offerings. Lending Segment We offer personal loans, student loans and home loans and related servicing. We believe that our market opportunity within each of these lending channels is significant. Our lending process primarily leverages an in-application, digital borrowing experience, which we believe serves as a competitive advantage as digital lending becomes increasingly ubiquitous. Furthermore, our platform supports the full transaction lifecycle, including credit application, underwriting, approval, funding and servicing. Through data derived at loan origination and throughout the servicing process, we have life-of-loan performance data on each loan in our ecosystem that we originate and on which we retain servicing, which provides a meaningful data asset. 51 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net interest income, which we define as the difference between the earned interest income and interest expense to finance loans, is a key component of the profitability of our Lending segment. We implemented an FTP framework to attribute net interest income to our business segments based on their usage and/or provision of funding, under which Lending segment net interest income represents the difference between interest income earned on our loans and an FTP charge for the segments use of funds to originate loans, which can fluctuate based on changes in interest rates, funding curves, the composition of our balance sheet and the availability of capital. See Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the FTP framework. Personal Loans. We originate personal loans to help our members with a variety of financial needs, such as debt consolidation, home improvement projects, family planning, travel and weddings, to name a few. We offer fixed rate loans with flexible repayment terms, including unemployment protection. We generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 to $100,000, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 2 to 7 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our personal loans. Student Loans. We operate in the student loan refinance space, with a focus on prime and super-prime school loans, as well as the in-school lending space, which allows members to borrow funds while they attend school. We offer flexible loan sizes, repayment options and competitive rates. Within student loan refinancing, we generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 20 years. Within in-school loans, we generally offer loan sizes of $1,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 15 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our fixed and variable-rate student loans. Home Loans. We offer agency, non-agency and, beginning in the second quarter of 2023, certain government loans (e.g., VA and Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loans) for members purchasing a home or refinancing an existing mortgage. For our home loan products, we offer competitive rates, flexible down payment options for as little as 3% (or 0% for VA loans), a close on time guarantee, and educational tools and calculators. We generally offer loan sizes of $75,000 to $726,200 for one-unit properties in conforming normal cost areas (with exceptions for smaller loan sizes considered on a case-by-case basis), up to $1,089,300 for one-unit properties in conforming high cost areas (GSE-eligible loans above the normal conforming limit, which is determined by county), and up to $2,095,200 for multi-unit properties in conforming normal cost and conforming high cost areas, respectively. In addition, we offer loan sizes up to $3,000,000 for jumbo loans (loans in the jumbo loan program), up to $1,500,000 for VA loans, and up to $472,030 for FHA loans in most areas. Our fixed rate home loans generally have terms of 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years. We offer adjustable rate mortgage products for conforming and jumbo loans, with a fixed rate for 5, 7 or 10 years followed by rate adjustments every six months for the remainder of the 30-year term, and for VA loans, with a fixed rate for 5 years followed by rate adjustments every year for the remainder of the 30-year term. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our home loans. Lending Model Although our lending business remains primarily a gain-on-sale model, whereby we seek to originate loans, recognize a gain from these loans and sell them into either our whole loan or securitization channels, operating SoFi Bank has also provided us with more flexibility to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer periods, thereby enabling us to maximize our return and balance our risk by earning interest on these loans for a longer period and to be selective in our sales arrangements. We sell our whole loans primarily to large financial institutions, such as bank holding companies. In securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale accounting, the related assets remain on our balance sheet and cash proceeds received are reported as liabilities, with related interest expense recognized over the life of the related borrowing. In securitization transactions that qualify for sale accounting, we typically have insignificant continuing involvement as an investor. In the case of both whole loan sales and securitizations, and with the exception of certain of our home loans, we also continue to retain servicing rights to our originated loans following transfer. We view servicing as an integral component of the Lending segment, as we believe our servicing function is an important asset because of the connection to the member it affords us throughout the life of the loan. We directly service all of the personal loans that we originate. We act as master servicer for, and rely on sub-servicers to directly service, all of our student loans and GSE conforming home loans. We believe this ongoing relationship with our members enhances the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop by increasing member touchpoints and driving new product adoption by existing members. We rely upon deposits, warehouse financing and our own capital to enable us to continue to expand our origination capabilities. Our ability to utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans has lowered our overall cost of asset-backed financing relative to alternative sources of funding. 52 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Underwriting Process We have developed an extensive underwriting process across each lending product that is focused on willingness to pay (measured by credit attributes and risk scores), ability to pay (measured through income and free cash flow), and stability (measured by credit experience). A key element of our underwriting process is the ability to facilitate risk-based interest rates that we believe are appropriate for each loan using proprietary risk models through which we project quarterly loan performance, including expected losses and prepayments. We believe the outcome of this process helps us determine a more data-driven, risk-adjusted interest rate that we can offer our members. Our personal loan and student loan underwriting models are typically based on credit reports, industry credit and bankruptcy prediction models, custom credit assessment models, and debt capacity analysis, as indicated by borrower free cash flow. Our underwriting strategy utilizes an advanced risk model that provides refined risk separation. Home loans originated by SoFi that are agency-conforming loans are subject to credit, debt service, and collateral eligibility established by GSEs. Government loans, such as VA and FHA loans, are subject to the underwriting requirements established by the appropriate government agency. In addition to these requirements, agency-conforming and government loans are subject to credit eligibility overlays imposed by SoFi as well as individual investor requirements. Other non-agency loans originated by us, such as Jumbo loans, are subject to investor credit criteria, which typically includes a minimum tri-bureau credit score, established credit history requirements, income verification, as well as maximum limits on debt-to-income service and caps on loan-to-value based on an accredited appraisal. We also leverage our data to provide existing members a streamlined application process through automation. Across our loan products, existing members generally experience a higher approval rate than new members, subject to the existing member being in good standing on their existing products. Technology Platform Segment Our Technology Platform segment consists of Galileo and Technisys. Through Galileo, we provide technology platform services through a suite of program, event and authorization application programming interfaces for financial and non-financial institutions. Technisys is a cloud-native digital and core banking platform with financial services customers predominantly in Latin America. Through Technisys, we earn technology product and solutions revenue through sales of software licenses and the provision of maintenance and support services related to those software licenses. We also provide additional technology solutions for our clients as their business needs evolve over time, which we refer to as evolution labs. We earn technology products and solutions fees for providing an integrated platform as a service for financial and non-financial institutions. Many technology platform segment contracts are multi-year contracts. In certain of our contracts, we provide for a variety of integrated platform services, which vary by client and are either non-cancellable or cancellable with a substantive payment. Pricing structures under these contracts are typically volume-based, or a combination of activity and volume-based, and payment terms are predominantly monthly in arrears. Many of these contracts contain minimum monthly payments, which may result in credits if we do not meet the agreed upon monthly service levels. We also earn subscription and service fees for providing software licenses and associated services, including implementation, maintenance and subsequent development work. We charge a recurring subscription fee for the software license and related maintenance services. Other software-related services are billed on a periodic basis as the services are provided. Certain arrangements for software and related services contain a provision for a fixed upfront payment. Financial Services Segment Our suite of financial services products, by nature, provides more daily interactions with our members and is, therefore, differentiated from our lending products, which inherently have less consistent touchpoints with our members. We offer a suite of financial services solutions, the most significant of which are discussed below. SoFi Money: Checking and savings accounts provide a digital banking experience. Following the Bank Merger, we began to allow members to convert their cash management accounts into checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank. SoFi Invest: A mobile-first investment platform offering members access to trading and advisory solutions, such as active investing, robo-advisory and digital assets accounts. Our interactive investing experience fosters engagement by allowing members to view and monitor other investors activity on the platform. SoFi Credit Card: Designed to help our members save, invest and pay down debt through a variable rewards program, with higher rewards offerings when redeeming into other SoFi products. Our credit card product features no annual fee and cash back rewards on purchases. 53 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Loan referrals: A service through which we present loan referral leads to our affiliate partners. SoFi Relay: A personal finance management product that allows members to track all of their financial accounts in one place and gain meaningful insights into their financial health and habits, such as credit score monitoring and spending behaviors. SoFi Relay also provides us with unified intelligence about our members that offers information about what SoFi products and features may help our members best achieve their financial goals, allowing us to further personalize the SoFi experience for our members. Lantern Credit: A financial services marketplace platform developed to help applicants that do not qualify for SoFi products seek alternative products from other providers, as well as to provide a product comparison experience. We believe that the content and features we provide within our mobile application can spur more financial education, which leads to more ways for our members to actively engage in getting their money right and can ultimately demonstrate the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We earn revenues in connection with our Financial Services segment primarily in the following ways: Net interest income: Net interest income is a key component of the profitability of our Financial Services segment as it relates primarily to our SoFi Money and credit card products. Net interest income on SoFi Money is based on interest income determined using our FTP framework, net of interest expense based on the interest rate offered to our members on their deposits. Net interest income on credit card is based on the contractual interest included in credit card agreements, net of interest expense as determined using the FTP framework. See Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the FTP framework. Referral fees: Through strategic partnerships, we earn a specified referral fee in connection with referral activity we facilitate through our platform. Referral fees are paid to us by third-party partners that offer services to end users who do not use one of our product offerings, but who were referred to the partners through our platform. We also earn referral fulfillment fees for providing pre-qualified borrower referrals to a third-party partner who separately contracts with a loan originator. Our referral fee is calculated as either a fixed price per successful referral or a percentage of the transaction volume between the enterprise partners and referred consumers. Interchange fees: We earn interchange fees from our SoFi-branded debit cards and credit cards, which are reduced by fees payable to card associations and other third parties. These fees are remitted by merchants and represent a percentage of the underlying transaction value processed through a payment network. We arrange for performance by a card association and bank issuer to enable certain aspects of the SoFi-branded transaction card process. We enter into contracts that establish the shared economics of SoFi-branded transaction cards. Brokerage fees: We earn brokerage fees primarily from our share lending and payment for order flow arrangements related to our SoFi Invest product and digital assets activity. In our share lending arrangements and payment for order flow arrangements, we benefit through a negotiated multi-year revenue sharing arrangement, since our members' brokerage activity drives the share lending and payment for order flow volume. In our digital assets arrangements, our fee is calculated as a negotiated percentage of the transaction volume. Business Highlights We achieved strong results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, including record total net revenue of $537.2 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, representing increases of 27% and 35% over total net revenue in the same periods of 2022, respectively. We realized strong momentum in member and product growth and cross-buy adds, reflecting the benefits of our broad product suite and Financial Services Productivity Loop strategy. We added approximately 2.2 million new members from the end of the third quarter of 2022, with 7.0 million total members as of September 30, 2023, a 47% year-over-year increase. We also added 3.2 million new products over this time period, with 10.4 million total products as of September 30, 2023, a 45% year-over-year increase. Lending segment contribution profit of $204.0 million and $597.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, at a margin of 58% and 59%, respectively, increased 13% and 31% over the respective 2022 periods, which had a contribution margin of 60% and 56%, respectively. Additionally, average net interest margin of 5.99% and 5.84% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, increased 13 and 69 basis points, respectively, compared to 5.86% and 5.15% in the respective 2022 periods. Growth in net interest income was driven by an increase in both average interest-earning assets and average yields, partially offset by an increase in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Year-over-year origination volume increased 48% and 31% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, 54 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS primarily driven by demand for personal loans and despite continued macroeconomic headwinds in the student and home loan businesses. Student loans saw some increasing demand in the third quarter of 2023 ahead of the resumption of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans, and we expect that we may continue to see an increase in student loan refinancing. Our acquisition of Wyndham in the second quarter of 2023 provided increased capacity and capabilities for our home loans product, which contributed to a notable year-over-year increase in the second and third quarters of 2023, and which we expect to continue to provide benefits during the remainder of the year. Technology Platform segment total net revenue increased 6% and 11% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the respective 2022 periods, while contribution profit of $32.2 million and $64.2 million increased 65% and 8%, respectively. Margin improvements were driven primarily by Galileo account growth and decreases in directly attributable expenses, as we begin to realize the benefits of earlier investments made to support Technology Platform product development and the integration of Galileo and Technisys. The year-to-date comparison was also impacted by a partial period of contribution from Technisys in 2022 compared to a full period of contribution in 2023. We have shifted our strategy to target larger potential clients with larger existing businesses, business-to-business clients and a more durable client base, which is expected to have a longer sales cycle. In addition, we continue to pursue a diversified durable growth strategy with expansion via new products and geographies. We expect growth in segment revenue to continue to accelerate during the remainder of the year, with increased contribution from new clients along with greater product adoption among existing clients. Within Financial Services, contribution profit (loss) of $3.3 million and $(25.3) million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, significantly improved compared to $(52.6) million and $(155.8) million in the respective 2022 periods, and total net revenue of $118.2 million and $297.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, increased 142% and 189% over the respective 2022 periods. We achieved continued strong growth in deposits, ending the period with $15.7 billion of deposits, allowing us to maintain diversified sources of funding and driving an increase in net interest income earned on our deposits. In addition, we grew total Financial Services products by 50% year over year. We continue to realize scale in our marketing spend and improvement in operating leverage in the segment. We expect to continue to scale our products through increased brand awareness and network effects and to be contribution profit positive in the segment at the end of 2023 and beyond. The strength of our results underscores our belief that our suite of differentiated products and services provides the foundation for a diversified business that can endure through market cycles as well as exogenous factors. For instance, our deposit funding increases our flexibility to capture additional net interest margin and optimize returns, which typically provides more stable earnings in any macroeconomic environment, but is particularly important during times of excess macroeconomic volatility. During 2023, we continued to have strong deposit contribution from direct deposit members with a high quality median FICO score. We expect that our funding mix will continue to move towards deposit funding, which has a lower borrowing cost of funds than our warehouse and securitization financing model. We also provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks, further enhancing our benefits offering to our members. Our Tier 1 capital ratio, as calculated under applicable regulatory capital rules, was 14.3% as of September 30, 2023. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management and Board of Directors use adjusted net revenue and adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating performance, formulate business plans, help better assess our overall liquidity position, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. Accordingly, we believe that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. Adjusted Net Revenue Adjusted net revenue is defined as total net revenue, adjusted to exclude the fair value changes in servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation inputs and assumptions changes, which relate only to our Lending segment. We adjust total net revenue to exclude these items, as they are non-cash charges that are not realized during the period, and therefore positive or negative changes do not impact the cash available to fund our operations. This measure helps provide our management with an understanding of the net revenue available to finance our operations and helps management better decide on the proper expenses to authorize for each of our operating segments, to ultimately help achieve target contribution profit margins. Therefore, the measure of adjusted net revenue serves as both the starting point for how we think about the liquidity generated from our operations and also the starting point for our annual financial planning, the latter of which focuses on the cash we expect to generate from our operating segments to help fund the current years strategic objectives. Adjusted net revenue has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as total net revenue. The primary limitation of adjusted net revenue is its lack of 55 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS comparability to other companies that do not utilize this measure or that use a similar measure that is defined in a different manner. Total Net Revenue and Adjusted Net Revenue In Thousands The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Total net revenue $ 537,209 $ 423,985 $ 1,507,385 $ 1,116,856 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (7,420) (6,182) (28,105) (26,860) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 928 1,453 415 7,078 Adjusted net revenue $ 530,717 $ 419,256 $ 1,479,695 $ 1,097,074 ___________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on servicing rights, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. These assumptions are highly sensitive to market interest rate changes and are not indicative of our performance or results of operations. Moreover, these non-cash charges are unrealized during the period and, therefore, have no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on residual interests classified as debt, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated securitization VIEs by purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the closing of the securitization and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These residual debt obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, but they have no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations. The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 September 30, 2022 Total net revenue $ 537,209 $ 498,018 $ 472,158 $ 456,679 $ 423,985 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (7,420) (8,601) (12,084) (12,791) (6,182) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 928 (602) 89 (470) 1,453 Adjusted net revenue $ 530,717 $ 488,815 $ 460,163 $ 443,418 $ 419,256 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. 56 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The reconciling items to determine our non-GAAP measure of adjusted net revenue are applicable only to the Lending segment. The table below presents adjusted net revenue for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Total net revenue Lending $ 348,973 $ 301,694 $ 1,017,495 $ 811,800 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (7,420) (6,182) (28,105) (26,860) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 928 1,453 415 7,078 Adjusted net revenue Lending $ 342,481 $ 296,965 $ 989,805 $ 792,018 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude, as applicable: (i) corporate borrowing-based interest expense (our adjusted EBITDA measure is not adjusted for warehouse or securitization-based interest expense, nor deposit interest expense and finance lease liability interest expense, as these are not direct operating expenses), (ii) income tax expense (benefit), (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) share-based expense (inclusive of equity-based payments to non-employees), (v) impairment expense (inclusive of goodwill impairment and property, equipment and software abandonments), (vi) transaction-related expenses, (vii) fair value changes in warrant liabilities, (viii) fair value changes in each of servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation assumptions, and (ix) other charges, as appropriate, that are not expected to recur and are not indicative of our core operating performance. We believe adjusted EBITDA provides a useful measure for period-over-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effects of certain non-cash items and certain charges that are not indicative of our core operating performance or results of operations. It is also a measure that management relies upon to evaluate cash flows generated from operations, and therefore the extent of additional capital, if any, required to invest in strategic initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net income (loss). Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include that it does not reflect the impact of working capital requirements or capital expenditures and it is not a universally consistent calculation among companies in our industry, which limits its usefulness as a comparative measure. Net Loss and Adjusted EBITDA In Thousands 57 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss $ (266,684) $ (74,209) $ (348,655) $ (280,401) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings(1) 9,784 5,270 26,951 11,369 Income tax (benefit) expense(2) (244) (242) (3,661) 629 Depreciation and amortization(3) 52,516 40,253 147,967 109,007 Share-based expense 62,005 77,855 202,109 235,018 Restructuring charges(4) 4,953 Impairment expense(5) 247,174 248,417 Transaction-related expense(6) (34) 100 142 17,446 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(7) (7,420) (6,182) (28,105) (26,860) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(8) 928 1,453 415 7,078 Total adjustments 364,709 118,507 599,188 353,687 Adjusted EBITDA $ 98,025 $ 44,298 $ 250,533 $ 73,286 ___________________ (1)Our adjusted EBITDA measure adjusts for corporate borrowing-based interest expense, as these expenses are a function of our capital structure. Corporate borrowing-based interest expense includes interest on our revolving credit facility and the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs on our convertible notes. Revolving credit facility interest expense in the 2023 periods increased due to higher interest rates relative to the prior year periods on identical outstanding debt. (2)Income taxes were primarily attributable to tax expense associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required. For the three and nine month 2023 periods, this expense was more than offset by income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. See Note 14. Income Taxes to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)Depreciation and amortization expense for the 2023 periods increased compared to the 2022 periods primarily in connection with acquisitions and growth in our internally-developed software balance. (4)Restructuring charges in the nine-month 2023 period primarily included employee-related wages, benefits and severance associated with a small reduction in headcount in our Technology Platform segment in the first quarter of 2023, which do not reflect expected future operating expenses and are not indicative of our core operating performance. (5)Impairment expense includes $247,174 related to goodwill impairment in the three and nine month 2023 periods, and $1,243 related to a sublease arrangement in the nine month 2023 period, which are not indicative of our core operating performance. (6)Transaction-related expenses in the 2023 and 2022 periods included financial advisory and professional services costs associated with our acquisitions of Wyndham and Technisys, respectively. (7)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including market servicing costs, conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. This non-cash change is unrealized during the period and, therefore, has no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net loss to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. (8)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated VIEs through purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the securitization close and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, which has no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net loss to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. 58 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 September 30, 2022 Net loss $ (266,684) $ (47,549) $ (34,422) $ (40,006) $ (74,209) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings 9,784 9,167 8,000 7,069 5,270 Income tax (benefit) expense (244) (1,780) (1,637) 1,057 (242) Depreciation and amortization 52,516 50,130 45,321 42,353 40,253 Share-based expense 62,005 75,878 64,226 70,976 77,855 Restructuring charges 4,953 Impairment expense 247,174 1,243 Transaction-related expense (34) 176 1,872 100 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions (7,420) (8,601) (12,084) (12,791) (6,182) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions 928 (602) 89 (470) 1,453 Total adjustments 364,709 124,368 110,111 110,066 118,507 Adjusted EBITDA $ 98,025 $ 76,819 $ 75,689 $ 70,060 $ 44,298 Key Business Metrics The table below presents the key business metrics that management uses to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions: September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 % Change Members 6,957,187 4,742,673 47 % Total Products 10,447,806 7,199,298 45 % Total Products Lending segment 1,593,906 1,280,493 24 % Total Products Financial Services segment 8,853,900 5,918,805 50 % Total Accounts Technology Platform segment 136,739,131 124,332,810 10 % See Summary Results by Segment for additional metrics we review at the segment level. Members We refer to our customers as members. We define a member as someone who has a lending relationship with us through origination and/or ongoing servicing, opened a financial services account, linked an external account to our platform, or signed up for our credit score monitoring service. Our members have continuous access to our certified financial planners (CFPs), our career advice services, our member events, our content, educational material, news, and our tools and calculators, which are provided at no cost to the member. Additionally, our mobile app and website have a member home feed that is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. Once someone becomes a member, they are always considered a member unless they violate our terms of service. We adjust our total number of members in the event a member is removed in accordance with our terms of service. This could occur for a variety of reasonsincluding fraud or pursuant to certain legal processesand, as our terms of service evolve together with our business practices, product offerings and applicable regulations, our grounds for removing members from our total member count could change. The determination that a member should be removed in accordance with our terms of service is subject to an evaluation process, following the completion, and based on the results, of which, relevant members and their associated products are removed from our total member count in the period in which such evaluation process concludes. However, depending on the length of the evaluation process, that removal may not take place in the same period in which the member was added to our member count or the same period in which the circumstances leading to their removal occurred. For this reason, our total member count may not yet reflect adjustments that may be made once ongoing evaluation processes, if any, conclude. 59 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS We view members as an indication not only of the size and a measurement of growth of our business, but also as a measure of the significant value of the data we have collected over time. The data we collect from our members helps us to, among other things: (i) assess loan life performance data on each loan in our ecosystem, which can inform risk-based interest rates that we can offer our members, (ii) understand our members spending behavior to identify and suggest other products we offer that may align with the members financial needs, and (iii) enhance our opportunities to sell additional products to our members, as our members represent a vital source of marketing opportunities. When we provide additional products to members, it helps improve our unit economics per member, as we save on marketing costs that we would otherwise incur to attract new members. It also increases the lifetime value of an individual member. This in turn enhances our Financial Services Productivity Loop. Member growth is generally an indicator of future revenue, but is not directly correlated with revenues, since not all members who sign up for one of our products fully utilize or continue to use our products, and not all of our products (such as our complimentary product, SoFi Relay) provide direct sources of revenue. Since our inception through September 30, 2023, we have served approximately 7.0 million members who have used approximately 10.4 million products on the SoFi platform. Members In Thousands Total Products Total products refers to the aggregate number of lending and financial services products that our members have selected on our platform since our inception through the reporting date, whether or not the members are still registered for such products. Total products is a primary indicator of the size and reach of our Lending and Financial Services segments. Management relies on total products metrics to understand the effectiveness of our member acquisition efforts and to gauge the propensity for members to use more than one product. In our Lending segment, total products refers to the number of personal loans, student loans and home loans that have been originated through our platform through the reporting date, whether or not such loans have been paid off. If a member has multiple loan products of the same loan product type, such as two personal loans, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple loan products across loan product types, such as one personal loan and one home loan, that is counted as two products. In our Financial Services segment, total products refers to the number of SoFi Money accounts (inclusive of checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank and cash management accounts), SoFi Invest accounts, SoFi Credit Card accounts (including accounts with a zero dollar balance at the reporting date), referred loans (which are originated by a third-party partner to which we provide pre-qualified borrower referrals), SoFi At Work accounts and SoFi Relay accounts (with either credit score monitoring enabled or external linked accounts) that have been opened through our platform through the reporting date. Checking and savings accounts are considered one account within our total products metric. Our SoFi Invest service is composed of three products: active investing accounts, robo-advisory accounts and digital assets accounts. Our members can select any one or combination of the three types of SoFi Invest products. If a member has multiple SoFi Invest products of the same account type, such as two active investing accounts, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple SoFi Invest products across account types, such as one active investing account and one robo-advisory account, those separate account types are considered separate products. In the event a member is removed in accordance with our terms of service, as discussed under Members above, the members associated products are also removed. 60 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Products In Thousands Total lending products were composed of the following: Lending Products September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Variance % Change Personal loans 1,057,995 783,645 274,350 35 % Student loans 507,567 471,141 36,426 8 % Home loans 28,344 25,707 2,637 10 % Total lending products 1,593,906 1,280,493 313,413 24 % Total financial services products were composed of the following: Financial Services Products September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Variance % Change Money(1) 3,063,778 2,002,791 1,060,987 53 % Invest 2,465,072 2,067,621 397,451 19 % Credit Card 235,791 153,978 81,813 53 % Referred loans(2) 51,301 36,538 14,763 40 % Relay 2,958,497 1,600,102 1,358,395 85 % At Work 79,461 57,775 21,686 38 % Total financial services products 8,853,900 5,918,805 2,935,095 50 % ___________________ (1)Includes checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank, and cash management accounts. (2)Limited to loans wherein we provide third party fulfillment services. Technology Platform Total Accounts In our Technology Platform segment, total accounts refers to the number of open accounts at Galileo as of the reporting date. We include intercompany accounts on the Galileo platform-as-a-service in our total accounts metric to better align with the Technology Platform segment revenue reported in Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes intercompany revenue. Intercompany revenue is eliminated in consolidation. Total accounts is a primary indicator of the accounts dependent upon our technology platform to use virtual card products, virtual wallets, make peer-to-peer and bank-to-bank transfers, receive early paychecks, separate savings from spending balances, make debit transactions and rely upon real-time authorizations, all of which result in revenues for the Technology Platform segment. We do not measure total accounts for the Technisys products and solutions, as the revenue model is not primarily dependent upon being a fully integrated, stand-ready service. 61 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology Platform Accounts(1)(2) In Millions ___________________ (1)We include SoFi accounts on the Galileo platform-as-a-service in Technology Platform total accounts to better align with the presentation of Technology Platform segment total net revenue. (2)In 2023, Technology Platform total accounts reflects the previously disclosed migration by one of our clients of the majority of its processing volumes to a pure processor. These accounts remained open for administrative purposes through the end of 2022, and were included in our total accounts in such period. September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Variance % Change Total accounts 136,739,131 124,332,810 12,406,321 10 % Key Factors Affecting Operating Results Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges and other factors, including our loan origination volume, financial services products and member activity on our platform, growth in technology platform clients, competition and industry trends, general economic conditions and our ability to optimize our national bank charter. The key factors affecting our operating results are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, with notable updates provided herein. Industry Trends and General Economic Conditions The Federal Reserve increased the benchmark interest rate throughout 2022 and several times in 2023, largely in response to high inflation, low unemployment and strong consumer demand, while balancing macroeconomic risks, such as increased market volatility. We have continued to see strong demand for our deposits as a result of our competitive interest rate offering and expanded access to FDIC insurance coverage. However, rising interest rates have unfavorably impacted, and could continue to unfavorably impact, demand for refinancing loan products. Economic and market volatility may continue to occur and could worsen, including if there is additional turmoil in the banking and financial services sectors, which could adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. These market developments have negatively impacted customer confidence in the safety and soundness of certain banks. As a result, although we have not observed a decline in our overall deposits to date, our members may choose to maintain deposits with other financial institutions or spread their deposit funds among multiple financial institutions. In addition, if the Federal Reserve does not effectively curb inflation or interest rates further rise unexpectedly or too quickly or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or do not improve, it could have a negative impact on the overall economy and result in increased unemployment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In 2023, we saw a continuation from 2022 of elevated credit spreads across capital markets and changes in consumer credit. Our increased personal loan annualized charge-off rate year over year was reflective of our expectation of credit metrics to revert over time to more normalized levels, but remains healthy, while our higher credit card annualized charge-off rate was reflective of our maturing portfolio. Negative changes to macroeconomic conditions may result in decreased demand for our products, increased operating costs and negatively impact our results of operations. 62 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Fair Value of Loans We measure our personal loans, student loans and home loans at fair value, which are level 3 measurements due to the use of unobservable inputs. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of inputs that market participants would use in pricing our loans. Our fair value adjustments on loans impact our consolidated results of operations and include adjustments related to loans originated during the period, loans held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold or repurchased during the period. Fair value adjustments made in each reporting period are impacted by factors such as, among others, interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads, actual and estimated losses, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. In determining our fair value assumptions, we incorporate recent data impacting the capital markets, as well as factors specific to us. Changes in these factors, either positive or negative, can have a material impact on our results of operations. The following table summarizes the significant inputs to the fair value model for personal and student loans: Personal Loans Student Loans September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 Weighted average coupon rate(1) 13.8 % 13.6 % 5.3 % 5.0 % Weighted average annual default rate 4.6 4.6 0.5 0.5 Weighted average conditional prepayment rate 20.3 19.0 10.5 10.6 Weighted average discount rate 6.6 6.1 4.8 4.4 ___________________ (1)Represents the average coupon rate on loans held on balance sheet, weighted by unpaid principal balance outstanding at the balance sheet date. As of the third quarter of 2023 relative to the second quarter of 2023, we observed the following trends: The weighted average coupon rates on personal loans and student loans increased by 20 bps and 30 bps, respectively, which reflects rate increases passed on to borrowers as benchmark interest rates have increased, combined with higher personal and student loan originations. The two and five year swap rates increased by 16 bps and 43 bps, respectively, as well as the applicable benchmark rate forward curve. For personal loans, our discount rate assumptions increased in the third quarter primarily due to larger spreads indicated by asset-backed security and secondary bond markets, as well as the impacts of the increased benchmark rates. For student loans, our discount rate assumptions increased in the third quarter primarily due to the impacts of the increased benchmark rates. Annualized net charge-off rates on personal loans and student loans in the third quarter of 2023 were 3.44% and 0.38%, respectively, which remained lower than the assumed weighted average default rates in our fair value model of 4.6% and 0.5%, respectively. Our fair value assumption for annual default rate incorporates fair value markdowns on loans beginning when they are 10 days or more delinquent, with additional markdowns at 30 days, 60 days and 90 days past due. For instance, personal loans are marked down on average 70% when the loans are 30 days past due. The combination of these and other factors, including higher in period originations, resulted in fair value gains recognized on our personal loans portfolio and fair value losses recognized on our student loans portfolio during the third quarter of 2023. Student Loan Relief In June 2023, Congress passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 which, among other things, ended the suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans pursuant to the CARES Act passed in 2020, which became effective 60 days after June 30, 2023, as well as prohibits the Secretary of Education from implementing any extension of any executive action or rule pursuant thereto. Additionally, in August 2022, President Biden announced relief measures for federal student loan borrowers, including forgiveness of $10,000 of student loans (or up to $20,000 if student loans are Pell Grants) for anyone earning less than $125,000 annually and certain changes to income-driven repayment plans for student loans (the Biden Forgiveness Program). Although the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently struck down the Biden Forgiveness Program, President Biden indicated between October 1, 2023 and September 30, 2024, he would allow federal loan borrowers to not be considered delinquent if they miss a payment and that the U.S. Department of Education will not refer borrowers who fail to pay their student loan bills to credit agencies. In addition, on July 14, 2023, President Biden announced that $39 billion in federal student loan debt would be eliminated to remedy mistakes of loan servicers, and other student loan holders will have 63 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS their loans adjusted. On October 4, 2023, the Biden Administration approved an additional 125,000 borrowers for student loan debt relief, totaling an additional $9 billion in student debt forgiveness. While we expect we may continue to see an increase in student loan refinancing volume following the end of the federal student loan payment moratorium after August 30, 2023, as borrowers may look to refinance at a lower rate or, given the high interest rate environment, may look to extend the loan term, the timing and impact to our student loan refinancing product will largely depend on expectations regarding the introduction or implementation of additional relief measures, the interest rate environment, how competitive our student loan refinancing products are compared to our competitors and macroeconomic factors. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of income data: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 344,963 $ 157,850 $ 187,113 119 % $ 872,099 $ 375,512 $ 496,587 132 % Total noninterest income 192,246 266,135 (73,889) (28) 635,286 741,344 (106,058) (14) Total net revenue 537,209 423,985 113,224 27 1,507,385 1,116,856 390,529 35 Total noninterest expense 804,137 498,436 305,701 61 1,859,701 1,396,628 463,073 33 Loss before income taxes (266,928) (74,451) (192,477) 259 (352,316) (279,772) (72,544) 26 Income tax benefit (expense) 244 242 2 1 3,661 (629) 4,290 n/m Net loss $ (266,684) $ (74,209) $ (192,475) 259 % $ (348,655) $ (280,401) $ (68,254) 24 % 64 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net Interest Income The tables below present average balance and interest information for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, along with net interest income and net interest margin. Average Balances and Net Interest Earnings Analysis Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 2,342,361 $ 24,485 4.15 % $ 1,067,810 $ 2,529 0.95 % Investment securities 517,786 1,838 1.41 504,365 3,097 2.46 Loans(2) 19,996,570 537,947 10.67 9,150,847 191,525 8.37 Total interest-earning assets 22,856,717 564,270 9.79 10,723,022 197,151 7.35 Total noninterest-earning assets 3,116,217 3,019,934 Total assets $ 25,972,934 $ 13,742,956 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 2,355,243 $ 12,837 2.16 % $ 1,982,603 $ 7,769 1.57 % Savings deposits 9,416,236 104,375 4.40 1,453,458 6,114 1.68 Time deposits 2,244,196 28,351 5.01 354,211 266 0.30 Total interest-bearing deposits 14,015,675 145,563 4.12 3,790,272 14,149 1.49 Warehouse facilities 3,223,333 51,257 6.31 1,523,903 12,539 3.29 Securitization debt 724,063 9,374 5.14 487,142 4,492 3.69 Other debt(3) 1,644,295 13,113 3.16 1,647,221 7,988 1.94 Total debt 5,591,691 73,744 5.23 3,658,266 25,019 2.74 Residual interests classified as debt 10,744 48,894 904 7.40 Total interest-bearing liabilities 19,618,110 219,307 4.44 7,497,432 40,072 2.14 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 783,925 735,086 Total liabilities 20,402,035 8,232,518 Total temporary equity 320,374 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,250,525 5,190,064 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 25,972,934 $ 13,742,956 Net interest income(4) $ 344,963 $ 157,079 Net interest margin(5) 5.99 % 5.86 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 period and on four-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 period, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Interest income on loans measured at amortized cost for the 2022 period includes amortization of deferred loan fees, net of deferred loan costs, which were not material. (3)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility. (4)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (5)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. 65 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 1,973,892 $ 57,094 3.87 % $ 1,168,934 $ 3,930 0.45 % Investment securities 486,931 11,259 3.09 521,027 9,107 2.33 Loans(2) 17,520,517 1,337,476 10.21 8,007,445 451,247 7.51 Total interest-earning assets 19,981,340 1,405,829 9.41 9,697,406 464,284 6.38 Total noninterest-earning assets 3,140,883 2,614,678 Total assets $ 23,122,223 $ 12,312,084 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 2,100,866 $ 38,611 2.46 % $ 1,146,498 $ 10,696 1.24 % Savings deposits 7,409,745 225,649 4.07 761,377 8,130 1.42 Time deposits 1,701,417 60,948 4.79 148,299 297 0.27 Total interest-bearing deposits 11,212,028 325,208 3.88 2,056,174 19,123 1.24 Warehouse facilities 3,093,592 139,513 6.03 2,076,242 32,159 2.07 Securitization debt 823,457 30,570 4.96 553,790 15,229 3.67 Other debt(3) 1,644,427 38,298 3.11 1,644,414 19,670 1.59 Total debt 5,561,476 208,381 5.01 4,274,446 67,058 2.09 Residual interests classified as debt 13,334 141 1.41 64,681 3,469 7.15 Total interest-bearing liabilities 16,786,838 533,730 4.25 6,395,301 89,650 1.87 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 754,024 639,926 Total liabilities 17,540,862 7,035,227 Total temporary equity 320,374 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,260,987 4,956,483 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 23,122,223 $ 12,312,084 Net interest income(4) $ 872,099 $ 374,634 Net interest margin(5) 5.84 % 5.15 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 period and on ten-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 period, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Interest income on loans measured at amortized cost for the 2022 period includes amortization of deferred loan fees, net of deferred loan costs, which were not material. (3)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility. (4)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (5)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. For the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, net interest income increased by $187.1 million, or 119%, and net interest margin increased by 13 basis points. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net interest income increased by $496.6 million, or 132%, and net interest margin increased by 69 basis points. The increases were primarily driven by higher interest income from (i) personal loans, which was primarily a function of increases in the average balance and origination volume, as well as longer loan holding periods for both personal and student loans, and (ii) interest-bearing deposits with banks, which reflected our strong liquidity position in a rising interest rate environment. Average interest-earning assets increased by 113% and 106% during the three and nine-month periods, respectively, and average yields increased by 244 and 303 basis points, respectively. These increases were partially offset by higher interest expense on deposits attributable to a higher average balance and higher interest rates offered to our members, and higher interest expense on warehouse facilities attributable to a higher average balance and higher interest rates incurred on our facilities, all of which are reflective of the higher interest rate environment year over year. 66 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income The following table presents period-over-period changes in net interest income and the extent to which the variances are attributable to changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities or changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs. 2022 2023 vs. 2022 Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): ($ in thousands) Volume Rate Total Variance Volume Rate Total Variance Interest income: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 13,324 $ 8,632 $ 21,956 $ 23,283 $ 29,881 $ 53,164 Investment securities 47 (1,306) (1,259) (789) 2,941 2,152 Loans 291,771 54,651 346,422 726,206 160,023 886,229 Total interest income 305,142 61,977 367,119 748,700 192,845 941,545 Interest expense: Interest-bearing deposits 106,198 25,216 131,414 265,568 40,517 306,085 Debt 25,498 23,227 48,725 48,223 93,100 141,323 Residual interests classified as debt (904) (904) (544) (2,784) (3,328) Total interest expense 131,696 47,539 179,235 313,247 130,833 444,080 Net interest income $ 173,446 $ 14,438 $ 187,884 $ 435,453 $ 62,012 $ 497,465 ___________________ (1)We calculate the changes in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. Volume and rate changes have been allocated on a consistent basis using the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates. Noninterest Income and Net Revenue The following table presents the components of our total noninterest income, as well as total net revenue: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Loan origination and sales $ 81,683 $ 163,697 $ (82,014) (50) % $ 311,258 $ 465,815 $ (154,557) (33) % Securitizations (6,298) (8,772) 2,474 (28) (22,375) (31,790) 9,415 (30) Servicing 8,009 7,296 713 10 29,803 30,003 (200) (1) Technology products and solutions 81,856 82,035 (179) 236,946 223,562 13,384 6 Other 26,996 21,879 5,117 23 79,654 53,754 25,900 48 Total noninterest income $ 192,246 $ 266,135 $ (73,889) (28) $ 635,286 $ 741,344 $ (106,058) (14) Total net revenue $ 537,209 $ 423,985 $ 113,224 27 % $ 1,507,385 $ 1,116,856 $ 390,529 35 % Three Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $73.9 million, or 28%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, which was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2023 period, (ii) the net effect of lower income related to in-period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments on loans, which were primarily impacted by higher benchmark rates, higher personal loan origination volume and longer loan holding periods, as well as lower gains on loan hedging activities due to smaller increases in interest rates during the 2023 period, (iii) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, and (iv) increased interchange and brokerage revenue. Nine Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $106.1 million, or 14%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, which was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2023 period, (ii) the net effect of lower gains on loan hedging activities due to smaller increases in interest rates during the 2023 period, partially offset by higher income related to in period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments on loans, which were primarily impacted by higher personal loan origination volume and lower student loan prepayment 67 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS assumptions, (iii) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, (iv) improved securitizations income driven by a positive variance in our securitization bond fair values, and an increase in securitization loan fair market values primarily associated with a consolidated securitization transaction in the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by lower gains in the 2023 period on risk retention hedge activities, (v) growth in technology products and solutions fees largely driven by revenue contribution from Technisys for the full period in 2023, and (vi) increased interchange revenue. Noninterest Expense The following table presents the components of our total noninterest expense: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Technology and product development $ 125,698 $ 110,702 $ 14,996 14 % $ 369,602 $ 291,976 $ 77,626 27 % Sales and marketing 186,719 162,129 24,590 15 544,695 444,121 100,574 23 Cost of operations 98,258 83,083 15,175 18 276,051 232,611 43,440 19 General and administrative 124,457 126,199 (1,742) (1) 379,326 388,533 (9,207) (2) Goodwill impairment 247,174 247,174 n/m 247,174 247,174 n/m Provision for credit losses 21,831 16,323 5,508 34 42,853 39,387 3,466 9 Total noninterest expense $ 804,137 $ 498,436 $ 305,701 61 % $ 1,859,701 $ 1,396,628 $ 463,073 33 % Three Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $305.7 million, or 61%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, primarily driven by: (i) goodwill impairment expense related to the Galileo and Technisys reporting units, further discussed within Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesGoodwill,(ii) increases in utilization of lead generation channels, advertising and marketing expenditures and direct member incentives, and (iii) increased amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and in tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology. Nine Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $463.1 million, or 33%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2022, primarily driven by: (i) goodwill impairment expense related to the Galileo and Technisys reporting units, further discussed within Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesGoodwill, (ii) increases in advertising and marketing expenditures, utilization of lead generation channels and direct member incentives, (iii) higher employee compensation and benefits, which was attributable to increases in headcount and salary and the inclusion of Technisys for the full 2023 period compared to a partial period in 2022, related to support of our growth and impacts of the inflationary environment, as well as restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2023 and partially offset by decreases in share-based compensation expense, (iv) increased amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and in tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology, and (v) increases in amortization of intangible assets primarily due to acquired intangible assets in the Technisys Merger and Wyndham acquisition. These increases were partially offset by the absence of transaction expenses that were incurred in the 2022 period related to our acquisition of Technisys. 68 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Provision for Credit Losses Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses Allowance for Credit Losses Ratios The following table presents the ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: ($ in thousands) September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding Allowance for credit losses $ 51,923 $ 34,370 Total loans held for investment outstanding(1) $ 407,693 $ 310,527 Ratio(2) 12.74 % 11.07 % __________________ (1)Total loans outstanding excludes accrued interest. (2)The increase in the ratio was attributable to credit cards and was primarily reflective of an increase in the average balance combined with elevated loss rates. We omitted the credit ratios associated with nonaccrual loans, as the balance of nonaccrual loans was immaterial. Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses The following table presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses and the percentage of loans outstanding by category to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Credit card $ 50,055 72 % $ 32,960 70 % Commercial and consumer banking 1,868 28 1,410 30 Total $ 51,923 100 % $ 34,370 100 %__________________ (1)Loans outstanding balances used in the calculation exclude accrued interest. Analysis of Charge-offs The following tables present information regarding average loans outstanding, net charge-offs and the annualized ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 13,895,181 $ 120,372 3.44 % $ 4,914,715 $ 23,961 1.95 % Student loans 5,662,842 5,432 0.38 3,837,742 3,169 0.33 Home loans 80,614 131,067 Credit card(3) 247,694 11,127 17.82 182,490 5,133 11.25 Commercial and consumer banking 110,239 8 0.03 84,833 (5) n/m Total loans $ 19,996,570 $ 136,939 2.72 % $ 9,150,847 $ 32,258 1.41 % Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 11,731,420 $ 278,778 3.18 % $ 3,790,432 $ 42,412 1.49 % Student loans 5,375,562 15,432 0.38 3,844,797 8,470 0.29 Home loans 75,002 149,461 Credit card(3) 230,849 31,713 18.37 156,295 12,438 10.61 Commercial and consumer banking 107,684 5 0.01 66,460 (4) n/m Total loans $ 17,520,517 $ 325,928 2.49 % $ 8,007,445 $ 63,316 1.05 %___________________ 69 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 periods and on four-month or ten-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 periods, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Net charge-offs include both credit- and certain non-credit-related charge-offs. (3)The increase in the net charge-off rate associated with credit card was primarily related to our maturing portfolio. The provision for credit losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $5.5 million, or 34%, and $3.5 million, or 9%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022. The increase during the three-month period was primarily related to growth in total credit card balances. Income Taxes For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, we recorded income tax benefit of $0.2 million and $3.7 million, respectively. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, we recorded income tax benefit (expense) of $0.2 million and $(0.6) million, respectively. Income taxes were primarily attributable to tax expense associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required. For the three and nine month 2023 periods, this expense was more than offset by income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. Summary Results by Segment Contribution profit (loss) is the primary measure of segment-level profit and loss that, along with our key business metrics, is used by management to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions. Contribution profit (loss) is defined as total net revenue for each reportable segment less expenses directly attributable to the reportable segment and, in the case of our Lending segment, adjusted for fair value adjustments attributable to assumption changes associated with our servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt. See the sections entitled Consolidated Results of Operations, Summary Results by Segment and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for discussion and analysis of these key financial measures. Lending Segment In the table below, we present certain metrics related to our Lending segment: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Metric 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 Change % Change Total products (number, as of period end) 1,593,906 1,280,493 313,413 24 % 1,593,906 1,280,493 313,413 24 % Origination volume ($ in thousands, during period) Personal loans $ 3,885,967 $ 2,809,759 $ 1,076,208 38 % $ 10,578,306 $ 7,307,612 $ 3,270,694 45 % Student loans 919,330 457,184 462,146 101 1,840,070 1,839,710 360 Home loans 355,698 216,246 139,452 64 688,608 860,676 (172,068) (20) Total $ 5,160,995 $ 3,483,189 $ 1,677,806 48 % $ 13,106,984 $ 10,007,998 $ 3,098,986 31 % Loans with a balance (number, as of period end)(1) 967,851 717,148 250,703 35 % 967,851 717,148 250,703 35 % Average loan balance ($, as of period end)(1) Personal loans $ 24,221 $ 24,772 $ (551) (2) % $ 24,221 $ 24,772 $ (551) (2) % Student loans(2) 44,828 47,152 (2,324) (5) 44,828 47,152 (2,324) (5) Home loans 285,773 286,855 (1,082) 285,773 286,855 (1,082) __________________ (1)Loans with a balance and average loan balance include loans on our balance sheet, as well as transferred loans and referred loans with which we have a continuing involvement through our servicing agreements. (2)In-school loans carry a lower average balance than student loan refinancing products. Total Products Total products in our Lending segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Lending segment. 70 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Origination Volume We refer to the aggregate dollar amount of loans originated through our platform in a given period as origination volume. Origination volume is an indicator of the size and health of our Lending segment and an indicator (together with the relevant loan characteristics, such as interest rate and prepayment and default expectations) of revenues and profitability. Changes in origination volume are driven by the addition of new members and existing members, the latter of which at times will either refinance into a new SoFi loan or secure an additional, concurrent loan, as well as macroeconomic factors impacting consumer spending and borrowing behavior. Since the profitability of the Lending segment is largely correlated with origination volume, management relies on origination volume trends to assess the need for external financing to support the Financial Services segment and the expense budgets for unallocated expenses. Personal Loans. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, personal loan origination volume increased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 periods, primarily due to increased demand driven by expanded marketing efforts and increased demand for debt consolidation products in a rising interest rate environment. Student Loans. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, student loan origination volume increased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 period, as demand for student loan refinancing products increased ahead of the resumption of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans as borrowers look to refinance at a lower rate or, given the high interest rate environment, to extend the loan term. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, student loan origination volume remained flat relative to the corresponding 2022 period, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans through August 30, 2023 and the expectation of debt cancellation for certain federal student loan borrowers which was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2023, combined with a continued rising interest rate environment in 2023. See Key Factors Affecting Operating ResultsStudent Loan Relief for additional discussion of student loans. Home Loans. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, home loan origination volume increased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 period aided by the increased capacity and capabilities subsequent to our acquisition of Wyndham. During the nine months ended September 30, 2023, home loan origination volume decreased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 period due to continued rising interest rates, which tends to lower demand for home loans overall and shift demand from refinance originations to purchase originations, the latter of which is a more competitive landscape. Although purchase originations historically represented a smaller percentage of our home loan originations, our mix during the 2023 period has shifted toward more purchase originations, which we would expect to continue under similar macroeconomic conditions. Our home loan origination volume increased notably in the second and third quarters of 2023 compared to the first quarter of 2023, aided by the increased capacity and capabilities subsequent to our acquisition of Wyndham, which we expect to continue to provide benefits during the remainder of the year. Loans with a Balance and Average Loan Balance Loans with a balance refers to the number of loans that have a balance greater than zero dollars as of the reporting date. Loans with a balance allows management to better understand the unit economics of acquiring a loan in relation to the lifetime value of that loan. Average loan balance is defined as the total unpaid principal balance of the loans divided by loans with a balance within the respective loan product category as of the reporting date. Average loan balance tends to fluctuate based on the pace of loan originations relative to loan repayments and the initial loan origination size. 71 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS In the table below, we present additional information related to our lending products: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Overall weighted average origination FICO 751 749 750 752 Personal Loans Weighted average origination FICO 744 746 745 747 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 13.57 % 12.22 % 13.20 % 11.65 % Interest income recognized $ 452,771 $ 143,757 $ 1,103,979 $ 317,342 Sales of loans $ 15,006 $ 749,648 $ 65,019 $ 2,851,466 Student Loans Weighted average origination FICO 781 771 775 773 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 5.17 % 4.23 % 5.01 % 4.09 % Interest income recognized $ 72,081 $ 40,019 $ 196,510 $ 115,859 Sales of loans $ $ 74,080 $ 96,678 $ 877,920 Home Loans Weighted average origination FICO 755 747 756 747 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 5.67 % 4.37 % 5.51 % 3.24 % Interest income recognized $ 1,276 $ 1,499 $ 3,441 $ 3,731 Sales of loans $ 333,843 $ 251,821 $ 678,136 $ 959,971 __________________ (1)Weighted average interest rate earned represents annualized interest income recognized divided by the average unpaid principal balances of loans outstanding during the period, determined on a daily basis for the 2023 periods and on a four-month or ten-month basis for the 2022 periods, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. Lending Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 265,215 $ 139,516 $ 125,699 90 % $ 698,147 $ 347,873 $ 350,274 101 % Noninterest income 83,758 162,178 (78,420) (48) 319,348 463,927 (144,579) (31) Total net revenue 348,973 301,694 47,279 16 1,017,495 811,800 205,695 25 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (7,420) (6,182) (1,238) 20 (28,105) (26,860) (1,245) 5 Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 928 1,453 (525) (36) 415 7,078 (6,663) (94) Directly attributable expenses (138,525) (116,403) (22,122) 19 (392,642) (336,814) (55,828) 17 Contribution profit $ 203,956 $ 180,562 $ 23,394 13 % $ 597,163 $ 455,204 $ 141,959 31 % Adjusted net revenue(3) $ 342,481 $ 296,965 $ 45,516 15 % $ 989,805 $ 792,018 $ 197,787 25 % __________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including market servicing costs, conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. This non-cash change, which is recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, is unrealized during the period and, therefore, has no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, the changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the cash flows available to finance our operations. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated VIEs through purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the securitization close and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, with fair value changes recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The fair value change attributable to assumption changes has no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, this non-cash change in fair value is adjusted to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the cash flows available to finance our operations. (3)Adjusted net revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure. For information regarding our use and definition of this measure and for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, total net revenue, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures herein. 72 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net interest income Net interest income in our Lending segment increased by $125.7 million, or 90%, and by $350.3 million, or 101%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily attributable to increases in average personal loan unpaid principal balances of $7.9 billion (173%) and $6.9 billion (200%), respectively, and in average student loan unpaid principal balances of $1.9 billion (57%) and $1.7 billion (51%), respectively, combined with a higher weighted average interest rate. The personal loan average balance increase was primarily attributable to higher origination volume and longer loan holding periods. The student loan average balance increase was primarily attributable to longer loan holding periods. Interest expense associated with funding our lending activities increased by $214.5 million, or 443%, and by $516.5 million, or 532%, for the three and nine-month year-over-year periods, respectively, primarily due to the sharp increases in benchmark rates which are reflective of the higher interest rate environment year over year, as well as higher average loan balances. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Lending segment decreased by $78.4 million, or 48%, and by $144.6 million, or 31%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily driven by lower loan origination and sales income of $82.0 million and $154.6 million, respectively. For the nine month period, this was partially offset by higher securitizations income of $9.4 million. Loan Origination and Sales The following table presents the components of noninterest incomeloan origination and sales: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change In period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments(1) $ 57,450 $ 88,026 $ (30,576) (35) % $ 337,425 $ 183,098 $ 154,327 84 % Economic derivative hedges of loan fair values 80,029 106,240 (26,211) (25) 165,531 336,382 (170,851) (51) Other derivative instruments(2) 2,180 (6,087) 8,267 n/m 4,443 (10,711) 15,154 n/m Loan origination fees 56,394 2,238 54,156 n/m 73,577 6,169 67,408 n/m Loan write-off expense whole loans(3) (115,410) (26,021) (89,389) 344 (271,437) (47,698) (223,739) 469 Loan repurchase (expense) benefit(4) (515) 479 (994) n/m (243) 2,266 (2,509) n/m Other 1,562 (1,174) 2,736 n/m 1,988 (3,661) 5,649 n/m Loan origination and sales noninterest income $ 81,690 $ 163,701 $ (82,011) (50) % $ 311,284 $ 465,845 $ (154,561) (33) %___________________ (1)Includes fair value adjustments on loans originated during the period, fair value adjustments on loans held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold during the period. Fair value adjustments are impacted by interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads, actual and estimated losses, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. (2)Includes IRLCs, interest rate caps and purchase price earn-out. (3)For the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, includes gross write-offs of $134.1 million and $31.4 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $18.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, of which $13.2 million and $2.7 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, includes gross write-offs of $320.5 million and $60.9 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $49.1 million and $13.2 million, respectively, of which $30.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. The increases in loan write-off expense were related to increased origination volume and longer loan holding periods. (4)Represents the (expense) benefit associated with our estimated loan repurchase obligation. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Three Months. The decrease in loan origination and sales income was primarily driven by: (i) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2023 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) lower fair value gains on personal loans and higher fair value losses on student loans, which were primarily impacted by higher benchmark rates, higher personal and student loan origination volume, and longer loan holding periods, and (iii) lower gains in the 2023 period on personal loan and student loan interest rate swap positions primarily driven by smaller increases in interest rates during the 2023 period. This decrease was partially offset by: (i) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual 73 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS percentage rate, and (ii) fair value gains on home loans (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by lower benchmark rates. Nine Months. The decrease in loan origination and sales income was primarily driven by: (i) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2023 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) lower gains in the 2023 period on student loan and personal loan interest rate swap positions and on home loan pipeline hedges primarily driven by smaller increases in interest rates and in the underlying hedge price index during the 2023 period, respectively. This decrease was partially offset by: (i) higher fair value gains on personal loans and fair value gains on student loans in the 2023 period (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by higher origination volume and lower prepayment assumptions, respectively, (ii) fair value gains on home loans (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by smaller decreases in benchmark rates, (iii) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, and (iv) losses on home loan and student loan sale execution in the 2022 period, which were due to both volume and price factors. Securitizations Nine Months. The improvement in securitizations income was primarily driven by an increase in securitization loan and residual interests in securitization trusts fair market values primarily associated with consolidated securitization transactions in the first and third quarters of 2023, and a positive variance in our securitization bond and residual interest position fair values. This was partially offset by the impact of securitization write-offs and lower gains in the 2023 period on risk retention hedge activities. Servicing We own the master servicing on all of the servicing rights that we retain and, in each case, recognize the gross servicing rate applicable to each serviced loan. Sub-servicers are utilized for all serviced student loans and home loans, which represents a cost to SoFi, but these arrangements do not impact our calculation of the weighted average basis points earned for each loan type serviced. Further, there is no impact on servicing income due to forbearance and moratoriums on certain debt collection activities, and there are no waivers of late fees. The table below presents information related to our loan servicing activities: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Servicing income recognized Personal loans $ 5,048 $ 9,806 $ (4,758) (49) % $ 17,234 $ 27,901 $ (10,667) (38) % Student loans 6,219 9,293 (3,074) (33) 19,235 29,119 (9,884) (34) Home loans 3,721 3,387 334 10 11,052 9,416 1,636 17 Servicing rights fair value change Personal loans $ (1,998) $ (3,013) $ 1,015 (34) % $ (9,943) $ (857) $ (9,086) n/m Student loans (4,788) (4,053) (735) 18 % (2,238) (9,137) 6,899 (76) % Home loans 3,777 (1,460) 5,237 n/m 4,981 10,173 (5,192) (51) % 74 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Lending segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Direct advertising $ 49,477 $ 44,813 $ 4,664 10 % $ 142,843 $ 127,704 $ 15,139 12 % Lead generation 35,229 25,999 9,230 36 90,303 69,381 20,922 30 Compensation and benefits 31,136 27,717 3,419 12 87,242 77,855 9,387 12 Loan origination and servicing costs 12,307 10,736 1,571 15 35,676 31,838 3,838 12 Professional services 1,650 1,896 (246) (13) 6,610 5,765 845 15 Intercompany technology platform expenses 300 300 n/m 512 512 n/m Other(1) 8,426 5,242 3,184 61 29,456 24,271 5,185 21 Directly attributable expenses $ 138,525 $ 116,403 $ 22,122 19 % $ 392,642 $ 336,814 $ 55,828 17 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include loan marketing expenses, member promotional expenses, tools and subscriptions, travel and occupancy-related costs and third-party loan fraud. Lending segment directly attributable expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $22.1 million, or 19%, and $55.8 million, or 17%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase in personal loan lead generation channels during 2023; (ii) an increase in direct advertising primarily related to direct mail advertising; (iii) an increase in allocated compensation and related benefits, which reflected increases in average compensation and average headcount in 2023; and (iv) an increase in other expenses, primarily related to loan marketing expenses and third-party loan fraud. Technology Platform Segment In the table below, we present the total accounts metric related to Galileo within our Technology Platform segment: 2023 vs 2022 September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Change % Change Total accounts 136,739,131 124,332,810 12,406,321 10 % See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Technology Platform segment. Technology Platform Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Technology Platform segment: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 573 $ $ 573 n/m $ 573 $ $ 573 n/m Noninterest income 89,350 84,777 4,573 5 % 254,860 229,481 25,379 11 % Total net revenue 89,923 84,777 5,146 6 255,433 229,481 25,952 11 Directly attributable expenses (57,732) (65,241) 7,509 (12) (191,231) (169,849) (21,382) 13 Contribution profit $ 32,191 $ 19,536 $ 12,655 65 % $ 64,202 $ 59,632 $ 4,570 8 % Net interest income Net interest income in our Technology Platform segment of $0.6 million for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 relates to interest income earned on segment cash balances, which we began recording within the 75 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology Platform segment in the third quarter of 2023. Prior period amounts were determined to be immaterial, and presented within Corporate/Other. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Technology Platform segment increased by $4.6 million, or 5%, and $25.4 million, or 11%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022. The increase in the nine-month period was primarily attributable to growth in technology products and solutions fees driven by revenue contribution from Technisys for the full 2023 period compared to seven months of 2022. Noninterest income also included $7.0 million and $15.6 million of intercompany revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to $1.8 million and $4.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively. The increase in intercompany revenue was primarily attributable to increased usage of technology platform services during the 2023 periods by our Financial Services segment, as well as within our Technology Platform segment, as we continue to leverage synergies to enhance our product offerings. Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Technology Platform segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 34,155 $ 39,862 $ (5,707) (14) % $ 112,201 $ 101,544 $ 10,657 10 % Product fulfillment 11,784 10,531 1,253 12 34,332 29,489 4,843 16 Tools and subscriptions 6,085 5,425 660 12 19,931 13,552 6,379 47 Professional services 3,664 3,609 55 2 10,841 10,492 349 3 Other(1) 2,044 5,814 (3,770) (65) 13,926 14,772 (846) (6) Directly attributable expenses $ 57,732 $ 65,241 $ (7,509) (12) % $ 191,231 $ 169,849 $ 21,382 13 %___________________ (1)Other expenses are primarily related to travel and occupancy-related costs, advertising and marketing, and data center costs. Technology Platform segment directly attributable expenses decreased by $7.5 million, or 12%, and increased by $21.4 million, or 13%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to: (i) a decrease in compensation benefits expense for the three month period, which reflected a decrease in average headcount in 2023 corresponding with restructuring during the first quarter of 2023, and an increase in compensation and benefits expense for the nine-month period, primarily related to bonus adjustments in the second quarter of 2023 and the inclusion of Technisys in our results for the full nine-month 2023 period; (ii) an increase in tools and subscriptions costs related to internal technology initiatives to support the growth of the platform, along with the inclusion of Technisys in our results for the full nine-month 2023 period; and (iii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, primarily related to payment processing network association fees associated with increased activity on the platform. Financial Services Segment In the table below, we present the total products metric related to our Financial Services segment: 2023 vs. 2022 September 30, 2023 September 30, 2022 Change % Change Total products 8,853,900 5,918,805 2,935,095 50 % Total products in our Financial Services segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for a further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Financial Services segment. 76 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Services Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution loss for the Financial Services segment: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 93,101 $ 28,158 $ 64,943 231 % $ 225,775 $ 46,965 $ 178,810 381 % Noninterest income 25,146 20,795 4,351 21 71,625 55,894 15,731 28 Total net revenue 118,247 48,953 69,294 142 297,400 102,859 194,541 189 Directly attributable expenses (114,987) (101,576) (13,411) 13 (322,722) (258,697) (64,025) 25 Contribution profit (loss) $ 3,260 $ (52,623) $ 55,883 n/m $ (25,322) $ (155,838) $ 130,516 (84) % Net interest income Net interest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $64.9 million, or 231%, and $178.8 million, or 381%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily attributable to net interest income earned on our deposits, which includes interest income based on our FTP framework (which eliminates in consolidation) and interest expense to members. This net increase corresponds with the growth of deposits at SoFi Bank, as well as the impact of higher interest rates offered to members. In addition, net interest income earned on our credit cards increased, which includes interest income earned on outstanding balances as well as interest expense incurred under the FTP framework, and was primarily attributable to growth in total credit cards. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $4.4 million, or 21%, and $15.7 million, or 28%, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to an increase in interchange fees, which coincided with increased credit card and debit card transactions, as well as brokerage-related fees, which were primarily attributable to increased trading volume on our platform during 2023. Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Financial Services segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit (loss) were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 29,530 $ 31,369 $ (1,839) (6) % $ 90,697 $ 81,678 $ 9,019 11 % Provision for credit losses 21,831 16,323 5,508 34 42,853 39,387 3,466 9 Member incentives 15,767 11,712 4,055 35 39,084 27,517 11,567 42 Direct advertising 8,026 10,063 (2,037) (20) 36,667 26,214 10,453 40 Product fulfillment 12,909 8,416 4,493 53 34,779 23,841 10,938 46 Lead generation 6,220 7,751 (1,531) (20) 29,700 16,324 13,376 82 Intercompany technology platform expenses 3,794 1,065 2,729 256 8,532 2,788 5,744 206 Professional services 3,401 1,020 2,381 233 7,541 3,354 4,187 125 Other(1) 13,509 13,857 (348) (3) 32,869 37,594 (4,725) (13) Directly attributable expenses $ 114,987 $ 101,576 $ 13,411 13 % $ 322,722 $ 258,697 $ 64,025 25 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include operational product losses, third-party fraud expense, tools and subscriptions, travel and occupancy-related costs, and marketing expenses. 77 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Services directly attributable expenses increased by $13.4 million, or 13%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase related to our provision for credit losses, which was primarily related to growth in total credit card balances; (ii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, which included debit card fulfillment services, primarily related to our SoFi Money product; and (iii) an increase in direct member incentives utilized to drive adoption and usage of our Financial Services products, the most significant of which was our SoFi Money product. Financial Services directly attributable expenses increased by $64.0 million, or 25%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase related to utilization of lead generation channels, primarily related to our credit card, Relay, and SoFi Money products; (ii) an increase in direct member incentives utilized to drive adoption and usage of our Financial Services products, the most significant of which was our SoFi Money product; (iii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, which included debit card fulfillment services, primarily related to our SoFi Money product; (iv) an increase in direct advertising costs primarily driven by an increase in online and digital advertising largely related to the promotion of our SoFi Money product; and (v) an increase in compensation and benefits expense, which reflected growth in the Financial Services segment that required additional staffing, as well as increased average compensation in 2023. Corporate/Other Non-Reportable Segment Non-segment operations are classified as Corporate/Other, which includes net revenues associated with corporate functions, non-recurring gains and losses from non-securitization investment activities and interest income and realized gains and losses associated with investments in AFS debt securities, all of which are not directly related to a reportable segment. Net interest expense within Corporate/Other also reflects the financial impact of our capital management activities within the treasury function, which reflects the residual impact from FTP charges and FTP credits allocated to our reportable segments under our FTP framework. The following table presents the measure of total net loss for Corporate/Other: Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest expense $ (13,926) $ (9,824) $ (4,102) 42 % $ (52,396) $ (19,326) $ (33,070) 171 % Noninterest loss (6,008) (1,615) (4,393) 272 (10,547) (7,958) (2,589) 33 Total net loss $ (19,934) $ (11,439) $ (8,495) 74 % $ (62,943) $ (27,284) $ (35,659) 131 % Reconciliation of Directly Attributable Expenses The following table reconciles directly attributable expenses allocated to our reportable segments to total noninterest expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Reportable segments directly attributable expenses $ (311,244) $ (283,220) $ (906,595) $ (765,360) Intercompany expenses 6,950 1,757 15,645 4,198 Expenses not allocated to segments: Share-based compensation expense (62,005) (77,855) (202,109) (235,018) Employee-related costs(1) (63,728) (49,248) (181,147) (137,254) Depreciation and amortization expense (52,516) (40,253) (147,967) (109,007) Goodwill impairment expense (247,174) (247,174) Other corporate and unallocated expenses(2) (74,420) (49,617) (190,354) (154,187) Total noninterest expense $ (804,137) $ (498,436) $ (1,859,701) $ (1,396,628) ___________________ (1)Includes compensation, benefits, restructuring charges, recruiting, certain occupancy-related costs and various travel costs of executive management, certain technology groups and general and administrative functions that are not directly attributable to the reportable segments. (2)Represents corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to reportable segments, which primarily includes corporate marketing and advertising costs, tools and subscription costs, professional services costs, corporate and FDIC insurance costs, foreign currency translation adjustments and transaction-related expenses. 78 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity We strive to maintain access to diverse funding sources and ample liquidity to fund our operating requirements, to pursue strategic growth initiatives and to meet our legal and regulatory requirements. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, including cash from operations, and investments in other highly liquid assets. We maintain a Capital and Asset Liability Management policy (CALM) that outlines specific requirements relating to the oversight of SoFi Technologies, Inc. (and its subsidiaries) capital planning, financial planning and forecasting, liquidity risk management, contingency funding planning, interest rate risk management, cash management and financial operations, among other activities. Oversight of these activities is the responsibility of our Asset Liability Committee (the "ALCO"). The ALCO is comprised of a cross-functional leadership team that is responsible for managing our use of capital, liquidity, sources and uses of funding, and sensitivities to various market risks, by identifying key risks and exposures, monitoring them appropriately, establishing tolerances and limits, and mitigating risks where appropriate, to ensure the Company has the ability to meet its obligations. The following table summarizes our total liquidity reserves: September 30, 2023 Amount Available Amount Borrowed / Utilized Remaining Available Capacity Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,813,876 n/a $ 2,813,876 Investments in available-for-sale debt securities(1) 486,091 n/a 486,091 Warehouse facilities(2) 8,420,000 3,961,751 4,458,249 Revolving credit facility(3) 645,000 491,143 153,857 FHLB advances(1) 150,247 13,700 136,547 Correspondent bank lines of credit(4) 50,000 50,000 Total liquidity $ 12,565,214 $ 4,466,594 $ 8,098,620 ___________________ (1)As of September 30, 2023, we had $135.9 million of investment securities and $23.0 million of loans pledged as collateral to the FHLB to secure undrawn borrowing capacity of $150.2 million, of which $13.7 million was utilized to secure letters of credit. (2)Includes personal loan, student loan, credit card and risk retention warehouse facilities. For risk retention facilities, we only include capacity amounts wherein we can pledge additional asset-backed bonds and residual investments as of the date indicated. As of September 30, 2023, warehouse facility maturity dates ranged from January 2024 through January 2032. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)As of September 30, 2023, the amount utilized under the revolving credit facility includes $5.1 million utilized to secure a letter of credit. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4)Borrowing capacity with correspondent banks is unsecured. We believe our existing liquidity will be sufficient to cover net losses, meet our existing working capital and capital expenditure needs, as well as our planned growth for at least the next 12 months. Sources of Funding Our primary funding sources include SoFi Bank deposits, warehouse funding, common and preferred equity capital, convertible debt, corporate revolving credit facility, securitizations, and other financings. We offer deposit accounts (checking and savings accounts) to our members through SoFi Bank. We also source brokered and non-brokered wholesale deposits, which include certificates of deposit. As of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, time deposit balances due in less than one year totaled $2.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. As of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the amount of uninsured deposits totaled $361.4 million and $615.9 million, respectively. In 2023, we provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks, which contributed to the decrease in uninsured deposits relative to year end. As of September 30, 2023, approximately 98% of our total deposits were insured. 79 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Uses of Funding Our primary uses of funds include loan originations, investments in our business, such as technology and product investments and sales and marketing initiatives, as well as the losses generated by our Financial Services segment on a year-to-date basis. Our capital expenditures have historically been less significant relative to our operating and financing cash flows, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. As of September 30, 2023, we had debt obligations, common stock and redeemable preferred stock outstanding. Borrowings Our borrowings primarily included our loan and risk retention warehouse facilities, asset-backed securitization debt, revolving credit facility and convertible notes. The amount of financing actually advanced on each individual loan under our loan warehouse facilities, as determined by agreed-upon advance rates, may be less than the stated advance rate depending, in part, on changes in underlying loan characteristics of the loans securing the financings. Each of our loan warehouse facilities allows the lender providing the funds to evaluate the market value of the loans that are serving as collateral for the borrowings or advances being made. The amount owed and outstanding on our loan warehouse facilities fluctuates significantly based on our origination volume, sales volume, the amount of time we strategically hold loans on our balance sheet, and the amount of loans being funded with our cash or member deposits. Refer to Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and to Note 12. Debt to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our borrowing arrangements and the capped call transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes. Covenants We have various affirmative and negative financial covenants, as well as non-financial covenants, related to our warehouse debt and revolving credit facility, as well as our Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock. Additionally, we have compliance requirements associated with our convertible notes, and certain provisions of the arrangement could change in the event of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, as defined in the indenture governing such convertible notes. The availability of funds under our warehouse facilities and revolving credit facility is subject to, among other conditions, our continued compliance with the covenants. These financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintaining: (i) a certain minimum tangible net worth, (ii) minimum unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, (iii) a maximum leverage ratio of total debt to tangible net worth, and (iv) minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. A breach of these covenants can result in an event of default under these facilities and allows the lenders to pursue certain remedies. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our subsidiaries are restricted in the amount that can be distributed to SoFi only to the extent that such distributions would cause the financial covenants to not be met. In addition, pursuant to our amended and restated agreement related to our Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock, we are subject to the following financial covenants: Tangible net worth to total debt ratio requirement, which excludes our warehouse, risk retention and securitization related debt; Tangible net worth to Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock ratio requirement; and Minimum excess equity requirements, where the measure of equity includes permanent equity and SoFi Technologies Redeemable Preferred Stock (exclusive of Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock), as applicable. We were in compliance with all covenants as of September 30, 2023. Capital Management SoFi Technologies, a bank holding company, and SoFi Bank, a nationally chartered association, are required to comply with regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and FDIC. From time to time, we may contribute capital to SoFi Bank. We are required to manage our capital position to maintain sufficient capital to satisfy these regulatory rules and support our business activities, including the requirement to maintain minimum regulatory capital ratios in accordance with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standardized approach for U.S. banking organizations (U.S. Basel III). If the Federal Reserve finds that we are not well-capitalized or well-managed, we would be required to take remedial action, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. 80 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to prohibit bank holding companies and banks, respectively, from paying dividends if, in their opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Under the National Bank Act, SoFi Bank generally may, without prior approval of the OCC, declare a dividend so long as the total amount of all dividends (common and preferred), including the proposed dividend, in the current year do not exceed net income for the current year to date plus retained net income for the prior two years. However, taking into account a wide range of factors, the OCC may object and therefore prevent SoFi Bank from paying dividends to the Company. As such, as of September 30, 2023, the Bank would not have any funds free of restrictions that are available for dividend payments. Restrictions on the ability of SoFi Bank to pay dividends to the parent company could also impact the Companys ability to pay dividends to common stockholders. Additionally, under the Federal Reserves capital rules, our bank holding companys ability to pay dividends is restricted if we do not maintain capital above the capital conservation buffer, as discussed below. Further, a policy statement of the Federal Reserve provides that, among other things, a bank holding company generally should not pay dividends on regulatory capital instruments if its net income for the past year is not sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the companys capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Based on this Federal Reserve policy, as of September 30, 2023, the Company generally would not have any funds free of restrictions available for dividend payments on regulatory capital instruments. These requirements establish required minimum ratios for Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and a Tier 1 leverage ratio; set risk-weighting for assets and certain other items for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios; and define what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. Additionally, regulatory capital rules include a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% that is added on top of each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to require banking organizations subject to their supervision to hold additional amounts of capital in excess of the minimum risk-based capital ratios. The risk- and leverage-based capital ratios and amounts are presented below: September 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Amount Ratio Required Minimum(1) Well-Capitalized Minimum(2) SoFi Bank CET1 risk-based capital $ 2,916,462 15.9 % 7.0 % 6.5 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 2,916,462 15.9 8.5 8.0 Total risk-based capital 2,968,169 16.2 10.5 10.0 Tier 1 leverage 2,916,462 15.8 4.0 5.0 Risk-weighted assets 18,378,777 Quarterly adjusted average assets 18,498,763 SoFi Technologies CET1 risk-based capital $ 3,292,842 14.3 % 7.0 % n/a Tier 1 risk-based capital 3,292,842 14.3 8.5 n/a Total risk-based capital 3,344,549 14.5 10.5 n/a Tier 1 leverage 3,292,842 13.6 4.0 n/a Risk-weighted assets 23,067,995 Quarterly adjusted average assets 24,212,987 ____________________ (1)Required minimums presented for risk-based capital ratios include the required capital conservation buffer. (2)The well-capitalized minimum measure is applicable at the bank level only. As of September 30, 2023, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. There have been no events or conditions since September 30, 2023 that management believes would change the categorization. Commitments In addition to our warehouse facility borrowings, revolving credit facility borrowings and convertible notes, our material commitments requiring, or potentially requiring, the use of cash in future periods primarily include commitments 81 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS associated with being the named sponsor of SoFi Stadium, including operating lease obligations and finance lease obligations, which expire in 2040, as well as sponsorship and advertising opportunities related to the stadium itself and the surrounding performance venue and planned retail district, and a three-year marketing arrangement entered into during 2022. Additional material commitments include operating lease obligations primarily associated with office premises and the remaining commitment related to a four-year cloud computing services arrangement that we executed in the fourth quarter of 2021. Guarantees We may require liquidity resources associated with our guarantee arrangements. As a component of our loan sale agreements, we make certain representations to third parties that purchased our previously held loans. We have a three-year obligation to GSEs on loans that we sell to GSEs, to repurchase any originated loans that do not meet certain GSE guidelines, and we are required to pay the full initial purchase price back to the GSEs. In addition, we make standard representations and warranties related to personal, student and home loan transfers, as well as limited credit-related repurchase guarantees on certain such transfers. If realized, any of the repurchases would require the use of cash. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other guarantee obligations. We believe we have adequate liquidity to meet these expected obligations. Factors Affecting Liquidity We are currently dependent on the success of our lending business. The primary drivers of operating cash flows related to our Lending segment are origination volume, the holding period of our loans, loan sale execution and the timing of loan repayments. Our ability to access whole loan buyers, to sell our loans on favorable terms, to maintain adequate warehouse capacity at favorable terms, to access new deposits and grow existing deposits and to strategically manage our continuing financial interest in securitization-related transfers is critical to our growth strategy and our ability to have adequate liquidity to fund our balance sheet. Our ability to attract and maintain deposits can be impacted by, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the banking sector (such as bank failures or exposure to credit, market, operational, legal and reputational risks), competition from other financial services firms, idiosyncratic events and the interest rates we offer, which can impact our liquidity from deposits. Through the third quarter of 2023, we continued to have strong deposit contribution. During 2023, we also provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks. There is no guarantee that we will be able to execute on our strategy as it relates to the timing and pricing of securitization-related transfers. Therefore, we may hold securitization interests for longer than planned or be forced to liquidate at suboptimal prices. Securitization transfers are also negatively impacted during recessionary periods, wherein purchasers may be more risk averse. Our cash flows from operations have also been impacted by material net losses. If our current net losses continue for the foreseeable future and we are not able to achieve GAAP net income profitability in 2023 as currently expected, we may raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt, which may not be at favorable terms when compared to previous financing transactions. Further, future uncertainties around the demand for our personal loans, home loans and around the student loan refinance market in general, including as a result of worsening macroeconomic conditions or continued turmoil in the banking and financial services sectors, should be considered when assessing our future liquidity and solvency prospects. In the future, our loan origination volume and our resulting loan balances, and any positive cash flows thereof, could also be lower based on strategic decisions to tighten our credit standards. In addition to our ability to pledge unencumbered loans against available warehouse capacity, we have relationships with whole loan buyers who have historically demonstrated strong demand for our loans. Securitization markets can also generate additional liquidity; however, financing through the securitization market could result in worse execution as compared to whole loans sales depending on market conditions and, in certain cases, we are required to maintain a minimum investment due to securitization risk retention rules. Additionally, our securitization transactions require us to maintain a continuing financial interest in the form of securitization investments when we deconsolidate the SPE or in consolidation of the SPE when we have a significant financial interest. In either instance, the continuing financial interest requires us to maintain capital in the SPE that would otherwise be available to us if we had sold loans through a different channel. As it relates to our securitization debt, the maturity of the notes issued by the various trusts occurs upon either the maturity of the loan collateral or full payment of the loan collateral held in the trusts, the timing of which cannot be reasonably estimated. Our own liquidity resources are not required to make any contractual payments on our securitization borrowings. 82 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Our long-term liquidity strategy includes continuing to grow our deposit base, maintaining adequate warehouse capacity, maintaining corporate debt and other sources of financing, as well as effectively managing the capital raised through debt and equity transactions. Although our goal is to increase our cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that our future operating plans will lead to improved operating cash flows. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) and FDIC regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institutions capital category is well capitalized or, with the FDICs approval, adequately capitalized. As of September 30, 2023, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (the "IRA"), was signed into law. The IRA enacted a 15% corporate book minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases effective after December 31, 2022. The IRA is not expected to have a material impact on our operations or cash flows for the foreseeable future. Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis The following table provides a summary of cash flow data: Nine Months Ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (6,979,198) $ (4,837,023) Net cash used in investing activities (476,335) (54,926) Net cash provided by financing activities 8,906,046 5,384,714 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities of $7.0 billion stemmed from a net loss of $348.7 million and an unfavorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $7.3 billion, partially offset by a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $647.7 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $13.1 billion during the period and also purchased loans of $197.5 million. These cash uses were partially offset by principal payments on loans of $5.1 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $839.8 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net cash used in operating activities of $4.8 billion stemmed from a net loss of $280.4 million and an unfavorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $5.0 billion, partially offset by a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $423.1 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $10.0 billion during the period and also purchased loans of $1.6 billion. These cash uses were largely offset by principal payments on loans of $2.0 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $4.7 billion. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $476.3 million was primarily attributable to net purchases of $280.9 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities, $72.3 million related to business combinations, net of cash acquired, which includes our acquisition of Wyndham and settlements of vested employee performance awards associated with the Technisys Merger, $97.1 million related to loan activities, primarily driven by credit cards, $77.1 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and $45.9 million related to purchases of non-securitization investments, primarily FRB stock and FHLB stock. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $101.3 million from our securitization investments. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net cash used in investing activities of $54.9 million was primarily attributable to proceeds of $99.8 million from our securitization investments, and the aggregate net cash acquired from the Technisys Merger and Bank Merger of $58.5 million. These sources were more than offset by net cash uses of $130.1 million related to loan activities, primarily driven by credit cards, $70.5 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and net cash uses of $7.2 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities. 83 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities of $8.9 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $8.3 billion. Additionally, our proceeds from debt financing activity of $1.2 billion exceeded our debt repayments of $595.2 million, which were primarily related to our warehouse facilities. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities of $5.4 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $4.9 billion. Additionally, our proceeds from debt financing activity of $821.1 million were partially offset by our debt repayments of $266.1 million, which were primarily related to our warehouse facilities. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. Other Arrangements We enter into arrangements in which we originate loans, establish an SPE and transfer loans to the SPE, which has historically served as an important source of liquidity. We also retain the servicing rights of the underlying loans and hold additional interests in the SPE. When an SPE is determined not to be a VIE or when an SPE is determined to be a VIE but we are not the primary beneficiary, the SPE is not consolidated. In addition, a significant change to the pertinent rights of other parties or our pertinent rights, or a significant change to the ranges of possible financial performance outcomes used in our assessment of the variability of cash flows due to us, could impact the determination of whether or not a VIE is consolidated. VIE consolidation and deconsolidation may lead to increased volatility in our financial results and impact period-over-period comparability. Historically, we have established personal loan trusts and student loan trusts that were created and designed to transfer credit and interest rate risk associated with the underlying loans through the issuance of collateralized notes and residual certificates. We hold a variable interest in the trusts through our ownership of collateralized notes in the form of asset-backed bonds and residual certificates. The residual certificates absorb variability and represent the equity ownership interest in the equity portion of the personal loan and student loan trusts. We are also the servicer for all trusts in which we hold a financial interest. Although we have the power as servicer to perform the activities that most impact the economic performance of the VIE, we do not hold a significant financial interest in the trusts and, therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary. Further, we do not provide financial support beyond our initial equity investment, and our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with nonconsolidated VIEs is limited to our investment. For a more detailed discussion of nonconsolidated VIEs, including related activity during the period, see Note 7. Securitization and Variable Interest Entities to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Condition Summary Changes in the composition and balance of our assets and liabilities as of September 30, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 were principally attributed to the following: an increase of $1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. See Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis for further discussion of our cash flow activity; an increase in loans held for sale of $7.4 billion, which was primarily related to increased personal loan originations and longer loan holding periods; an increase in deposits of $8.3 billion, which was primarily related to increased savings deposits from members and increased brokered deposits; and an increase of $902.8 million in gross warehouse and risk retention facility debt to support our originations during the current period, which reflected the net impact of $9.7 billion of cash borrowings and $8.8 billion of cash repayments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as revenues and expenses. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of 84 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. We evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changes in market conditions or factors specific to us. There have been no material changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates during 2023. For a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 within Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Goodwill We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis with a testing date of October 1 or whenever indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill impairment assessments require a significant amount of management judgment, and meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing goodwill for impairment could result in a material impact on the Companys results of operations and financial position. In interim periods, we perform a qualitative assessment for our reporting units to which goodwill is allocated to determine if, for any reporting unit, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In addition to the factors noted in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 for performing such an assessment, management also considers actual results for the current period and updated internal forecasts as compared to prior internal forecasts and other assumptions used in the quantitative annual assessment. An impairment of a reporting units goodwill is determined based on the amount by which the reporting units carrying value exceeds its fair value, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. An interim test is performed when events or circumstances occur that may indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit may be less than its carrying value. During the third quarter of 2023, the Technology Platform segment continued to experience slower growth rates than expected at the time of acquisition due to: (i) the uncertain macroeconomic environment, which has continued to impact customer spend volume, and (ii) continued longer sales cycles as a result of our shift in strategy to focus on diversified durable growth driven by potential new partners with scaled customer bases and interest in multiple Technology Platform products. These factors constituted a triggering event for goodwill testing purposes. As a result, we performed an interim quantitative test on the Galileo and Technisys reporting units to determine the existence and magnitude of potential goodwill impairment. We determined it was not necessary to perform an interim goodwill impairment test for our other reporting units. Management calculated the fair value amount of the Galileo and Technisys reporting units using a combination of a discounted cash flow (DCF) calculation, which is a form of the income approach, and a market multiples calculation, which is a form of the market approach. The discount rates used for the Galileo and Technisys reporting units in our interim quantitative assessment were 14.0% and 23.5%, respectively. The higher discount rate at Technisys was primarily driven by macroeconomic factors in Latin America, specifically the highly inflationary economic environment in Argentina. Additionally, management applied a terminal year long-term growth rate of 3.5% to both reporting units, consistent with previous quantitative assessments. As a result of this assessment, the fair value of the Galileo and Technisys reporting units were determined to be below their carrying values by 9.9% and 14.8%, respectively, resulting in management recognizing non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $124.5 million and $122.7 million for the Galileo and Technisys reporting units, respectively. As of September 30, 2023, if the discount rate applied to the estimated cash flows was increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the fair value of the Galileo and Technisys reporting units would decrease or increase by 6% and 4%, respectively. Similarly, if the long-term growth rate was increased or decreased by 50 basis points, the fair value of the Galileo and Technisys reporting units would increase or decrease by approximately 3% and 1%, respectively. Management cannot predict the occurrence of certain events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the value of goodwill. We continue to monitor the aforementioned conditions, general macroeconomic deterioration, including the interest rate environment, inflationary pressures, and the potential for a prolonged economic downturn or recession, as well as other factors, including those listed in "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Further persistence of the aforementioned conditions and these other factors could result in additional impairment charges in future periods. 85 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Recent Accounting Standards Issued, But Not Yet Adopted See Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements herein and Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022.