ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Social Capital Hedosophia Holdings Corp. V. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to SCH Sponsor V LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, would and variations thereof and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report as amended on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on April 22, 2021. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on July 10, 2020 formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash derived from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, shares and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments On January 7, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Plutus Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and our direct wholly owned subsidiary, and Social Finance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (SoFi). The Merger Agreement provides that, among other things and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, the following transactions will occur (together with the other agreements and transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the SoFi Business Combination): (i) prior to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing), we will domesticate as a Delaware corporation in accordance with Section 388 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (the DGCL), and the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2020 Revision) (the Domestication), (ii) at the Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, in accordance with the DGCL, Merger Sub will merge with and into SoFi, with SoFi continuing as the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary (the Merger), (iii) upon consummation of the Merger, and subject to the adjustments provided in the Merger Agreement, all of the common stock and preferred stock of SoFi, excluding the Company Redeemable Preferred Stock (as defined in the Merger Agreement), which will convert into Acquiror Series 1 Preferred Stock (as defined in the Merger Agreement), will be converted into the right to receive an aggregate number of shares of our common stock (after the Domestication), par value $0.0001 per share (SCH Common Stock), equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) $6,569,840,376 by (y) $10.00 and (iv) upon the consummation of the Merger, we will be renamed SoFi Technologies, Inc. The Closing is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions contained in the Merger Agreement, including the approval of our shareholders. On January 7, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain investors (collectively, the PIPE Investors), pursuant to which, on the terms and subject to the conditions therein, the PIPE Investors have collectively subscribed for 122.5 million shares of SCH Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price equal to $1,225.0 million (the PIPE Investment), a portion of which is expected to be funded by one or more affiliates of the Sponsor. The PIPE Investment will be consummated substantially concurrently with the Closing. The consummation of the proposed SoFi Business Combination is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. For more information about the Merger Agreement and the proposed SoFi Business Combination, see our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 7, 2021, as amended on January 12, 2021, and the SoFi Disclosure Statement that we have filed with the SEC. Unless specifically stated, this Annual Report does not give effect to the proposed SoFi Business Combination and does not contain the risks associated with the proposed SoFi Business Combination. Such risks and effects relating to the proposed SoFi Business Combination are included in the SoFi Disclosure Statement. 19 Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through March 31, 2021 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target for our Business Combination, activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of SoFi. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, a Business Combination. Additionally, we recognize non-cash gains and losses within other income (expense) related to changes in recurring fair value measurement of our warrant liabilities at each reporting period. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net loss of $60,394,659, which consists of changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $55,125,000 and operating costs of $5,289,511, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $19,852. Liquidity and Capital Resources On October 14, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 80,500,000 Units, inclusive of the underwriters election to fully exercise their option to purchase an additional 10,500,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $805,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 8,000,000 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $2.00 per Private Placement Warrant generating gross proceeds of $16,000,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option in full and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $805,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $42,659,062 in transaction costs, including $14,000,000 of underwriting fees, $28,175,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $484,062 of other offering costs. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $1,670,479. Net loss of $60,394,659 was impacted by the change in fair value of warrant liabilities of $55,125,000 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $19,852. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $3,619,032 of cash from operating activities. At March 31, 2021, we had investments held in the Trust Account of $805,037,070. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, excluding deferred underwriting commissions, to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. At March 31, 2021, we had cash of $39,940 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $2,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $2.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. We will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from our sponsors, or an affiliate of our Sponsor, officers, directors, or third parties. Our sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet our working capital needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern through October 14, 2022, the date that we will be required to cease all operations, except for the purpose of winding up, if a Business Combination is not consummated. These condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 20 Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, administrative and support services, provided to the Company. We began incurring these fees on October 14, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $28,175,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liabilities We account for the warrants issued in connection with our initial public offering in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 815-40, Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (ASC 815), under which the warrants do not meet the criteria for equity classification and must be recorded as liabilities. As the warrants meet the definition of a derivative as contemplated in ASC 815, the Warrants are measured at fair value at inception and at each reporting date in accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, with changes in fair value recognized in the Statement of Operations in the period of change. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net Loss Per Ordinary Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, if any, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption outstanding for the period. Net income (loss) per ordinary, basic and diluted for and non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net loss less income attributable to Ordinary shares subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of shares of non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the period presented. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2022 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. We early adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1,2021. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have an impact on our financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.