Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. You should read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as SoFi Technologies audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2024 and subsequent filings with the SEC. Certain amounts may not foot or tie to other disclosures due to rounding. Certain information in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described under the sections entitled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Page Business Overview 56 Business Highlights 60 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 61 Key Business Metrics 66 Key Factors Affecting Operating Results 69 Consolidated Results of Operations 71 Net Interest Income 72 Noninterest Income and Net Revenue 74 Noninterest Expense 75 Income Taxes 77 Summary Results by Segment 77 Lending Segment 78 Technology Platform Segment 84 Financial Services Segment 85 Corporate/Other Non-Reportable Segment 87 Liquidity and Capital Resources 87 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 93 Recent Accounting Standards Issued, But Not Yet Adopted 94 55 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Business Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as members and clients. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members Get Your Money Right and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. In order to help achieve our mission, we offer personal loans, student loans, home loans and related servicing. We offer a variety of financial services products, such as SoFi Money, SoFi Credit Card, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay, that provide more daily interactions with our members, as well as our Loan Platform Business which helps a broader range of borrowers to find lending solutions. We offer products and capabilities, such as SoFi At Work, that are designed to appeal to enterprises. We have also made strategic acquisitions to further expand our platform capabilities for enterprises, which we believe will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services. We have built a social area within our digital native application, which we refer to as the member home feed. The member home feed is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. Through the member home feed, there are significant opportunities to build frequent engagement and, to date, the member home feed has been an important driver of new product adoption. The member home feed is an important part of our strategy and our ability to use data as a competitive advantage. To complement these products and services, we believe in establishing partnerships with other enterprises to leverage our existing capabilities to reach a broader market and in building vertically-integrated technology platforms designed to manage and deliver our suite of products and technology solutions to our members and clients in a low-cost and differentiated manner. Our three reportable segments and their primary product offerings as of June 30, 2024 were as follows: _________________ (1)Loan Platform Business, formerly referred to as lending as a service, includes referred loans which are originated by a third-party partner to which we provide pre-qualified borrower referrals, certain loans which we originate in order to subsequently sell to a third-party partner, and certain loans associated with our Lantern Credit financial services marketplace platform. 56 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Members We have created an innovative financial services platform designed to offer best-in-class products to meet the broad objectives of our members and the lifecycle of their financial needs. Our platform offers our members (as defined under Key Business Metrics) a suite of financial products and services, enabling them to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their finances across one integrated platform, as well as personal financial management tools and benefits to complement our products. Our aim is to create a best-in-class, integrated financial services platform that will generate a virtuous cycle whereby positive member experiences will lead to new product adoption by existing members and enhanced profitability for each additional product by lowering overall member acquisition costs and increasing the lifetime value of our members. We refer to this virtuous cycle as our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We believe that developing a relationship with our members and gaining their trust is central to our success as a financial services platform. Moreover, we believe that some of the current frictions faced by other financial institutions are caused by a disjointed and non-seamless product experience, a lack of digital customer acquisition, subpar mobile web products instead of digital native apps and incomplete product offerings to meet a customers holistic financial needs. Through our mobile technology and continuous effort to improve our financial services products, we are seeking to build a financial services platform that can support all of our members financial services needs throughout their lifetime. Enterprises In addition to benefiting our members, our products and capabilities are also designed to appeal to enterprises, such as financial services institutions that subscribe to our enterprise services, and have become interconnected with the SoFi platform. We have continued to expand our platform capabilities for enterprises through strategic acquisitions, including: (i) our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, which provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions and which has allowed us to vertically integrate across more of our financial services, and (ii) the Technisys Merger in the first quarter of 2022, through which we added a cloud-native digital and core banking platform into our technology platform offerings and expanded our technology platform services to a broader international market. These expansions have deepened our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services, allowing us to not only reduce costs to operate our member-centric business, but also deliver increasing value to our enterprise customers. While our enterprises are not considered members, they are important contributors to the growth of the SoFi platform, and also have their own constituents who might benefit from our products in the future. SoFi Bank In February 2022, we closed the Bank Merger, pursuant to which we became a bank holding company and began operating as SoFi Bank. Golden Pacifics community bank business continues to operate as a division of SoFi Bank. As a bank holding company, we offer checking and savings accounts and credit cards through SoFi Bank. We are originating all new loan applications within SoFi Bank, and we intend to continue to explore other products for SoFi Bank over time. The key current and expected financial benefits to us of operating a national bank include: (i) lowering our cost to fund loans, as we can utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund loans, which have a lower borrowing cost of funds than our warehouse and securitization financing model, (ii) increasing our flexibility to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer periods, thereby enabling us to earn interest on these loans for a longer period, (iii) supporting origination volume growth by providing an alternative financing option, while also maintaining our warehouse capacity, and (iv) through deposits, providing us with meaningful member data that can allow us to better serve our members financial needs. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of certain potential risks related to being a bank holding company. International Operations While we primarily operate in the United States, we also operate internationally in Latin America and Canada largely through our Technology Platform segment, as well as in Hong Kong through SoFi Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited (an investment business). Our Reportable Segments We conduct our business through three reportable segments: Lending, Technology Platform and Financial Services. Below is a discussion of our segments and their primary products and non-product offerings. 57 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Lending Segment We offer personal loans, student loans, home loans and related servicing. We believe that our market opportunity within each of these lending channels is significant. Our lending process primarily leverages an in-application, digital borrowing experience, which we believe serves as a competitive advantage as digital lending becomes increasingly ubiquitous. Furthermore, our platform supports the full transaction lifecycle, including credit application, underwriting, approval, funding and servicing. Through data derived at loan origination and throughout the servicing process, SoFi has life-of-loan performance data on each loan in our ecosystem that we originate and on which we retain servicing, which provides a meaningful data asset. Net interest income, which we define as the difference between the earned interest income and interest expense to finance loans, is a key component of the profitability of our Lending segment. Personal Loans. We originate personal loans to help our members with a variety of financial needs, such as debt consolidation, home improvement projects, family planning, travel and weddings, to name a few. We offer fixed rate loans with flexible repayment terms. We generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 to $100,000, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 2 to 7 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our personal loans. Student Loans. We operate in the student loan refinance space, with a focus on prime and super-prime school loans, as well as the in-school lending space, which allows members to borrow funds while they attend school. We offer flexible loan sizes, repayment options and competitive rates. Within student loan refinancing, we generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 20 years. Within in-school loans, we generally offer loan sizes of $1,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 15 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our fixed and variable-rate student loans. Home Loans. We offer agency, non-agency and certain government loans (e.g., VA and Federal Housing Administration loans) for members purchasing a home or refinancing an existing mortgage. During 2024, we began offering fixed rate home equity loans and HELOCs. For our home loan products, we offer competitive rates, flexible down payment options for as little as 3% (or 0% for VA loans), a close on time guarantee, and educational tools and calculators. For one-unit properties, we generally offer loan sizes of $75,000 to $766,550 in conforming normal cost areas (with exceptions for smaller loan sizes considered on a case-by-case basis), up to $1,149,825 in conforming high cost areas (GSE-eligible loans above the normal conforming limit, which is determined by county). For multi-unit properties, we offer loan sizes up to $2,211,600. In addition, we offer loan sizes up to $3,000,000 for jumbo loans (loans in the jumbo loan program), up to $1,500,000 for VA loans, and up to $472,030 for Federal Housing Administration loans in most areas. Our fixed rate home loans generally have terms of 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years. We offer adjustable rate mortgage products for conforming and jumbo loans, with a fixed rate for 5, 7 or 10 years followed by rate adjustments every six months for the remainder of the 30-year term, and for VA and Federal Housing Administration loans, with a fixed rate for 5 years followed by rate adjustments every year for the remainder of the 30-year term. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our home loans. Lending Model We originate loans through our lending business, and have the option of pursuing a gain-on-sale origination model, whereby we seek to recognize a gain from these loans and sell them into either our whole loan or securitization channels, or holding loans on our balance sheet when advantageous. This enables us to maximize our return and balance our risk by earning interest on these loans for a longer period and to be selective in our sales arrangements. We expect to benefit from the continued mix towards deposit funding through operating SoFi Bank. We sell our whole loans primarily to large financial institutions, such as bank holding companies. In securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale accounting, the related assets remain on our balance sheet and cash proceeds received are reported as liabilities, with related interest expense recognized over the life of the related borrowing. In securitization transactions that qualify for sale accounting, we typically have insignificant continuing involvement as an investor. In the case of both whole loan sales and securitizations, and with the exception of certain of our home loans, we also continue to retain servicing rights to our originated loans following transfer. We directly service all of the personal loans that we originate. We act as master servicer for, and rely on sub-servicers to directly service, all of our student loans and GSE conforming home loans. We view servicing as an integral component of the Lending segment, as we believe our servicing function is an important asset because of the connection to the member it affords us throughout the life of the loan thereby enhancing the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop by increasing member touchpoints and driving new product adoption by existing members. We rely upon deposits, warehouse financing and our own capital to enable us to continue to expand our origination capabilities. Our ability to utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans has lowered our overall cost of asset-backed financing relative to alternative sources of funding. 58 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Underwriting Process We have developed an extensive underwriting process across each lending product that is focused on willingness to pay (measured by credit attributes and risk scores), ability to pay (measured through free cash flow), and stability (measured by credit experience). A key element of our underwriting process is the ability to facilitate risk-based interest rates that we believe are appropriate for each loan using proprietary risk models. We believe the outcome of this process helps us determine a more data-driven, risk-adjusted interest rate that we can offer our members. Further, our data and monitoring tools enable us to implement risk mitigation strategies quickly and efficiently, including underwriting standard adjustments to adapt our operations to changing environments and expectations. Our personal loan and student loan underwriting models are typically based on credit reports, standard industry credit scores, custom credit assessment models, and debt capacity analysis, as indicated by borrower free cash flow. Our underwriting strategy utilizes an advanced risk model that provides refined risk separation. Home loans originated by SoFi that are agency-conforming loans are subject to credit, debt-to-income, and collateral eligibility established by GSEs. Government loans, such as VA and Federal Housing Administration loans, are subject to the underwriting requirements established by the appropriate government agency. In addition to these requirements, agency-conforming and government loans are subject to credit eligibility overlays imposed by SoFi as well as individual investor requirements. Other non-agency loans originated by us, such as jumbo loans, are subject to investor credit criteria, which typically includes a minimum tri-bureau credit score, established credit history requirements, income verification, as well as maximum limits on debt-to-income and caps on loan-to-value based on an accredited appraisal. We also leverage our data to provide existing members a streamlined application process through automation. Across our loan products, existing members generally experience a higher approval rate than new members, subject to the existing member being in good standing on their existing products. Technology Platform Segment We provide technology platform services through a diversified suite of offerings which include an event and authorization platform accessed via application programming interfaces, a cloud-native digital and core banking platform and services related to both platforms. Our customers include financial and non-financial institutions in North America and Latin America. We earn technology product and solutions revenue through the use of the platforms, either on a per use basis, or from overall license and maintenance fee service arrangements related to those respective platforms. We also offer additional add-on technology solutions to support our clients and drive engagement, such as a conversational AI engine for customers of banks and financial institutions, and a real-time payment risk platform which employs AI and machine learning technology to enhance payment fraud mitigation strategies for financial customers. We continue to leverage investments made to integrate Galileo and Technisys and position the Technology Platform segment for diversified durable growth. Financial Services Segment Our suite of financial services products, by nature, provides more daily interactions with our members and is, therefore, differentiated from our lending products, which inherently have less consistent touchpoints with our members. We offer a suite of financial services solutions, the most significant of which are discussed below. SoFi Money: Checking and savings accounts provide a digital banking experience which allows members to spend, save and earn interest and rewards in flexible ways. We believe SoFi Checking and Savings accounts held at SoFi Bank are attractive to our members and prospective members due to our differentiated offerings, including competitive interest rates, access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage of up to $2 million through our Insured Deposit Program and the convenience and benefits of being part of a cohesive, simplified financial ecosystem within our mobile platform. SoFi Invest: A mobile-first investment platform offering members access to trading and advisory solutions, such as active investing and robo-advisory. Our interactive investing experience fosters engagement by allowing members to view and monitor other investors activity on the platform. Our active investing service enables members to buy and sell stocks and ETFs, as well as alternative investment funds, mutual funds and money market funds beginning in January 2024, to engage in options trading, to participate in IPOs, to buy and sell fractional shares, to engage in margin investing and to access a retirement investment account. Our robo-advisory service offers managed portfolios of stocks, bonds and ETFs. Additionally, we provide introductory brokerage services to our members and have invested heavily to create an appealing mobile investing experience. Additional financial services solutions offered within our platform include: SoFi Credit Card: Designed to help eligible members spend better with cash back rewards on every purchase and without limits. Our unlimited cash back credit card features no annual fee, no foreign transaction fees and flexible 59 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS redemption options through statement credit or other SoFi products, with a 10% boost on cash back rewards earned for credit card members with direct deposit through SoFi Checking. Lantern Credit: A financial services marketplace platform developed to help applicants that do not qualify for SoFi products, and small business owners, to seek alternative products from other providers, as well as to provide a product comparison experience. Other Loan Platform Business: Includes referred loans which are originated by a third-party partner to which we provide pre-qualified borrower referrals, and certain loans which we originate in order to subsequently sell to third-party partners. SoFi Relay: A personal finance management product that allows members to track all of their financial accounts in one place and gain meaningful insights into their financial health and habits, such as credit score monitoring and spending behaviors. SoFi Relay also provides us with unified intelligence about our members that offers information about what SoFi products and features may help our members best achieve their financial goals, allowing us to further personalize the SoFi experience for our members. We believe that the content and features we provide within our mobile application can spur more financial education, which leads to more ways for our members to actively engage in getting their money right and can ultimately demonstrate the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We earn revenues in connection with our Financial Services segment primarily in the following ways: Net interest income: Net interest income is a key component of the profitability of our Financial Services segment as it relates primarily to our SoFi Money and credit card products. Net interest income on SoFi Money is based on interest income determined using our FTP framework, net of interest expense based on the interest rate offered to our members on their deposits. Net interest income on credit card is based on the contractual interest included in credit card agreements, net of interest expense as determined using the FTP framework. See Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the FTP framework. Referral fees: Through strategic partnerships, we earn a specified referral fee in connection with referral activity we facilitate through our platform. Referral fees are paid to us by third-party partners that offer services to end users who do not use one of our product offerings, but who were referred to the partners through our platform. We also earn referral fulfillment fees for providing pre-qualified borrower referrals to a third-party partner who separately contracts with a loan originator. Our referral fee is calculated as either a fixed price per successful referral or a percentage of the transaction volume between the enterprise partners and referred consumers. Interchange fees: We earn interchange fees from our SoFi-branded debit cards and credit cards. These fees are remitted by merchants and represent a percentage of the underlying transaction value processed through a payment network. We engage a card association and enter into contracts that establish the shared economics of SoFi-branded transaction cards. Brokerage fees: We earn brokerage fees primarily from our share lending and payment for order flow arrangements related to our SoFi Invest product, in which we benefit through a negotiated multi-year revenue sharing arrangement, since our members' brokerage activity drives the share lending and payment for order flow volume. Business Highlights We achieved a number of key financial achievements in the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, including total net revenue of $598.6 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, representing increases of 20% and 28% over total net revenue in the same periods of 2023, respectively, as well as our third consecutive quarter of net income, achieving $17.4 million in the second quarter of 2024. This compares to a loss of $47.5 million in the same prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 was $0.01 and $0.03, respectively, compared to a loss per share of $0.06 and $0.11, respectively, in the same periods of 2023. Diluted EPS for the six month 2024 period did not include a benefit from the convertible debt exchange in the first quarter of 2024. Continued growth in both total members and products, along with improving operating efficiency, reflects the benefits of our broad product suite and Financial Services Productivity Loop strategy. Total members reached over 8.7 million as of June 30, 2024, a 41% increase from the prior year period, while total products reached nearly 12.8 million as of June 30, 2024, a 36% year over year increase. 60 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Lending segment contribution profit of $197.9 million and $405.7 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, at a margin of 58% and 60%, respectively, increased 8% and 3% over the respective 2023 periods, which had a contribution margin of 55% and 59%, respectively. Lending segment performance was driven by net interest income as a result of higher loan balances and yields. Average net interest margin of 5.83% and 5.87% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, an increase of 9 and 18 basis points, respectively, compared to 5.74% and 5.69% in the respective 2023 periods. Net interest margin expansion was driven by an increase in both average interest-earning assets and average yields, partially offset by an increase in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Origination volume increased 22% for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, primarily driven by continued strong demand for personal loans and home loans and stable growth in the student loan business, despite continued macroeconomic headwinds. Student loans saw some increasing demand in the third quarter of 2023 ahead of the resumption of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans, and we expect that we may continue to see modest growth in student loan refinancing. Our acquisition of Wyndham in the second quarter of 2023 provided increased capacity and capabilities for our home loans product, which we expect to continue to provide benefits. This contributed to a notable year over year increase in home loans alongside further diversification and expansion of our home loan product offerings in 2024, while we expect overall home loans growth could be correlated with rate movements in 2024. Technology Platform segment contribution profit of $31.2 million and $61.9 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, increased 82% and 93% over the respective 2023 periods, and total net revenue of $95.4 million and $189.8 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, increased 9% and 15% over the respective 2023 periods. Growth was driven by continued strong organic growth of existing clients and new product adoption, as well as notable contributions from increasingly diversified clients which have launched since the second half of 2023. Margin improvements were driven primarily by account growth, as we begin to realize the benefits of earlier investments made to support Technology Platform product development. We continue to make significant strides in our strategy of leveraging our unique product suite to pursue diversified growth and expansion via new products and geographies, in addition to larger, more durable revenue opportunities. We expect growth in segment revenue to continue to accelerate in 2024, as we are well positioned to capture opportunities from traditional financial institutions and nonfinancial categories. Within Financial Services, contribution profit of $55.2 million and $92.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, significantly improved compared to a contribution loss of $4.3 million and $28.6 million in the respective 2023 periods, and total net revenue of $176.1 million and $326.7 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 increased 80% and 82% over the respective 2023 periods. We achieved continued strong growth in deposits, ending the period with $23.0 billion of deposits as of June 30, 2024, allowing us to maintain diversified sources of funding and driving an increase in net interest income earned on our deposits. Further, noninterest income increased primarily due to an increase in interchange fees related to credit card and debit card transactions, as well as growth in referrals from our Loan Platform Business. By continuously innovating with new and relevant offerings, features and rewards for members, we grew total Financial Services products by 39% year over year to 11.0 million at quarter-end. We continue to realize scale in our marketing spend and improvement in operating leverage in the segment. We expect to continue to scale our products through increased brand awareness and network effects, and continue to improve contribution profit in the segment. The strength of our results underscores our belief that our suite of differentiated products and services provides the foundation for a diversified business that can endure through market cycles as well as exogenous factors. For instance, our access to multiple channels of funding, including deposit and loan warehouse funding, provides an advantage via increased optionality in sourcing liquidity through different environments and periods of capital markets volatility, as well as increases our flexibility to capture additional net interest margin and optimize returns, which typically provides more stable earnings in any macroeconomic environment, but is particularly important during times of excess macroeconomic volatility. During 2024, we continued to have strong deposit contribution from direct deposit members with a high quality median FICO score. We expect that our funding mix will continue to move towards deposit funding, which has a lower borrowing cost of funds than our warehouse and securitization financing model. We also continue to provide our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks in our Insured Deposit Program, further enhancing our benefits offering to our members. Our total capital ratio, as calculated under applicable regulatory capital rules, was 16.8% as of June 30, 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management and Board of Directors use adjusted net revenue and adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating performance, formulate business plans, help better assess our overall liquidity position, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. 61 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Accordingly, we believe that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. Adjusted Net Revenue Adjusted net revenue is defined as total net revenue, adjusted to exclude the fair value changes in servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation inputs and assumptions changes, which relate only to our Lending segment, as well as gains and losses on extinguishment of debt. We adjust total net revenue to exclude these items, as they are non-cash charges that are not realized during the period or not indicative of our core operating performance, and therefore positive or negative changes do not impact the cash available to fund our operations. This measure helps provide our management with an understanding of the net revenue available to finance our operations and helps management better decide on the proper expenses to authorize for each of our operating segments, to ultimately help achieve target contribution profit margins. Therefore, the measure of adjusted net revenue serves as both the starting point for how we think about the liquidity generated from our operations and also the starting point for our annual financial planning, the latter of which focuses on the cash we expect to generate from our operating segments to help fund the current years strategic objectives. Adjusted net revenue has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as total net revenue. The primary limitation of adjusted net revenue is its lack of comparability to other companies that do not utilize this measure or that use a similar measure that is defined in a different manner. Total Net Revenue and Adjusted Net Revenue In Thousands The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Total net revenue $ 598,618 $ 498,018 $ 1,243,613 $ 970,176 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (1,654) (8,601) (6,880) (20,685) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 1 (602) 74 (513) Gain on extinguishment of debt(3) (59,194) Adjusted net revenue $ 596,965 $ 488,815 $ 1,177,613 $ 948,978 ___________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on servicing rights, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. These assumptions are highly sensitive to market interest rate changes and are not indicative of our performance or results of operations. Moreover, these non-cash charges are unrealized during the period and, therefore, have no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on residual interests classified as debt, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated securitization VIEs by purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the closing of the securitization and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These residual debt obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, but they have no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive 62 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations. (3)Reflects gain on extinguishment of debt. Gains and losses are recognized during the period of extinguishment for the difference between the net carrying amount of debt extinguished and the fair value of equity securities issued. These non-cash charges are not indicative of our core operating performance, and as such are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) June 30, 2024 March 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 Total net revenue $ 598,618 $ 644,995 $ 615,404 $ 537,209 $ 498,018 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (1,654) (5,226) (6,595) (7,420) (8,601) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 1 73 10 928 (602) Gain on extinguishment of debt(3) (59,194) (14,574) Adjusted net revenue $ 596,965 $ 580,648 $ 594,245 $ 530,717 $ 488,815 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. (3)See footnote (3) to the table above. The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue for the Lending segment to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Total net revenue Lending $ 340,705 $ 331,441 $ 671,181 $ 668,522 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (1,654) (8,601) (6,880) (20,685) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 1 (602) 74 (513) Adjusted net revenue Lending $ 339,052 $ 322,238 $ 664,375 $ 647,324 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude, as applicable: (i) corporate borrowing-based interest expense (our adjusted EBITDA measure is not adjusted for warehouse or securitization-based interest expense, nor deposit interest expense and finance lease liability interest expense, as these are direct operating expenses), (ii) income tax expense (benefit), (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) share-based expense (inclusive of equity-based payments to non-employees), (v) restructuring charges, (vi) impairment expense (inclusive of goodwill impairment and property, equipment and software abandonments), (vii) transaction-related expenses, (viii) foreign currency impacts related to operations in highly inflationary countries, (ix) fair value changes in warrant liabilities, (x) fair value changes in each of servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation assumptions, (xi) gain on extinguishment of debt, and (xii) other charges, as appropriate, that are not expected to recur and are not indicative of our core operating performance. We believe adjusted EBITDA provides a useful measure to investors for period-over-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effects of certain non-cash items and certain charges that are not indicative of our core operating performance or results of operations. It is also a measure that management relies upon to evaluate cash flows generated from operations, and therefore the extent of additional capital, if any, required to invest in strategic initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net income (loss). Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include that it does not reflect the impact of working capital requirements or capital expenditures and it is not a universally consistent calculation among companies in our industry, which limits its usefulness as a comparative measure. 63 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net Income (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA In Thousands The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net income (loss) $ 17,404 $ (47,549) $ 105,447 $ (81,971) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings(1) 12,725 9,167 23,436 17,167 Income tax expense (benefit)(2) (2,064) (1,780) 4,119 (3,417) Depreciation and amortization(3) 49,623 50,130 98,162 95,451 Share-based expense 61,057 75,878 116,139 140,104 Restructuring charges(4) 4,953 Impairment expense(5) 1,243 Foreign currency impact of highly inflationary subsidiaries(6) 194 368 Transaction-related expense(7) 615 176 615 176 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(8) (1,654) (8,601) (6,880) (20,685) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(9) 1 (602) 74 (513) Gain on extinguishment of debt(10) (59,194) Total adjustments 120,497 124,368 176,839 234,479 Adjusted EBITDA $ 137,901 $ 76,819 $ 282,286 $ 152,508 ___________________ (1)Our adjusted EBITDA measure adjusts for corporate borrowing-based interest expense, as these expenses are a function of our capital structure. Corporate borrowing-based interest expense includes interest on our revolving credit facility, as well as interest expense and the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs on our convertible notes. Convertible note interest expense in the 2024 periods increased related to the issuance of interest-bearing convertible senior notes during the first quarter of 2024. (2)Our income tax positions in both the 2024 and 2023 periods were impacted by income tax expenses associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required, as well as federal taxes where our tax credits and loss carryforwards may be limited. Our income tax benefit position in the 2023 period was primarily attributable to income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. See Note 14. Income Taxes to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the prior year period, primarily in connection with growth in our internally-developed software balance. (4)Restructuring charges in the six-month 2023 period primarily included employee-related wages, benefits and severance associated with a reduction in headcount in our Technology Platform segment in the first quarter of 2023, which do not reflect expected future operating expenses and are not indicative of our core operating performance. 64 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS (5)Impairment expense in the six-month 2023 period relates to a sublease arrangement, which is not indicative of our core operating performance. (6)Foreign currency charges reflect the impacts of highly inflationary accounting for our operations in Argentina, which are related to our Technology Platform segment and commenced in the first quarter of 2022 with the Technisys Merger. For the year ended December 31, 2023, all amounts were reflected in the fourth quarter, as inter-quarter amounts were determined to be immaterial. (7)Transaction-related expense in the 2023 and 2024 periods included financial advisory and professional services costs associated with our acquisition of Wyndham. (8)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including market servicing costs, conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. This non-cash change is unrealized during the period and, therefore, has no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net income (loss) to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. (9)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated VIEs through purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the securitization close and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, which has no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net income (loss) to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. (10)Reflects gain on extinguishment of debt. Gains and losses are recognized during the period of extinguishment for the difference between the net carrying amount of debt extinguished and the fair value of equity securities issued. These non-cash charges are not indicative of our core operating performance, and as such are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) June 30, 2024 March 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 Net income (loss) $ 17,404 $ 88,043 $ 47,913 $ (266,684) $ (47,549) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings 12,725 10,711 9,882 9,784 9,167 Income tax (benefit) expense (2,064) 6,183 3,245 (244) (1,780) Depreciation and amortization 49,623 48,539 53,449 52,516 50,130 Share-based expense 61,057 55,082 69,107 62,005 75,878 Restructuring charges 7,796 Impairment expense 247,174 Foreign currency impact of highly inflationary subsidiaries 194 174 10,971 Transaction-related expense 615 (34) 176 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions (1,654) (5,226) (6,595) (7,420) (8,601) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions 1 73 10 928 (602) Gain on extinguishment of debt (59,194) (14,574) Total adjustments 120,497 56,342 133,291 364,709 124,368 Adjusted EBITDA $ 137,901 $ 144,385 $ 181,204 $ 98,025 $ 76,819 65 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Key Business Metrics The table below presents the key business metrics that management uses to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions: June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Variance % Change Members 8,774,236 6,240,091 2,534,145 41 % Total Products(1) 12,776,430 9,401,025 3,375,405 36 % Total Products Lending segment 1,786,580 1,503,892 282,688 19 % Total Products Financial Services segment(1) 10,989,850 7,897,133 3,092,717 39 % Total Accounts Technology Platform segment 158,485,125 129,356,203 29,128,922 23 % ___________________ (1) In the fourth quarter of 2023, we transferred the crypto services provided by SoFi Digital Assets, LLC, and began closing existing digital assets accounts and removing the account from Invest products. This process was completed in the first quarter of 2024. As of June 30, 2023, SoFi Invest products included 435,076 digital assets accounts. Excluding these accounts (that were closed as part of the transfer of the crypto services), total products increased by 3,810,481, or 43%, and total financial services products increased by 3,527,793, or 47%, year over year. See Summary Results by Segment for additional metrics we review at the segment level. Members We refer to our customers as members. We define a member as someone who has a lending relationship with us through origination and/or ongoing servicing, opened a financial services account, linked an external account to our platform, or signed up for our credit score monitoring service. Our members have continuous access to our CFPs, our member events, our content, educational material, news, and our tools and calculators, which are provided at no cost to the member. Additionally, our mobile app and website have a member home feed that is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. Beginning in the first quarter of 2024, we aligned our methodology for calculating member and product metrics with our member and product definitions to include co-borrowers, co-signers, and joint- and co-account holders, as applicable. Quarterly amounts for prior periods were determined to be immaterial and were not recast. Once someone becomes a member, they are always considered a member unless they are removed in accordance with our terms of service, in which case, we adjust our total number of members. This could occur for a variety of reasonsincluding fraud or pursuant to certain legal processesand, as our terms of service evolve together with our business practices, product offerings and applicable regulations, our grounds for removing members from our total member count could change. The determination that a member should be removed in accordance with our terms of service is subject to an evaluation process, following the completion, and based on the results, of which, relevant members and their associated products are removed from our total member count in the period in which such evaluation process concludes. However, depending on the length of the evaluation process, that removal may not take place in the same period in which the member was added to our member count or the same period in which the circumstances leading to their removal occurred. For this reason, our total member count may not yet reflect adjustments that may be made once ongoing evaluation processes, if any, conclude. We view members as an indication not only of the size and a measurement of growth of our business, but also as a measure of the significant value of the data we have collected over time. The data we collect from our members helps us to, among other things: (i) assess loan life performance data on each loan in our ecosystem, which can inform risk-based interest rates that we can offer our members, (ii) understand our members spending behavior to identify and suggest other products we offer that may align with the members financial needs, and (iii) enhance our opportunities to sell additional products to our members, as our members represent a vital source of marketing opportunities. When we provide additional products to members, it helps improve our unit economics per member, as we save on marketing costs that we would otherwise incur to attract new members. It also increases the lifetime value of an individual member. This in turn enhances our Financial Services Productivity Loop. Member growth is generally an indicator of future revenue, but is not directly correlated with revenues, since not all members who sign up for one of our products fully utilize or continue to use our products, and not all of our products (such as our complimentary product, SoFi Relay) provide direct sources of revenue. Since our inception through June 30, 2024, we have served approximately 8.8 million members who have used approximately 12.8 million products on the SoFi platform. 66 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Members In Thousands Total Products Total products refers to the aggregate number of lending and financial services products that our members have selected on our platform since our inception through the reporting date, whether or not the members are still registered for such products. Total products is a primary indicator of the size and reach of our Lending and Financial Services segments. Management relies on total products metrics to understand the effectiveness of our member acquisition efforts and to gauge the propensity for members to use more than one product. In our Lending segment, total products refers to the number of personal loans, student loans and home loans that have been originated through our platform through the reporting date, whether or not such loans have been paid off. If a member has multiple loan products of the same loan product type, such as two personal loans, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple loan products across loan product types, such as one personal loan and one home loan, that is counted as two products. The account of a co-borrower or co-signer is not considered a separate lending product. In our Financial Services segment, total products refers to the number of SoFi Money accounts (inclusive of checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank and cash management accounts), SoFi Invest accounts, SoFi Credit Card accounts (including accounts with a zero dollar balance at the reporting date), referred loans (which are originated by the Company or a third-party partner to which we provide pre-qualified borrower referrals), SoFi At Work accounts and SoFi Relay accounts (with either credit score monitoring enabled or external linked accounts) that have been opened through our platform through the reporting date. Checking and savings accounts are considered one account within our total products metric. Our SoFi Invest service is composed of two products: active investing accounts and robo-advisory accounts. Our members can select any one or combination of the types of SoFi Invest products. If a member has multiple SoFi Invest products of the same account type, such as two active investing accounts, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple SoFi Invest products across account types, such as one active investing account and one robo-advisory account, those separate account types are considered separate products. The account of a joint- or co-account holder is considered a separate financial services product. In the event a member is removed in accordance with our terms of service, as discussed under Members above, the members associated products are also removed. 67 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Products In Thousands Total lending products were composed of the following: Lending Products June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Variance % Change Personal loans 1,222,230 985,396 236,834 24 % Student loans 532,279 491,499 40,780 8 % Home loans 32,071 26,997 5,074 19 % Total lending products 1,786,580 1,503,892 282,688 19 % Total financial services products were composed of the following: Financial Services Products June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Variance % Change Money(1) 4,298,642 2,693,148 1,605,494 60 % Invest(2) 2,332,045 2,315,777 16,268 1 % Credit Card 260,585 213,395 47,190 22 % Referred loans(3) 65,308 47,439 17,869 38 % Relay 3,933,706 2,553,158 1,380,548 54 % At Work 99,564 74,216 25,348 34 % Total financial services products(2) 10,989,850 7,897,133 3,092,717 39 % ___________________ (1)Includes checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank, and cash management accounts. (2)In the fourth quarter of 2023, we transferred the crypto services provided by SoFi Digital Assets, LLC, and began closing existing digital assets accounts and removing the account from Invest products. This process was completed in the first quarter of 2024. As of June 30, 2023, SoFi Invest products included 435,076 digital assets accounts. Excluding these accounts (that were closed as part of the transfer of the crypto services), total Invest products increased by 451,344, or 24%, year over year, and total financial services products increased by 3,527,793, or 47%, year over year. (3)Limited to loans wherein we provide third party fulfillment services. Technology Platform Total Accounts In our Technology Platform segment, total accounts refers to the number of open accounts at Galileo as of the reporting date. We include intercompany accounts on the Galileo platform as a service in our total accounts metric to better align with the Technology Platform segment revenue reported in Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes intercompany revenue. Intercompany revenue is eliminated in consolidation. Total accounts is a primary indicator of the accounts dependent upon our technology platform to use virtual card products, virtual wallets, make peer-to-peer and bank-to-bank transfers, receive early paychecks, separate savings from spending balances, make debit transactions and rely upon real-time authorizations, all of which result in revenues for the Technology Platform segment. We do not measure total accounts for the Technisys products and solutions, as the revenue model is not primarily dependent upon being a fully integrated, stand-ready service. 68 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology Platform Accounts In Millions June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Variance % Change Total accounts 158,485,125 129,356,203 29,128,922 23 % Key Factors Affecting Operating Results Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges and other factors, including our loan origination volume, financial services products and member activity on our platform, growth in technology platform clients, competition and industry trends, general economic conditions and our ability to optimize our national bank charter. The key factors affecting our operating results are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, with notable updates provided herein. Industry Trends and General Economic Conditions The Federal Reserve increased the benchmark interest rate several times in 2022 and 2023, largely in response to high inflation, low unemployment and strong consumer demand, while balancing macroeconomic risks, such as increased market volatility. We have continued to see strong demand for our deposits as a result of our competitive interest rate offering and access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks in our Insured Deposit Program. Rate cuts are anticipated by the market over 2024 and 2025, but the timing of such cuts remains uncertain. High or rising interest rates have unfavorably impacted, and could continue to unfavorably impact, demand for refinancing loan products. In addition to benchmark interest rate considerations, economic and market volatility may adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Federal Reserve does not effectively curb inflation or interest rates further rise unexpectedly or too quickly or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or do not improve, it could have a negative impact on the overall economy and result in increased unemployment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our increased personal loan annualized charge-off rate year over year was reflective of our expectation of credit metrics to revert over time to more normalized levels, but remains healthy, while our lower credit card annualized charge-off rate was reflective of improvement in credit card delinquency rates. Negative changes to macroeconomic conditions may result in decreased demand for our products, increased operating costs and negatively impact our results of operations. Fair Value of Loans We measure our personal loans, student loans and home loans at fair value. Our fair value adjustments on loans impact our consolidated results of operations and include adjustments related to loans originated during the period, loans held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold or repurchased during the period. Fair value adjustments made in each reporting period are impacted by factors such as, among others, interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads, actual and estimated losses, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. In determining our fair value assumptions, we incorporate recent data impacting the capital markets, as well as factors specific to us. Changes in these factors, either positive or negative, can have a material impact on our results of operations. 69 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table summarizes the significant inputs to the fair value model for personal and student loans: Personal Loans Student Loans June 30, 2024 March 31, 2024 June 30, 2024 March 31, 2024 Weighted average coupon rate(1) 13.6 % 13.8 % 5.7 % 5.6 % Weighted average annual default rate 4.8 4.8 0.6 0.6 Weighted average conditional prepayment rate 26.1 24.7 11.0 10.5 Weighted average discount rate 5.75 5.78 4.44 4.33 ___________________ (1)Represents the average coupon rate on loans held on balance sheet, weighted by unpaid principal balance outstanding at the balance sheet date. As of the second quarter of 2024 relative to the first quarter of 2024, we observed the following trends: The weighted average conditional prepayment rates on personal loans and student loans increased by 145 bps and 48 bps, respectively. Increases reflect the impacts of observed increases in prepayments during the second quarter. The weighted average discount rates on personal loans and student loans decreased by 3 bps and increased by 11 bps, respectively. For personal loans, our discount rate assumptions decreased in the second quarter due to spreads tightening , partially offset by benchmark rates increasing by 3 bps. For student loans, our discount rate assumptions increased in the second quarter due to benchmark rates increasing by 6 bps, as well as spreads widening. Spread changes are indicated by asset-backed security and secondary bond markets. Annualized net charge-off rates on personal loans in the second quarter of 2024 were 3.8%, which remained lower than the assumed weighted average default rates in our fair value model of 4.8%. Personal loan charge-offs during the first and second quarters of 2024 were impacted by delinquent loan sales of $62.5 million and $69.4 million, respectively, of aggregate unpaid principal balance, a portion of which we expect to recover in future periods. Annualized net charge-off rates on student loans in the second quarter of 2024 of 0.6% were consistent with the assumed weighted average default rates in our fair value model. Our fair value assumption for annual default rate incorporates fair value markdowns on loans beginning when they are 10 days or more delinquent, with additional markdowns at 30 days, 60 days and 90 days past due. The combination of these and other factors resulted in fair value gains recognized on our personal and student loans portfolios, during the second quarter of 2024. Student Loan Relief In June 2023, Congress passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 which, among other things, ended the suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans pursuant to the CARES Act passed in 2020, which became effective 60 days after June 30, 2023, and prohibits the Secretary of Education from implementing any extension of any executive action or rule pursuant to the CARES Act. Following the end of the federal student loan payment moratorium on August 30, 2023, President Biden indicated that, between October 1, 2023 and September 30, 2024, he would allow federal loan borrowers to not be considered delinquent if they miss a payment and that the U.S. Department of Education will not refer borrowers who fail to pay their student loan bills to credit agencies. Additionally, President Biden has announced multiple relief measures for federal student loan borrowers, despite legal challenges at the Supreme Court to certain of President Bidens student loan forgiveness proposals. For example, the Biden Administration announced on July 14, 2023 that $39 billion in federal student loan debt would be eliminated to remedy mistakes of loan servicers, and that other student loan holders will have their loans adjusted. In the fall and winter of 2023, the Biden Administration estimated that it would cancel more than $132 billion of student debt for more than three million borrowers and continue to pursue debt forgiveness strategies including through the Saving on a Valuable Education (SAVE) Plan which offers forgiveness after as few as 10 years of payments for borrowers who originally took out $12,000 or less for college. In February 2024, the Biden Administration announced that it will automatically discharge $1.2 billion in loans for nearly 153,000 eligible borrowers under the SAVE Plan. In March 2024 and July 2024, the Biden Administration announced the approval of a cumulative $7 billion in additional student loan debt relief for 112,700 borrowers made possible by the U.S. Department of Educations Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (PSLF). Recently, on April 17, 2024, the U.S. Department of Education issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to include targeted student loan debt forgiveness to certain borrowers, including provisions under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, that would provide relief for eligible borrowers of runaway interest, forgiveness of outstanding debt related to loans which entered repayment at least 20 years ago, and additional provisions to facilitate relief related to income-driven repayment plans. 70 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS While we expect we may continue to see an increase in student loan refinancing volume following the end of the federal student loan payment moratorium, which occurred on August 30, 2023, as borrowers may look to refinance at a lower rate or, given the high interest rate environment, may look to extend the loan term, the timing and impact to our student loan refinancing product will largely depend on expectations regarding the introduction or implementation of additional relief measures, the interest rate environment, how competitive our student loan refinancing products are compared to our competitors and macroeconomic factors. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of income data: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 412,584 $ 291,126 $ 121,458 42 % $ 815,302 $ 527,136 $ 288,166 55 % Total noninterest income 186,034 206,892 (20,858) (10) % 428,311 443,040 (14,729) (3) % Total net revenue 598,618 498,018 100,600 20 % 1,243,613 970,176 273,437 28 % Total noninterest expense 583,278 547,347 35,931 7 % 1,134,047 1,055,564 78,483 7 % Income (loss) before income taxes 15,340 (49,329) 64,669 n/m 109,566 (85,388) 194,954 n/m Income tax (expense) benefit 2,064 1,780 284 16 % (4,119) 3,417 (7,536) n/m Net income (loss) $ 17,404 $ (47,549) $ 64,953 n/m $ 105,447 $ (81,971) $ 187,418 n/m 71 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net Interest Income The table below presents average balance and interest information for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, along with net interest income and net interest margin. Average Balances and Net Interest Earnings Analysis Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 2,809,405 $ 34,995 5.01 % $ 2,158,973 $ 24,127 4.48 % Investment securities 1,485,455 20,665 5.60 387,453 3,682 3.81 Loans 24,189,904 618,935 10.29 17,810,656 442,187 9.96 Total interest-earning assets 28,484,764 674,595 9.53 20,357,082 469,996 9.26 Total noninterest-earning assets 3,091,473 2,862,005 Total assets $ 31,576,237 $ 23,219,087 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 2,227,602 $ 12,619 2.28 % $ 2,071,639 $ 12,922 2.50 % Savings deposits 17,515,485 191,033 4.39 7,292,617 73,114 4.02 Time deposits 2,248,868 28,163 5.04 1,708,576 20,493 4.81 Total interest-bearing deposits 21,991,955 231,815 4.24 11,072,832 106,529 3.86 Warehouse facilities 827,113 13,098 6.37 3,204,559 48,080 6.02 Securitization debt 219,327 1,828 3.35 908,381 10,770 4.76 Other debt(2) 1,824,742 15,270 3.37 1,642,953 13,491 3.29 Total debt 2,871,182 30,196 4.23 5,755,893 72,341 5.04 Residual interests classified as debt 3,169 13,015 Total interest-bearing liabilities 24,866,306 262,011 4.24 16,841,740 178,870 4.26 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 707,439 786,175 Total liabilities 25,573,745 17,627,915 Total temporary equity 160,187 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,842,305 5,270,798 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 31,576,237 $ 23,219,087 Net interest income(3) $ 412,584 $ 291,126 Net interest margin(4) 5.83 % 5.74 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances. (2)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility and convertible senior notes. (3)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (4)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. 72 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 2,955,354 $ 72,263 4.92 % $ 1,784,179 $ 32,609 3.69 % Investment securities 1,123,775 30,867 5.52 475,190 9,421 4.00 Loans 23,870,538 1,237,376 10.42 16,432,315 799,529 9.81 Total interest-earning assets 27,949,667 1,340,506 9.64 18,691,684 841,559 9.08 Total noninterest-earning assets 3,046,070 2,992,932 Total assets $ 30,995,737 $ 21,684,616 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 2,160,572 $ 25,439 2.37 % $ 1,971,672 $ 25,774 2.64 % Savings deposits 16,130,130 352,056 4.39 6,388,356 121,274 3.83 Time deposits 2,611,862 65,771 5.06 1,425,530 32,597 4.61 Total interest-bearing deposits 20,902,564 443,266 4.26 9,785,558 179,645 3.70 Warehouse facilities 1,484,357 47,958 6.50 3,028,270 88,256 5.88 Securitization debt 276,576 5,486 3.99 879,521 21,196 4.86 Other debt(2) 1,789,076 28,494 3.20 1,644,173 25,185 3.09 Total debt 3,550,009 81,938 4.64 5,551,964 134,637 4.89 Residual interests classified as debt 4,080 14,529 141 1.96 Total interest-bearing liabilities 24,456,653 525,204 4.32 15,352,051 314,423 4.13 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 712,981 745,701 Total liabilities 25,169,634 16,097,752 Total temporary equity 228,838 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,597,265 5,266,490 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 30,995,737 $ 21,684,616 Net interest income(3) $ 815,302 $ 527,136 Net interest margin(4) 5.87 % 5.69 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances. (2)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility and convertible senior notes. (3)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (4)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. For the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023, net interest income increased by $121.5 million, or 42%, and net interest margin increased by 9 basis points. Average interest-earning assets increased by 40%, and average yields increased by 27 basis points. For the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023, net interest income increased by $288.2 million, or 55%, and net interest margin increased by 18 basis points. Average interest-earning assets increased by 50%, and average yields increased by 56 basis points. The increases were primarily driven by (i) higher interest income from personal loans and student loans, which was primarily a function of increases in the average balance and origination volume, as well as longer loan holding periods, (ii) interest-bearing deposits with banks, which reflected our strong liquidity position in a rising interest rate environment, (iii) higher interest income from investment securities primarily attributable to higher average balances, and (iv) lower interest expense on warehouse facilities and securitizations primarily attributable to lower average balances, which is reflective of our continued funding mix towards deposit funding, and partially offset by higher interest rates incurred on our facilities which is reflective of the higher interest rate environment year over year. These items were partially offset by higher interest expense on deposits attributable to a higher average balance and higher interest rates offered to our members. 73 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income The following table presents period-over-period changes in net interest income and the extent to which the variances are attributable to changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities or changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs. 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): ($ in thousands) Volume Rate Total Variance Volume Rate Total Variance Interest income: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 8,053 $ 2,815 $ 10,868 $ 28,703 $ 10,951 $ 39,654 Investment securities 15,266 1,717 16,983 17,837 3,609 21,446 Loans 162,115 14,633 176,748 387,540 50,307 437,847 Total interest income 185,434 19,165 204,599 434,080 64,867 498,947 Interest expense: Interest-bearing deposits 116,530 8,756 125,286 238,033 25,588 263,621 Debt (30,481) (11,664) (42,145) (45,882) (6,817) (52,699) Residual interests classified as debt (141) (141) Total interest expense 86,049 (2,908) 83,141 192,151 18,630 210,781 Net interest income $ 99,385 $ 22,073 $ 121,458 $ 241,929 $ 46,237 $ 288,166 ___________________ (1)We calculate the changes in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. Volume and rate changes have been allocated on a consistent basis using the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates. Noninterest Income and Net Revenue The following table presents the components of our total noninterest income, as well as total net revenue: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Loan origination, sales, and securitizations $ 54,872 $ 90,164 $ (35,292) (39) % $ 111,872 $ 213,498 $ (101,626) (48) % Servicing 6,659 9,052 (2,393) (26) % 13,633 21,794 (8,161) (37) % Technology products and solutions 85,866 82,289 3,577 4 % 171,538 155,090 16,448 11 % Other 38,637 25,387 13,250 52 % 131,268 52,658 78,610 149 % Total noninterest income $ 186,034 $ 206,892 $ (20,858) (10) % $ 428,311 $ 443,040 $ (14,729) (3) % Total net revenue $ 598,618 $ 498,018 $ 100,600 20 % $ 1,243,613 $ 970,176 $ 273,437 28 % Three Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $20.9 million, or 10%, for the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2024 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) the net effect of lower gains in the 2024 period on student and personal loan interest rate swap positions due to smaller increases in interest rates during the 2024 period, lower fair value gains on personal loans in the 2024 period, which were primarily impacted by lower discount rate assumptions and higher prepayment rate assumptions, and fair value gains on student loans in the 2024 period compared to losses during the 2023 period, which were primarily impacted by higher student loan origination volume. These decreases were partially offset by: (i) higher origination fees primarily related to a product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, and (ii) an increase in interchange and referrals revenue. Six Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $14.7 million, or 3%, for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2024 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) the net effect of fair value 74 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS losses on personal loans in the 2024 period compared to gains during the 2023 period, which were primarily impacted by higher prepayment and default rate assumptions as well as higher unpaid principal balance, lower fair value gains on student loans in the 2024 period, which were primarily impacted by higher prepayment rate assumptions and higher unpaid principal balance, and higher gains in the 2024 period on student loan, personal loan and risk retention interest rate swap positions primarily driven by larger increases in interest rates during the 2024 period and increased derivative instruments outstanding, These decreases were partially offset by: (i) higher origination fees primarily related to a product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, (ii) gain on extinguishment of debt of $59.2 million during the 2024 period, (iii) growth in technology services fees driven by increased processing and service arrangement activity among our integrated technology solutions clients as well as account growth, and (iv) an increase in interchange and referrals revenue. Noninterest Expense The following table presents the components of our total noninterest expense: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Technology and product development $ 132,167 $ 126,845 $ 5,322 4 % $ 263,087 $ 243,904 $ 19,183 8 % Sales and marketing 184,762 182,822 1,940 1 % 352,128 357,976 (5,848) (2) % Cost of operations 109,703 93,885 15,818 17 % 209,764 177,793 31,971 18 % General and administrative 145,006 131,180 13,826 11 % 290,246 254,869 35,377 14 % Provision for credit losses 11,640 12,615 (975) (8) % 18,822 21,022 (2,200) (10) % Total noninterest expense $ 583,278 $ 547,347 $ 35,931 7 % $ 1,134,047 $ 1,055,564 $ 78,483 7 % Three Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $35.9 million, or 7%, for the three months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2023, primarily driven by: (i) increases in amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology, (ii) increases in professional services costs, (iii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, which included debit card fulfillment services, primarily related to our SoFi Money product, as well as payment processing network association fees associated with increased activity on our technology platform, (iv) increases in direct member incentives, advertising and marketing expenditures, and (v) amortization of premiums on a credit default swap related to our student loans during the 2024 period. This increase was partially offset by decreased employee compensation and benefits, which was attributable to decreases in share-based compensation expense, partially offset by increases in headcount and salary related to support of our growth and impacts of the inflationary environment. Six Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $78.5 million, or 7%, for the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2023, primarily driven by: (i) increases in amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology, (ii) increases in professional services costs, (iii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, which included debit card fulfillment services, primarily related to our SoFi Money product, as well as payment processing network association fees associated with increased activity on our technology platform, and (iv) amortization of premiums on a credit default swap related to our student loans during the 2024 period. This increase was partially offset by decreased employee compensation and benefits, which was attributable to decreases in share-based compensation expense and restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by increases in headcount and salary related to support of our growth and impacts of the inflationary environment. 75 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Provision for Credit Losses Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses Allowance for Credit Losses Ratios The following table presents the ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: ($ in thousands) June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding Allowance for credit losses $ 51,908 $ 41,227 Loans held for investment, at amortized cost(1) 2,217,458 383,668 Ratio(2) 2.34 % 10.75 % __________________ (1)Loans outstanding balance excludes accrued interest. (2)The decrease in the ratio was primarily attributable to senior secured loans, for which we did not recognize an allowance for credit losses as we determined that our expected exposure to credit losses was immaterial, partially offset by credit cards, which was primarily reflective of an increase in total balances and associated loss reserves. We omitted the credit ratios associated with nonaccrual loans, as the balance of nonaccrual loans was immaterial. Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses The following table presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses and the percentage of loans outstanding by category to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Credit card $ 49,406 14 % $ 39,361 71 % Commercial and consumer banking 2,502 7 % 1,866 29 % Senior secured loans(2) 79 % % Total $ 51,908 100 % $ 41,227 100 %__________________ (1)Loans outstanding balances exclude accrued interest. (2)For the periods presented, we did not recognize an allowance for credit losses on senior secured loans, as we determined that our expected exposure to credit losses was immaterial. Analysis of Charge-offs The following table presents information regarding average loans outstanding, net charge-offs and the annualized ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 15,919,442 $ 151,834 3.84 % $ 11,896,106 $ 87,337 2.94 % Student loans 6,944,152 11,004 0.64 % 5,497,411 5,704 0.42 % Home loans 68,461 % 79,137 % Senior secured loans 839,159 % % Credit card 275,943 11,034 16.08 % 228,171 10,328 18.16 % Commercial and consumer banking 142,747 11 0.03 % 109,831 (3) (0.01) % Total loans $ 24,189,904 $ 173,883 2.89 % $ 17,810,656 $ 103,366 2.33 % 76 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 15,799,621 $ 286,221 3.64 % $ 10,745,911 $ 158,406 2.97 % Student loans 6,961,939 21,421 0.62 % 5,285,245 10,000 0.38 % Home loans 59,021 % 72,042 % Senior secured loans 645,173 % % Credit card 272,638 21,580 15.92 % 222,736 20,586 18.64 % Commercial and consumer banking 132,146 29 0.04 % 106,381 (3) (0.01) % Total loans $ 23,870,538 $ 329,251 2.77 % $ 16,432,315 $ 188,989 2.32 %___________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances. (2)Net charge-offs include both credit- and certain non-credit-related charge-offs. The provision for credit losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 decreased by $1.0 million, or 8%, and $2.2 million, or 10%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023. The decreases during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 were primarily related to improvement in credit card delinquency rates. Income Taxes For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, we recorded income tax (expense) benefit of $2.1 million and $(4.1) million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, we recorded income tax benefit of $1.8 million and $3.4 million, respectively. Our income tax positions in both the 2024 and 2023 periods were impacted by income tax expenses associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required, as well as federal taxes where our tax credits and loss carryforwards may be limited. Our income tax benefit position in the 2023 period was primarily attributable to income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not expected to be realized. In making such a determination of whether a valuation allowance is necessary, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence supporting the allowance (e.g., the results of recent operations and future forecasts). If the Company determines that it is able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, the Company decreases the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which reduces the provision for income taxes. Such a potential benefit has not been included in our guidance. Summary Results by Segment Contribution profit (loss) is the primary measure of segment-level profit and loss that, along with our key business metrics, is used by management to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions. Contribution profit (loss) is defined as total net revenue for each reportable segment less expenses directly attributable to the reportable segment and, in the case of our Lending segment, adjusted for fair value adjustments attributable to assumption changes associated with our servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt. See the sections entitled Consolidated Results of Operations, Summary Results by Segment and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for discussion and analysis of these key financial measures. 77 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Lending Segment In the table below, we present certain metrics related to our Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Metric 2024 2023 Change % Change 2024 2023 Change % Change Total products (number, as of period end) 1,786,580 1,503,892 282,688 19 % 1,786,580 1,503,892 282,688 19 % Origination volume ($ in thousands, during period) Personal loans $ 4,192,114 $ 3,740,981 $ 451,133 12 % $ 7,470,996 $ 6,692,339 $ 778,657 12 % Student loans 736,518 395,367 341,151 86 % 1,488,198 920,740 567,458 62 % Home loans 416,936 243,123 173,813 71 % 753,084 332,910 420,174 126 % Total $ 5,345,568 $ 4,379,471 $ 966,097 22 % $ 9,712,278 $ 7,945,989 $ 1,766,289 22 % Loans with a balance (number, as of period end)(1) 1,087,758 901,045 186,713 21 % 1,087,758 901,045 186,713 21 % Average loan balance ($, as of period end)(1) Personal loans $ 24,649 $ 23,767 $ 882 4 % $ 24,649 $ 23,767 $ 882 4 % Student loans(2) 44,165 45,523 (1,358) (3) % 44,165 45,523 (1,358) (3) % Home loans 283,726 277,077 6,649 2 % 283,726 277,077 6,649 2 % __________________ (1)Loans with a balance and average loan balance include loans on our balance sheet, as well as transferred loans and referred loans with which we have a continuing involvement through our servicing agreements. (2)In-school loans carry a lower average balance than student loan refinancing products. Total Products Total products in our Lending segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Lending segment. Origination Volume We refer to the aggregate dollar amount of loans originated through our platform in a given period as origination volume. Origination volume is an indicator of the size and health of our Lending segment and an indicator (together with the relevant loan characteristics, such as interest rate and prepayment and default expectations) of revenues and profitability. Changes in origination volume are driven by the addition of new members and existing members, the latter of which at times will either refinance into a new SoFi loan or secure an additional, concurrent loan, as well as macroeconomic factors impacting consumer spending and borrowing behavior. Since the profitability of the Lending segment is largely correlated with origination volume, management relies on origination volume trends to assess the need for external financing to support the Financial Services segment and the expense budgets for unallocated expenses. Personal Loans. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, personal loan origination volume increased relative to the corresponding 2023 periods, primarily due to increased demand driven by expanded marketing efforts and increased demand for debt consolidation products in a rising interest rate environment during 2023 that has persisted into 2024. Student Loans. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, student loan origination volume increased relative to the corresponding 2023 periods, as demand for student loan refinancing products increased after the resumption of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans as borrowers looked to refinance at a lower rate or, given the high interest rate environment, to extend the loan term. Demand for student loan refinancing products during the prior year was affected by the unfavorable impact of the suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans through August 30, 2023 and the expectation of debt cancellation for certain federal student loan borrowers which was struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court in June 2023, combined with a continued rising interest rate environment in 2023. Home Loans. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, home loan origination volume increased significantly relative to the corresponding 2023 periods. Our home loan origination volume increased notably beginning in the second quarter of 2023, aided by the increased capacity and capabilities subsequent to our acquisition of Wyndham. This was partially offset by rising interest rates through 2023, which tends to lower demand for home loans overall and shift demand from refinance originations to purchase originations, the latter of which is a more competitive landscape. Although purchase 78 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS originations historically represented a smaller percentage of our home loan originations, our mix has continued to shift toward more purchase originations, which we would expect to continue under similar macroeconomic conditions. Loans with a Balance and Average Loan Balance Loans with a balance refers to the number of loans that have a balance greater than zero dollars as of the reporting date. Loans with a balance allows management to better understand the unit economics of acquiring a loan in relation to the lifetime value of that loan. Average loan balance is defined as the total unpaid principal balance of the loans divided by loans with a balance within the respective loan product category as of the reporting date. Average loan balance tends to fluctuate based on the pace of loan originations relative to loan repayments and the initial loan origination size. In the table below, we present additional information related to our lending products: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Overall weighted average origination FICO 750 748 750 749 Personal Loans Weighted average origination FICO 747 745 747 746 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 13.26 % 12.89 % 13.45 % 12.80 % Interest income recognized $ 500,352 $ 363,981 $ 1,004,831 $ 651,208 Sales of loans $ 1,199,368 $ 50,013 $ 2,462,222 $ 50,013 Student Loans Weighted average origination FICO 764 768 766 768 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 5.62 % 4.93 % 5.64 % 4.86 % Interest income recognized $ 93,825 $ 65,769 $ 187,825 $ 124,429 Sales of loans $ $ 96,678 $ 294,187 $ 96,678 Home Loans Weighted average origination FICO 754 756 754 757 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 8.66 % 6.02 % 8.45 % 5.41 % Interest income recognized $ 1,453 $ 1,322 $ 2,462 $ 2,165 Sales of loans $ 381,202 $ 266,413 $ 725,439 $ 344,293 __________________ (1)Weighted average interest rate earned represents annualized interest income recognized divided by the average of the unpaid principal balances of loans outstanding during the period, which are impacted by loan holding periods as well as interest rates charged to borrowers. Weighted average interest rate earned was determined on a daily basis. 79 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Lending Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 279,212 $ 231,885 $ 47,327 20 % $ 545,748 $ 432,932 $ 112,816 26 % Noninterest income 61,493 99,556 (38,063) (38) % 125,433 235,590 (110,157) (47) % Total net revenue 340,705 331,441 9,264 3 % 671,181 668,522 2,659 % Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (1,654) (8,601) 6,947 (81) % (6,880) (20,685) 13,805 (67) % Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) 1 (602) 603 n/m 74 (513) 587 n/m Directly attributable expenses (141,114) (138,929) (2,185) 2 % (258,718) (254,117) (4,601) 2 % Contribution profit $ 197,938 $ 183,309 $ 14,629 8 % $ 405,657 $ 393,207 $ 12,450 3 % Adjusted net revenue(3) $ 339,052 $ 322,238 $ 16,814 5 % $ 664,375 $ 647,324 $ 17,051 3 % __________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on servicing rights, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. These assumptions are highly sensitive to market interest rate changes and are not indicative of our performance or results of operations. These non-cash charges, which are recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), are unrealized during the period and, therefore, have no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on residual interests classified as debt, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated securitization VIEs by purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the closing of the securitization and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, with fair value changes recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). These residual debt obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, but they have no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations. (3)Adjusted net revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure. For information regarding our use and definition of this measure and for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, total net revenue, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures herein. Net interest income Net interest income in our Lending segment increased by $47.3 million, or 20%, and by $112.8 million, or 26%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, which was primarily attributable to increases in average personal loan unpaid principal balances of $4.4 billion (42%) and $5.2 billion (55%), respectively, and in average student loan unpaid principal balances of $1.5 billion (30%) and $1.7 billion (34%), respectively, combined with a higher weighted average interest rate. The personal and student loan average balance increases were primarily attributable to higher origination volume and longer loan holding periods. Interest expense associated with funding our lending activities increased by $128.3 million, or 64%, and $321.3 million, or 92%, for the three and six-month year over year periods, respectively, primarily due to higher average loan balances as well as the sharp increases in benchmark rates which are reflective of the higher interest rate environment during 2023. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Lending segment decreased by $38.1 million, or 38%, and by $110.2 million, or 47%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, which was primarily driven by lower loan origination, sales, and securitizations income of $35.3 million and $101.6 million, respectively. 80 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Loan Origination, Sales, and Securitizations The following table presents the components of noninterest incomeloan origination, sales, and securitizations: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change In period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments(1) $ 56,098 $ 47,312 $ 8,786 19 % $ (15,942) $ 269,663 $ (285,605) n/m Economic derivative hedges of loan fair values 69,106 120,022 (50,916) (42) % 275,027 87,686 187,341 214 % Other derivative instruments(2) 425 65 360 554 % 2,996 2,263 733 32 % Loan origination fees 98,043 16,121 81,922 508 % 171,785 17,183 154,602 900 % Loan write-off expense(3) (162,833) (93,041) (69,792) 75 % (307,577) (165,848) (141,729) 85 % Loan repurchase (expense) benefit(4) (3,182) (153) (3,029) n/m (4,447) 272 (4,719) n/m Other (2,774) (146) (2,628) n/m (9,959) 2,298 (12,257) n/m Loan origination, sales, and securitizations noninterest income $ 54,883 $ 90,180 $ (35,297) (39) % $ 111,883 $ 213,517 $ (101,634) (48) %___________________ (1)Includes fair value adjustments on loans originated during the period, fair value adjustments of loans and securitization bond and residual interest positions held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold and consolidated securitization transactions during the period. Fair value adjustments are impacted by interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads and loss estimates, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. (2)Includes IRLCs and interest rate caps, as well as purchase price earn-out during the 2023 period. (3)For the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, includes gross write-offs of $187.5 million and $110.5 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $24.7 million and $17.5 million, respectively, of which $18.8 million and $11.4 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. For the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, includes gross write-offs of $363.0 million and $197.2 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $55.5 million and $31.3 million, respectively, of which $43.8 million and $18.3 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. (4)Represents the (expense) benefit associated with our estimated loan repurchase obligation. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Three Months. The decrease in loan origination, sales, and securitizations income was primarily driven by: (i) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2024 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, (ii) lower gains in the 2024 period on student and personal loan interest rate swap positions due to smaller increases in interest rates during the 2024 period, and (iii) lower fair value gains on personal loans in the 2024 period, which were primarily impacted by higher prepayment rate assumptions as well as higher unpaid principal balance. These decreases were partially offset by (i) higher origination fees primarily related to a product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate, and (ii) fair value gains on student loans in the 2024 period compared to losses during the 2023 period, which were primarily impacted by higher student loan origination volume. Six Months. The decrease in loan origination, sales, and securitizations income was primarily driven by: (i) fair value losses on personal loans in the 2024 period compared to gains during the 2023 period, which were primarily impacted by higher prepayment and default rate assumptions as well as higher unpaid principal balance, and lower fair value gains on student loans in the 2024 period, which were primarily impacted by higher prepayment rate assumptions and higher unpaid principal balance, and (ii) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2024 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates. These decreases were partially offset by: (i) higher gains in the 2024 period on student loan, personal loan and risk retention interest rate swap positions primarily driven by larger increases in interest rates during the 2024 period and increased derivative instruments outstanding, and (ii) higher origination fees primarily related to a product feature offered on personal loans, whereby a borrower may optionally elect to pay origination fees to qualify for a lower annual percentage rate. Servicing We own the master servicing on all of the servicing rights that we retain and, in each case, recognize the gross servicing rate applicable to each serviced loan. Sub-servicers are utilized for all serviced student loans and home loans, which represents a cost to SoFi, but these arrangements do not impact our calculation of the weighted average basis points earned for each loan type serviced. Further, there is no impact on servicing income due to forbearance and moratoriums on certain debt 81 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS collection activities, and there are no waivers of late fees. The table below presents information related to our loan servicing activities: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Servicing income recognized Personal loans $ 20,726 $ 5,649 $ 15,077 267 % $ 32,545 $ 12,186 $ 20,359 167 % Student loans 6,075 6,301 (226) (4) % 11,600 13,016 (1,416) (11) % Home loans 4,248 3,727 521 14 % 8,328 7,331 997 14 % Servicing rights fair value change Personal loans $ 47,498 $ (1,366) $ 48,864 n/m $ 101,600 $ (7,945) $ 109,545 n/m Student loans (4,889) (1,298) (3,591) 277 % (876) 2,550 (3,426) n/m Home loans 7,968 1,813 6,155 339 % 10,136 1,204 8,932 742 % Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Lending segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Direct advertising $ 55,826 $ 47,592 $ 8,234 17 % $ 100,595 $ 93,366 $ 7,229 8 % Compensation and benefits 30,625 30,420 205 1 % 58,879 56,106 2,773 5 % Lead generation 32,194 33,453 (1,259) (4) % 57,009 55,074 1,935 4 % Loan origination and servicing costs 12,181 13,019 (838) (6) % 22,611 23,369 (758) (3) % Professional services 2,777 2,767 10 % 5,155 4,960 195 4 % Intercompany technology platform expenses 436 212 224 106 % 880 212 668 315 Other(1) 7,075 11,466 (4,391) (38) % 13,589 21,030 (7,441) (35) % Directly attributable expenses $ 141,114 $ 138,929 $ 2,185 2 % $ 258,718 $ 254,117 $ 4,601 2 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include loan marketing expenses, member promotional expenses, tools and subscriptions, travel and occupancy-related costs and third-party loan fraud (net of related insurance recoveries). Lending segment directly attributable expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 increased by $2.2 million, or 2%, and $4.6 million, or 2%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to: (i) an increase in direct advertising primarily related to online and digital advertising, (ii) an increase in allocated compensation and related benefits, which reflected increases in average compensation in 2024, (iii) an increase in student loan lead generation channels, as well as a decrease in personal loan student loan lead generation channels during the three month period, and (iv) a decline in other expenses, primarily related to third-party loan fraud and tools and subscriptions. 82 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Transfers of Financial Assets We regularly transfer financial assets and account for such transfers as either sales or secured borrowings depending on the facts and circumstances of the transfer. The following table summarizes our current whole loan sales: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Personal loans Fair value of consideration received: Cash $ 1,136,812 $ 51,473 $ 1,636,563 $ 51,473 Receivable 3,036 Servicing assets recognized 70,472 888 104,021 888 Repurchase liabilities recognized (4,181) (360) (5,981) (360) Total consideration 1,203,103 52,001 1,737,639 52,001 Aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of loans sold 1,136,427 50,322 1,639,464 50,322 Realized gain $ 66,676 $ 1,679 $ 98,175 $ 1,679 Sale execution(1) 106.2 % 104.1 % 106.4 % 104.1 % Student loans Fair value of consideration received: Cash $ $ 98,624 $ 310,331 $ 98,624 Servicing assets recognized 2,792 8,249 2,792 Repurchase liabilities recognized (16) (46) (16) Total consideration 101,400 318,534 101,400 Aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of loans sold 99,916 303,578 99,916 Realized gain $ $ 1,484 $ 14,956 $ 1,484 Sale execution(1) % 101.5 % 104.9 % 101.5 % Home loans Fair value of consideration received: Cash $ 385,030 $ 267,052 $ 729,708 $ 344,871 Servicing assets recognized 3,390 2,803 6,222 3,757 Repurchase liabilities recognized (634) (751) (1,139) (847) Total consideration 387,786 269,104 734,791 347,781 Aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of loans sold 381,299 266,634 725,557 344,610 Realized gain $ 6,487 $ 2,470 $ 9,234 $ 3,171 Sale execution(1) 101.9 % 101.2 % 101.4 % 101.2 % _____________________ (1)Sale execution represents the ratio of cash proceeds and servicing assets recognized to the aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of the loans sold. Amounts included in repurchase liabilities are excluded from the calculation, as they typically would not materially differ from the fair value markdown on the loans over the repurchase period had they been held on balance sheet and entered delinquency. 83 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table summarizes our delinquent whole loan sales during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024. There were no delinquent whole loan sales during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023. Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2024 Personal loans Fair value of consideration received: Cash $ 5,549 $ 10,549 Servicing assets recognized 4,884 8,284 Repurchase liabilities recognized (28) (53) Total consideration 10,405 18,780 Aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of loans sold(1) 73,450 139,861 Realized loss $ (63,045) $ (121,081) Sale execution(2) 14.2 % 13.5 % _____________________ (1) During the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, includes $69.4 million and $131.9 million, respectively, of aggregate unpaid principal balance sold, related to late-stage delinquent loans for which we retained servicing and portions of recoveries. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, $47.1 million and $90.3 million, respectively, of unpaid principal balance was recorded in prior periods as a write down in noninterest incomeloan origination, sales, and securitizations in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). These loans were sold prior to charge-off during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, and otherwise would have been charged off as of June 30, 2024 consistent with our policy. In our other charged off whole loan sales, we typically do not retain servicing or recoveries. (2) Sale execution represents the ratio of cash proceeds and servicing assets recognized to the aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest of the loans sold. Amounts included in repurchase liabilities are excluded from the calculation, as they typically would not materially differ from the fair value markdown on the loans over the repurchase period had they been held on balance sheet and entered delinquency. Technology Platform Segment In the table below, we present the total accounts metric related to Galileo within our Technology Platform segment: 2024 vs 2023 June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Change % Change Total accounts 158,485,125 129,356,203 29,128,922 23 % See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Technology Platform segment. Technology Platform Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Technology Platform segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 555 $ $ 555 n/m $ 1,056 $ $ 1,056 n/m Noninterest income 94,883 87,623 7,260 8 % 188,748 165,510 23,238 14 % Total net revenue 95,438 87,623 7,815 9 % 189,804 165,510 24,294 15 % Directly attributable expenses (64,287) (70,469) 6,182 (9) % (127,911) (133,499) 5,588 (4) % Contribution profit $ 31,151 $ 17,154 $ 13,997 82 % $ 61,893 $ 32,011 $ 29,882 93 % Net interest income Net interest income in our Technology Platform segment of $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, relates to interest income earned on segment cash balances, which we began recording within the Technology Platform segment in the third quarter of 2023. Prior period amounts were determined to be immaterial, and presented within Corporate/Other. 84 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Technology Platform segment increased by $7.3 million, or 8%, and $23.2 million, or 14%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023. The increase was primarily attributable to growth in technology services fees driven by increased processing and service arrangement activity among our integrated technology solutions clients as well as account growth. Noninterest income also included $8.3 million and $15.3 million of intercompany revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to $5.0 million and $8.7 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively. The increase in intercompany revenue was primarily attributable to increased usage of technology platform services during the 2024 period by our Financial Services segment as we continue to leverage synergies to enhance our product offerings. Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Technology Platform segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 35,389 $ 39,342 $ (3,953) (10) % $ 71,687 $ 78,046 $ (6,359) (8) % Product fulfillment 14,929 12,325 2,604 21 % 28,576 22,548 6,028 27 % Tools and subscriptions 6,247 7,333 (1,086) (15) % 12,982 13,846 (864) (6) % Professional services 3,226 3,243 (17) (1) % 5,922 7,177 (1,255) (17) % Other(1) 4,496 8,226 (3,730) (45) % 8,744 11,882 (3,138) (26) % Directly attributable expenses $ 64,287 $ 70,469 $ (6,182) (9) % $ 127,911 $ 133,499 $ (5,588) (4) %___________________ (1)Other expenses are primarily related to travel and occupancy-related costs, advertising and marketing, data center costs and accounts receivable write offs. Technology Platform segment directly attributable expenses decreased by $6.2 million, or 9%, and $5.6 million, or 4%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits expense, which reflected a decrease in average headcount year over year, and partially offset by an increase in product fulfillment costs, primarily related to payment processing network association fees associated with increased activity on the platform. Financial Services Segment In the table below, we present the total products metric related to our Financial Services segment: 2024 vs. 2023 June 30, 2024 June 30, 2023 Change % Change Total products 10,989,850 7,897,133 3,092,717 39 % Total products in our Financial Services segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for a further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Financial Services segment. 85 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Services Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit (loss) for the Financial Services segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 139,229 $ 74,637 $ 64,592 87 % $ 258,942 $ 132,674 $ 126,268 95 % Noninterest income 36,903 23,415 13,488 58 % 67,741 46,479 21,262 46 % Total net revenue 176,132 98,052 78,080 80 % 326,683 179,153 147,530 82 % Directly attributable expenses (120,912) (102,399) (18,513) 18 % (234,289) (207,735) (26,554) 13 % Contribution profit (loss) $ 55,220 $ (4,347) $ 59,567 n/m $ 92,394 $ (28,582) $ 120,976 n/m Net interest income Net interest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $64.6 million, or 87%, and $126.3 million, or 95%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, which was primarily attributable to net interest income earned on our deposits, which includes interest income based on our FTP framework (which eliminates in consolidation) and interest expense to members. This net increase corresponds with the growth of deposits at SoFi Bank, as well as the impact of higher interest rates offered to members. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $13.5 million, or 58%, and $21.3 million, or 46%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to an increase in interchange fees, which coincided with increased credit card and debit card transactions, as well as growth in referral fulfillment activity, as we continue to drive volume to our partners. The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Financial Services segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit (loss) were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 32,309 $ 30,692 $ 1,617 5 % $ 64,814 $ 61,167 $ 3,647 6 % Member incentives 22,285 11,862 10,423 88 % 41,669 23,317 18,352 79 % Product fulfillment 17,221 11,261 5,960 53 % 33,797 21,870 11,927 55 % Provision for credit losses 11,634 12,615 (981) (8) % 18,799 21,022 (2,223) (11) % Direct advertising 6,190 15,566 (9,376) (60) % 15,187 28,641 (13,454) (47) % Lead generation 7,452 6,427 1,025 16 % 13,871 23,480 (9,609) (41) % Intercompany technology platform expenses 5,533 2,641 2,892 110 % 10,484 4,738 5,746 121 % Professional services 4,489 2,533 1,956 77 % 9,266 4,140 5,126 124 % Other(1) 13,799 8,802 4,997 57 % 26,402 19,360 7,042 36 % Directly attributable expenses $ 120,912 $ 102,399 $ 18,513 18 % $ 234,289 $ 207,735 $ 26,554 13 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include operational product losses, third-party fraud expense, network servicing fees, travel and occupancy-related costs, tools and subscriptions, and marketing expenses. Financial Services directly attributable expenses increased by $18.5 million, or 18%, and $26.6 million, or 13%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2024, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2023, primarily due to: (i) an increase in direct member incentives utilized to drive adoption and usage of our Financial Services products, the most significant of which was our SoFi Money product, (ii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, which included debit card 86 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS fulfillment services, primarily related to our SoFi Money product, (iii) an increase in intercompany expenses attributable to increased usage of technology platform services during the 2024 period, as well as (iv) net decreases in direct advertising and lead generation costs driven by efficient partnerships as we continue to drive expansion of our SoFi Money product. Corporate/Other Non-Reportable Segment Non-segment operations are classified as Corporate/Other, which includes net revenues associated with corporate functions, non-recurring gains and losses from non-securitization investment activities and interest income and realized gains and losses associated with investments in AFS debt securities, all of which are not directly related to a reportable segment. Net interest expense within Corporate/Other also reflects the financial impact of our capital management activities within the treasury function, which reflects the residual impact from FTP charges and FTP credits allocated to our reportable segments under our FTP framework. The following table presents the measure of total net income (loss) for Corporate/Other: Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 vs 2023 ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net interest income (expense) $ (6,412) $ (15,396) $ 8,984 (58) % $ 9,556 $ (38,470) $ 48,026 n/m Noninterest income (loss) (7,245) (3,702) (3,543) 96 % 46,389 (4,539) 50,928 n/m Total net income (loss) $ (13,657) $ (19,098) $ 5,441 (28) % $ 55,945 $ (43,009) $ 98,954 n/m Reconciliation of Directly Attributable Expenses The following table reconciles directly attributable expenses allocated to our reportable segments to total noninterest expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Reportable segments directly attributable expenses $ (326,313) $ (311,797) $ (620,918) $ (595,351) Intercompany expenses 8,295 4,954 15,296 8,695 Expenses not allocated to segments: Share-based compensation expense (61,057) (75,878) (116,139) (140,104) Employee-related costs(1) (67,786) (55,605) (130,170) (117,419) Depreciation and amortization expense (49,623) (50,130) (98,162) (95,451) Other corporate and unallocated expenses(2) (86,794) (58,891) (183,954) (115,934) Total noninterest expense $ (583,278) $ (547,347) $ (1,134,047) $ (1,055,564) ___________________ (1)Includes compensation, benefits, restructuring charges, recruiting, certain occupancy-related costs and various travel costs of executive management, certain technology groups and general and administrative functions that are not directly attributable to the reportable segments. (2)Represents corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to reportable segments, which primarily includes corporate marketing and advertising costs, tools and subscription costs, professional services costs, amortization of premiums on a credit default swap, corporate and FDIC insurance costs, foreign currency translation adjustments and transaction-related expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity We strive to maintain access to diverse funding sources and ample liquidity to fund our operating requirements, to pursue strategic growth initiatives and to meet our legal and regulatory requirements. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, including cash from operations, and investments in other highly liquid assets. We maintain a CALM policy that outlines specific requirements relating to the oversight of SoFi Technologies, Inc. (and its subsidiaries) capital planning, financial planning and forecasting, liquidity risk management, contingency funding planning, interest rate risk management, cash management and financial operations, among other activities. Oversight of these activities is the responsibility of our ALCO. The ALCO is comprised of a cross-functional leadership team that is responsible 87 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS for managing our use of capital, liquidity, sources and uses of funding, and sensitivities to various market risks, by identifying key risks and exposures, monitoring them appropriately, establishing tolerances and limits, mitigating risks where appropriate, and facilitating timely responses to changes in the macroeconomic environment and liquidity events to ensure the Company has the ability to meet its obligations. The following table summarizes our total liquidity reserves: June 30, 2024 Amount Available Amount Borrowed / Utilized Remaining Available Capacity Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,334,589 n/a $ 2,334,589 Investments in AFS debt securities(1) 1,078,456 n/a 1,078,456 Warehouse facilities(2) 7,580,000 1,146,323 6,433,677 Revolving credit facility(3) 645,000 499,100 145,900 FHLB advances(4) 377,702 27,200 350,502 Other lines of credit(5) 50,000 50,000 Total liquidity $ 12,065,747 $ 1,672,623 $ 10,393,124 ___________________ (1)Excludes investments in AFS debt securities which are pledged as collateral to the FHLB. (2)Includes personal loan, student loan and risk retention warehouse facilities. For risk retention facilities, we only include capacity amounts wherein we can pledge additional asset-backed bonds and residual investments as of the date indicated. As of June 30, 2024, warehouse facility maturity dates ranged from November 2024 through October 2027. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)As of June 30, 2024, the amount utilized under the revolving credit facility includes $13.1 million utilized to secure letters of credit. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4)As of June 30, 2024, we had $365.8 million of investments in AFS debt securities and $52.0 million of loans pledged as collateral to the FHLB to secure undrawn borrowing capacity of $377.7 million, of which $27.2 million was utilized to secure letters of credit. (5)Borrowing capacity with correspondent banks is unsecured. We believe our existing liquidity will be sufficient to meet our existing working capital and capital expenditure needs as well as our planned growth for at least the next 12 months. Sources of Funding Our primary funding sources include SoFi Bank deposits, warehouse funding, common equity capital, convertible debt, corporate revolving credit facility, securitizations, and other financings. We offer deposit accounts (checking and savings accounts) to our members through SoFi Bank. We also source brokered and non-brokered wholesale deposits, which include certificates of deposit. As of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, time deposit balances due in less than one year totaled $1.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. As of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, the amount of uninsured deposits totaled $465.5 million and $348.1 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2024, approximately 98% of our total deposits were insured. Uses of Funding Our primary uses of funds include loan originations, investments in our business, such as technology and product investments, as well as sales and marketing initiatives. In addition, our Financial Services segment has historically generated losses, and achieved contribution profit for the first time during the third quarter of 2023. Our capital expenditures have historically been less significant relative to our operating and financing cash flows, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. As of June 30, 2024, we had debt obligations and common stock outstanding. Borrowings Our borrowings primarily included our loan and risk retention warehouse facilities, asset-backed securitization debt, revolving credit facility and convertible notes. The amount of financing actually advanced on each individual loan under our loan warehouse facilities, as determined by agreed-upon advance rates, may be less than the stated advance rate depending, in part, on changes in underlying loan characteristics of the loans securing the financings. Each of our loan warehouse facilities allows the lender providing the funds to evaluate the market value of the loans that are serving as collateral for the borrowings or advances being made. The amount owed and outstanding on our loan warehouse facilities fluctuates significantly based on 88 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS our origination volume, sales volume, the amount of time we strategically hold loans on our balance sheet, and the amount of loans being funded with our cash or member deposits. Refer to Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and to Note 12. Debt to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our borrowing arrangements and the capped call transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes. Covenants We have various affirmative and negative financial covenants, as well as non-financial covenants, related to our warehouse debt and revolving credit facility. Additionally, we have compliance requirements associated with our convertible notes, and certain provisions of the arrangement could change in the event of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, as defined in the indenture governing such convertible notes. The availability of funds under our warehouse facilities and revolving credit facility is subject to, among other conditions, our continued compliance with the covenants. These financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintaining: (i) a certain minimum tangible net worth, (ii) minimum unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, (iii) a maximum leverage ratio of total debt to tangible net worth, and (iv) minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. A breach of these covenants can result in an event of default under these facilities and allows the lenders to pursue certain remedies. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our subsidiaries are restricted in the amount that can be distributed to SoFi only to the extent that such distributions would cause the financial covenants to not be met. We were in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2024. Capital Management SoFi Technologies, a bank holding company, and SoFi Bank, a nationally chartered association, are required to comply with regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and FDIC. From time to time, we may contribute capital to SoFi Bank. We are required to manage our capital position to maintain sufficient capital to satisfy these regulatory rules and support our business activities, including the requirement to maintain minimum regulatory capital ratios in accordance with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standardized approach for U.S. banking organizations (U.S. Basel III). If the Federal Reserve finds that we are not well-capitalized or well-managed, we would be required to take remedial action, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to prohibit bank holding companies and banks, respectively, from paying dividends if, in their opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Under the National Bank Act, SoFi Bank generally may, without prior approval of the OCC, declare a dividend so long as the total amount of all dividends (common and preferred), including the proposed dividend, in the current year do not exceed net income for the current year to date plus retained net income for the prior two years. However, taking into account a wide range of factors, the OCC may object and therefore prevent SoFi Bank from paying dividends to the Company. As such, as of June 30, 2024, the Bank would not have any funds free of restrictions that are available for dividend payments. Restrictions on the ability of SoFi Bank to pay dividends to the parent company could also impact the Companys ability to pay dividends to common stockholders. Additionally, under the Federal Reserves capital rules, our bank holding companys ability to pay dividends is restricted if we do not maintain capital above the capital conservation buffer, as discussed below. Further, a policy statement of the Federal Reserve provides that, among other things, a bank holding company generally should not pay dividends on regulatory capital instruments if its net income for the past year is not sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the companys capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Based on this Federal Reserve policy, as of June 30, 2024, the Company generally would not have any funds free of restrictions available for dividend payments on regulatory capital instruments. These requirements establish required minimum ratios for CET1 risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and a Tier 1 leverage ratio; set risk-weighting for assets and certain other items for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios; and define what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. Additionally, regulatory capital rules include a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% that is added on top of each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to require banking organizations subject to their supervision to hold additional amounts of capital in excess of the minimum risk-based capital ratios. 89 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The risk- and leverage-based capital ratios and amounts are presented below: June 30, 2024 December 31, 2023 ($ in thousands) Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Required Minimum(1) Well-Capitalized Minimum(2) SoFi Bank CET1 risk-based capital $ 3,649,976 17.0 % $ 3,331,616 17.3 % 7.0 % 6.5 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 3,649,976 17.0 3,331,616 17.3 8.5 8.0 Total risk-based capital 3,701,585 17.2 3,386,105 17.6 10.5 10.0 Tier 1 leverage 3,649,976 14.0 3,331,616 15.0 4.0 5.0 Risk-weighted assets 21,517,216 19,244,841 Quarterly adjusted average assets 26,130,750 22,273,285 SoFi Technologies CET1 risk-based capital $ 4,045,783 16.6 % $ 3,439,969 15.0 % 7.0 % n/a Tier 1 risk-based capital 4,045,783 16.6 3,439,969 15.0 8.5 n/a Total risk-based capital 4,097,392 16.8 3,494,458 15.3 10.5 n/a Tier 1 leverage 4,045,783 13.6 3,439,969 12.8 4.0 n/a Risk-weighted assets 24,423,088 22,883,185 Quarterly adjusted average assets 29,719,043 26,782,318 ____________________ (1)Required minimums presented for risk-based capital ratios include the required capital conservation buffer. (2)The well-capitalized minimum measure is applicable at the bank level only. As of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. There have been no events or conditions since June 30, 2024 that management believes would change the categorization. Commitments In addition to our warehouse facility borrowings, revolving credit facility borrowings and convertible notes, our material commitments requiring, or potentially requiring, the use of cash in future periods primarily include commitments related to sponsorship, advertising, and cloud computing agreements under which we are required to make payments over the life of the agreements. Additional material commitments include operating lease obligations primarily associated with office premises and finance lease obligations which expire in 2040. Guarantees We may require liquidity resources associated with our guarantee arrangements. As a component of our loan sale agreements, we make certain representations to third parties that purchased our previously held loans. We have a three-year obligation to GSEs on loans that we sell to GSEs, to repurchase any originated loans that do not meet certain GSE guidelines, and we are required to pay the full initial purchase price back to the GSEs. In addition, we make standard representations and warranties related to personal, student and home loan transfers, as well as limited credit-related repurchase guarantees on certain such transfers. If realized, any of the repurchases would require the use of cash. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other guarantee obligations. We believe we have adequate liquidity to meet these expected obligations. Factors Affecting Liquidity We are currently dependent on the success of our lending business. The primary drivers of operating cash flows related to our Lending segment are origination volume, the holding period of our loans, loan sale execution and the timing of loan repayments. Our ability to access whole loan buyers, to sell our loans on favorable terms, to maintain adequate warehouse capacity at favorable terms, to access new deposits and grow existing deposits and to strategically manage our continuing financial interest in securitization-related transfers is critical to our growth strategy and our ability to have adequate liquidity to fund our balance sheet. Our ability to attract and maintain deposits can be impacted by, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the banking sector (such as bank failures or exposure to credit, market, operational, legal and reputational risks), competition from other financial services firms, idiosyncratic events and the interest rates we offer, which can impact our liquidity from deposits. In 2023, we began to provide our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance 90 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS coverage through a network of participating banks in our Insured Deposit Program. We continued to have strong deposit contribution through the second quarter of 2024. There is no guarantee that we will be able to execute on our strategy as it relates to the timing and pricing of securitization-related transfers. Therefore, we may hold securitization interests for longer than planned or be forced to liquidate at suboptimal prices. Securitization transfers are also negatively impacted during recessionary periods, wherein purchasers may be more risk averse. Further, future uncertainties around the demand for our personal loans, home loans and around the student loan refinance market in general, including as a result of worsening macroeconomic conditions or market disruptions, should be considered when assessing our future liquidity and solvency prospects. In the future, our loan origination volume and our resulting loan balances, and any positive cash flows thereof, could also be lower based on strategic decisions to tighten our credit standards. In addition to our ability to pledge unencumbered loans against available warehouse capacity, we have relationships with whole loan buyers who have historically demonstrated strong demand for our loans. Securitization markets can also generate additional liquidity; however, financing through the securitization market could result in worse execution as compared to whole loans sales depending on market conditions and, in certain cases, we are required to maintain a minimum investment due to securitization risk retention rules. Additionally, our securitization transactions require us to maintain a continuing financial interest in the form of securitization investments when we deconsolidate the SPE or in consolidation of the SPE when we have a significant financial interest. In either instance, the continuing financial interest requires us to maintain capital in the SPE that would otherwise be available to us if we had sold loans through a different channel. As it relates to our securitization debt, the maturity of the notes issued by the various trusts occurs upon either the maturity of the loan collateral or full payment of the loan collateral held in the trusts, the timing of which cannot be reasonably estimated. Our own liquidity resources are not required to make any contractual payments on our securitization borrowings. Our cash flows from operations have also historically been impacted by material net losses. While we achieved net income profitability for the first time during the fourth quarter of 2023, changing business, macroeconomic or other conditions could potentially lead us, in the future, to raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt, which may not be at favorable terms when compared to previous financing transactions. Our long-term liquidity strategy includes continuing to grow our deposit base, maintaining adequate warehouse capacity, maintaining corporate debt and other sources of financing, as well as effectively managing the capital raised through debt and equity transactions. Although our goal is to increase our cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that our future operating plans will lead to improved operating cash flows. The FDIA and FDIC regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institutions capital category is well capitalized or, with the FDICs approval, adequately capitalized. As of June 30, 2024, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis The following table provides a summary of cash flow data: Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 253,877 $ (4,292,679) Net cash used in investing activities (3,456,101) (307,826) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,318,593 6,255,232 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities of $253.9 million stemmed from net income of $105.4 million, a favorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $32.5 million, and a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $116.0 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $8.2 billion during the period and also purchased loans 91 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS of $19.1 million. These cash uses were partially offset by principal payments on loans of $4.7 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $3.4 billion. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities of $4.3 billion stemmed from a net loss of $82.0 million and an unfavorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $4.5 billion, partially offset by a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $259.5 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $7.9 billion during the period and also purchased loans of $175.2 million. These cash uses were partially offset by principal payments on loans of $3.1 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $491.0 million Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2024, net cash used in investing activities of $3.5 billion was primarily attributable to $2.6 billion related to loan activities. Changes in loans held for investment was primarily a result of loan originations during the period of $3.0 billion, partially offset by principal payments on loans of $300.8 million and proceeds from loan sales of $122.7 million, as well as net outflows related to credit cards of $25.1 million. Other cash uses included net purchases of $837.6 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities, $68.7 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and $13.8 million related to purchases of non-securitization investments, primarily FRB stock and FHLB stock. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $22.7 million from our securitization investments. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $307.8 million was primarily attributable to net purchases of $134.4 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities, $72.3 million related to business combinations, net of cash acquired, which includes our acquisition of Wyndham and settlements of vested employee performance awards associated with the Technisys Merger, $62.0 million related to loan activities, primarily driven by credit cards, $49.1 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and $16.7 million related to purchases of non-securitization investments, primarily FRB stock and FHLB stock. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $29.0 million from our securitization investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2024, net cash provided by financing activities of $2.3 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $4.3 billion and proceeds from the issuance of our 2029 convertible notes of $845.3 million. This was partially offset by our net change in debt facilities of $2.1 billion related to our warehouses, and debt repayments of $297.2 million. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. In addition, we had an outflow of $323.4 million related to the redemption of our Series 1 preferred stock. For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities of $6.3 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $5.4 billion. Additionally, our proceeds from debt financing activity of $1.3 billion exceeded our debt repayments of $407.7 million, which were primarily related to our warehouse facilities. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. Other Arrangements We enter into arrangements in which we originate loans, establish an SPE and transfer loans to the SPE, which has historically served as an important source of liquidity. We also retain the servicing rights of the underlying loans and hold additional interests in the SPE. When an SPE is determined not to be a VIE or when an SPE is determined to be a VIE but we are not the primary beneficiary, the SPE is not consolidated. In addition, a significant change to the pertinent rights of other parties or our pertinent rights, or a significant change to the ranges of possible financial performance outcomes used in our assessment of the variability of cash flows due to us, could impact the determination of whether or not a VIE is consolidated. VIE consolidation and deconsolidation may lead to increased volatility in our financial results and impact period-over-period comparability. Historically, we have established personal loan trusts and student loan trusts that were created and designed to transfer credit and interest rate risk associated with the underlying loans through the issuance of collateralized notes and residual certificates. We hold a variable interest in the trusts through our ownership of collateralized notes in the form of asset-backed bonds and residual certificates. The residual certificates absorb variability and represent the equity ownership interest in the equity portion of the personal loan and student loan trusts. 92 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS We are also the servicer for all trusts in which we hold a financial interest. Although we have the power as servicer to perform the activities that most impact the economic performance of the VIE, we do not hold a significant financial interest in the trusts and, therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary. Further, we do not provide financial support beyond our initial equity investment, and our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with nonconsolidated VIEs is limited to our investment. For a more detailed discussion of nonconsolidated VIEs, including related activity during the period, see Note 7. Securitization and Variable Interest Entities to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Condition Summary Changes in the composition and balance of our assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2024 compared to December 31, 2023 were principally attributed to the following: a decrease of $883.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. See Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis for further discussion of our cash flow activity; an increase in loans held for investment of $1.8 billion, primarily related to senior secured loans and longer loan holding periods on student loans; an increase in loans held for sale of $496.8 million, which was primarily related to personal loan originations; an increase in investments in AFS debt securities portfolio of $849.0 million. Our portfolio primarily consists of U.S. Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities of high credit quality, utilized in our ongoing asset-liability management activities; an increase in deposits of $4.4 billion, which was primarily related to increased savings deposits from members; and a decrease of $2.1 billion in gross warehouse and risk retention facility debt as we continue to use our consumer deposit growth to replace higher cost of funding sources. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as revenues and expenses. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and which are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. We evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changes in market conditions or factors specific to us. There have been no material changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates during 2024. For a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 within Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Goodwill We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis with a testing date of October 1 or whenever indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill impairment assessments require a significant amount of management judgment, and meaningful change in one or more of the underlying forecasts, estimates, or assumptions used in testing goodwill for impairment could result in a material impact on the Companys results of operations and financial position. In interim periods, we perform a qualitative assessment for our reporting units to which goodwill is allocated to determine if, for any reporting unit, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In addition to the factors noted in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 for performing such an assessment, management also considers actual results for the current period and updated internal forecasts as compared to prior internal forecasts and other assumptions used in the quantitative annual assessment. Based on this assessment, while management does not believe that the goodwill in any of the reporting units is impaired as of June 30, 2024, management has determined that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the Galileo and 93 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technisys reporting units within the Technology Platform segment, with goodwill of $1.34 billion, are not substantially in excess of their carrying amounts. Management cannot predict the occurrence of certain events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the value of goodwill. We continue to monitor the aforementioned conditions, general macroeconomic deterioration, including the interest rate environment, inflationary pressures, and the potential for a prolonged economic downturn or recession, as well as other factors, including those listed in "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Further persistence of the aforementioned conditions and these other factors could result in additional impairment charges in future periods. Recent Accounting Standards Issued, But Not Yet Adopted See Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements herein and Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023.