Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. You should read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as SoFi Technologies audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023 and subsequent filings with the SEC. Certain amounts may not foot or tie to other disclosures due to rounding. Certain information in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described under the sections entitled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Business Overview We are a member-centric, one-stop shop for financial services that, through our Lending and Financial Services products, allows members to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their money. We refer to our customers as members and clients. Our mission is to help our members achieve financial independence in order to realize their ambitions. To us, financial independence does not mean being wealthy, but rather represents the ability of our members to have the financial means to achieve their personal objectives at each stage of life, such as owning a home, having a family, or having a career of their choice more simply stated, to have enough money to do what they want. We were founded in 2011 and have developed a suite of financial products that offers the speed, selection, content and convenience that only an integrated digital platform can provide. In order for us to achieve our mission, we have to help people get their money right, which means providing them with the ability to borrow better, save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. Everything we do today is geared toward helping our members Get Your Money Right and we strive to innovate and build ways for our members to achieve this goal. In order to help achieve our mission, we offer personal loans, student loans and home loans and related servicing. We also offer a variety of financial services products, such as SoFi Money, SoFi Credit Card, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay, that provide more daily interactions with our members, and we offer products and capabilities, such as SoFi At Work, that are designed to appeal to enterprises. We have also made strategic acquisitions to further expand our platform capabilities for enterprises, which we believe will deepen our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services. Our three reportable segments and their primary product offerings as of June 30, 2023 were as follows: Members We have created an innovative financial services platform designed to offer best-in-class products to meet the broad objectives of our members and the lifecycle of their financial needs. Our platform offers our members (as defined under Key 49 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Business Metrics) a suite of financial products and services, enabling them to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect their finances across one integrated platform, as well as personal financial management tools and benefits to complement our products. Our aim is to create a best-in-class, integrated financial services platform that will generate a virtuous cycle whereby positive member experiences will lead to new product adoption by existing members and enhanced profitability for each additional product by lowering overall member acquisition costs and increasing the lifetime value of our members. We refer to this virtuous cycle as our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We believe that developing a relationship with our members and gaining their trust is central to our success as a financial services platform. Moreover, we believe that some of the current frictions faced by other financial institutions are caused by a disjointed and non-seamless product experience, a lack of digital customer acquisition, subpar mobile web products instead of digital native apps and incomplete product offerings to meet a customers holistic financial needs. Through our mobile technology and continuous effort to improve our financial services products, we are seeking to build a financial services platform that can support all of our members financial services needs throughout their lifetime. Enterprises In addition to benefiting our members, our products and capabilities are also designed to appeal to enterprises, such as financial services institutions that subscribe to our enterprise services, and have become interconnected with the SoFi platform. We have continued to expand our platform capabilities for enterprises through strategic acquisitions, including: (i) our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, which provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions and which has allowed us to vertically integrate across more of our financial services, and (ii) the Technisys Merger in the first quarter of 2022, through which we added a cloud-native digital and core banking platform into our technology platform offerings and expanded our technology platform services to a broader international market. These expansions have deepened our participation in the entire technology ecosystem powering digital financial services, allowing us to not only reduce costs to operate our member-centric business, but also deliver increasing value to our enterprise customers. While our enterprises are not considered members, they are important contributors to the growth of the SoFi platform, and also have their own constituents who might benefit from our products in the future. SoFi Bank In February 2022, we closed the Bank Merger, pursuant to which we became a bank holding company and began operating SoFi Bank. Golden Pacifics community bank business continues to operate as a division of SoFi Bank. As a bank holding company, we offer checking and savings accounts through SoFi Bank. We are originating all new loan applications within SoFi Bank and we have transferred SoFi Credit Card and the majority of other lending products to SoFi Bank. We intend to continue to explore other products for SoFi Bank over time. The key current and expected financial benefits to us of operating a national bank include: (i) lowering our cost to fund loans, as we can utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund loans, which have a lower borrowing cost of funds than our warehouse and securitization financing model, (ii) increasing our flexibility to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer periods, thereby enabling us to earn interest on these loans for a longer period, (iii) supporting origination volume growth by providing an alternative financing option, while also maintaining our warehouse capacity, and (iv) through deposits, providing us with meaningful member data that can allow us to better serve our members financial needs. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of certain potential risks related to being a bank holding company. International Operations While we primarily operate in the United States, we expanded into Hong Kong with our acquisition of 8 Limited (an investment business) in 2020, we gained clients in Canada, Mexico and Colombia with our acquisition of Galileo in 2020, and we further expanded into Latin America with the Technisys Merger in 2022. Our Reportable Segments We conduct our business through three reportable segments: Lending, Technology Platform and Financial Services. Below is a discussion of our segments and their primary products and non-product offerings. Lending Segment We offer personal loans, student loans and home loans and related servicing. We believe that our market opportunity within each of these lending channels is significant. Our lending process primarily leverages an in-application, digital borrowing experience, which we believe serves as a competitive advantage as digital lending becomes increasingly ubiquitous. Furthermore, our platform supports the full transaction lifecycle, including credit application, underwriting, approval, funding 50 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS and servicing. Through data derived at loan origination and throughout the servicing process, SoFi has life-of-loan performance data on each loan in our ecosystem that we originate and on which we retain servicing, which provides a meaningful data asset. Net interest income, which we define as the difference between the earned interest income and interest expense to finance loans, is a key component of the profitability of our Lending segment. We implemented an FTP framework to attribute net interest income to our business segments based on their usage and/or provision of funding, under which Lending segment net interest income represents the difference between interest income earned on our loans and an FTP charge for the segments use of funds to originate loans, which can fluctuate based on changes in interest rates, funding curves, the composition of our balance sheet and the availability of capital. See Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the FTP framework. Personal Loans. We originate personal loans to help our members with a variety of financial needs, such as debt consolidation, home improvement projects, family planning, travel and weddings, to name a few. We offer fixed rate loans with flexible repayment terms, including unemployment protection. We generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 to $100,000, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 2 to 7 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our personal loans. Student Loans. We operate in the student loan refinance space, with a focus on prime and super-prime school loans, as well as the in-school lending space, which allows members to borrow funds while they attend school. We offer flexible loan sizes, repayment options and competitive rates. Within student loan refinancing, we generally offer loan sizes of $5,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 20 years. Within in-school loans, we generally offer loan sizes of $1,000 or higher, subject to legal and/or licensing requirements, with terms generally ranging from 5 to 15 years. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our fixed and variable-rate student loans. Home Loans. We offer agency, non-agency and, beginning in the second quarter of 2023, certain government loans (e.g., VA and Federal Housing Administration loans) for members purchasing a home or refinancing an existing mortgage. For our home loan products, we offer competitive rates, flexible down payment options for as little as 3% (or 0% for VA loans), a close on time guarantee, and educational tools and calculators. We generally offer loan sizes of $75,000 to $726,200 for one-unit properties in conforming normal cost areas (with exceptions for smaller loan sizes considered on a case-by-case basis), up to $1,089,300 for conforming high cost areas (GSE-eligible loans above the normal conforming limit, which is determined by county), up to $2,500,000 for jumbo loans (loans in the jumbo loan program), up to $1,500,000 for VA loans, and up to $472,030 for Federal Housing Administration loans. Our fixed rate home loans generally have terms of 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years. We offer adjustable rate mortgage products for conforming and jumbo loans, with a fixed rate for 5, 7 or 10 years followed by rate adjustments every six months for the remainder of the 30-year term, and for VA loans, with a fixed rate for 5 years followed by rate adjustments every year for the remainder of the 30-year term. We regularly update the annual percentage rates offered on our home loans. Lending Model Although our lending business remains primarily a gain-on-sale model, whereby we seek to originate loans, recognize a gain from these loans and sell them into either our whole loan or securitization channels, operating SoFi Bank has also provided us with more flexibility to hold loans on our balance sheet for longer periods, thereby enabling us to maximize our return and balance our risk by earning interest on these loans for a longer period and to be selective in our sales arrangements. We sell our whole loans primarily to large financial institutions, such as bank holding companies. In securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale accounting, the related assets remain on our balance sheet and cash proceeds received are reported as liabilities, with related interest expense recognized over the life of the related borrowing. In securitization transactions that qualify for sale accounting, we typically have insignificant continuing involvement as an investor. In the case of both whole loan sales and securitizations, and with the exception of certain of our home loans, we also continue to retain servicing rights to our originated loans following transfer. We view servicing as an integral component of the Lending segment, as we believe our servicing function is an important asset because of the connection to the member it affords us throughout the life of the loan. We directly service all of the personal loans that we originate. We act as master servicer for, and rely on sub-servicers to directly service, all of our student loans and GSE conforming home loans. We believe this ongoing relationship with our members enhances the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop by increasing member touchpoints and driving new product adoption by existing members. We rely upon deposits, warehouse financing and our own capital to enable us to continue to expand our origination capabilities. Our ability to utilize deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans has lowered our overall cost of asset-backed financing relative to alternative sources of funding. 51 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Underwriting Process We have developed an extensive underwriting process across each lending product that is focused on willingness to pay (measured by credit attributes), ability to pay (measured through income verification), and stability (measured by debt service in relation to other loans). A key element of our underwriting process is the ability to facilitate risk-based interest rates that we believe are appropriate for each loan using proprietary risk models through which we project quarterly loan performance, including expected losses and prepayments. We believe the outcome of this process helps us determine a more data-driven, risk-adjusted interest rate that we can offer our members. Our personal loan and student loan underwriting models are typically based on credit reports, industry credit and bankruptcy prediction models, custom credit assessment models, and debt capacity analysis, as indicated by borrower free cash flow. Our underwriting strategy utilizes an advanced risk model that provides refined risk separation. Home loans originated by SoFi that are agency-conforming loans are subject to credit, debt service, and collateral eligibility established by GSEs. Government loans are subject to the underwriting requirements established by the appropriate government agency. In addition to these requirements, the loans are subject to individual investor requirements. Other non-agency loans originated by us, such as Jumbo loans, are subject to investor credit criteria, which typically includes a minimum tri-bureau credit score, established credit history requirements, income verification, as well as maximum limits on debt-to-income service and caps on loan-to-value based on an accredited appraisal. We also leverage our data to provide existing members a streamlined application process through automation. Across our loan products, existing members generally experience a higher approval rate than new members, subject to the existing member being in good standing on their existing products. Technology Platform Segment Our Technology Platform segment consists of Galileo and Technisys. Through Galileo, we provide technology platform services through a suite of program, event and authorization application programming interfaces for financial and non-financial institutions. Technisys is a cloud-native digital and core banking platform with financial services customers predominantly in Latin America. Through Technisys, we earn technology product and solutions revenue through sales of software licenses and the provision of maintenance and support services related to those software licenses. We also provide additional technology solutions for our clients as their business needs evolve over time, which we refer to as evolution labs. We earn technology products and solutions fees for providing an integrated platform as a service for financial and non-financial institutions. Many technology platform segment contracts are multi-year contracts. In certain of our contracts, we provide for a variety of integrated platform services, which vary by client and are either non-cancellable or cancellable with a substantive payment. Pricing structures under these contracts are typically volume-based, or a combination of activity and volume-based, and payment terms are predominantly monthly in arrears. Many of these contracts contain minimum monthly payments, which may result in credits if we do not meet the agreed upon monthly service levels. We also earn subscription and service fees for providing software licenses and associated services, including implementation, maintenance and subsequent development work. We charge a recurring subscription fee for the software license and related maintenance services. Other software-related services are billed on a periodic basis as the services are provided. Certain arrangements for software and related services contain a provision for a fixed upfront payment. Financial Services Segment Our suite of financial services products, by nature, provides more daily interactions with our members and is, therefore, differentiated from our lending products, which inherently have less consistent touchpoints with our members. We offer a suite of financial services solutions, the most significant of which are discussed below. SoFi Money: Checking and savings accounts provide a digital banking experience. Following the Bank Merger, we began to allow members to convert their cash management accounts into checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank. SoFi Invest: A mobile-first investment platform offering members access to trading and advisory solutions, such as active investing, robo-advisory and digital assets accounts. Our interactive investing experience fosters engagement by allowing members to view and monitor other investors activity on the platform. SoFi Credit Card: Designed to help our members save, invest and pay down debt through a variable rewards program, with higher rewards offerings when redeeming into other SoFi products. Our credit card product features no annual fee and up to 3% cash back rewards with direct deposit setup through SoFi Bank. Loan referrals: A service through which we present loan referral leads to our affiliate partners. SoFi Relay: A personal finance management product that allows members to track all of their financial accounts in one place and gain meaningful insights into their financial health and habits, such as credit score monitoring and spending 52 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS behaviors. SoFi Relay also provides us with unified intelligence about our members that offers information about what SoFi products and features may help our members best achieve their financial goals, allowing us to further personalize the SoFi experience for our members. SoFi At Work: A service through which we partner with other enterprises looking for a seamless way to provide financial benefits to their employees, such as student loan payments made on their employees behalf and matching employer retirement contributions to employee student loan repayments. Lantern Credit: A financial services marketplace platform developed to help applicants that do not qualify for SoFi products seek alternative products from other providers, as well as to provide a product comparison experience. We believe that the content and features we provide within our mobile application can spur more financial education, which leads to more ways for our members to actively engage in getting their money right and can ultimately demonstrate the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We earn revenues in connection with our Financial Services segment primarily in the following ways: Net interest income: Net interest income is a key component of the profitability of our Financial Services segment as it relates primarily to our SoFi Money and credit card products. Net interest income on SoFi Money is based on interest income determined using our FTP framework, net of interest expense based on the interest rate offered to our members on their deposits. Net interest income on credit card is based on the contractual interest included in credit card agreements, net of interest expense as determined using the FTP framework. See Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the FTP framework. Referral fees: Through strategic partnerships, we earn a specified referral fee in connection with referral activity we facilitate through our platform. Referral fees are paid to us by third-party partners that offer services to end users who do not use one of our product offerings, but who were referred to the partners through our platform. We also earn referral fulfillment fees for providing pre-qualified borrower referrals to a third-party partner who separately contracts with a loan originator. Our referral fee is calculated as either a fixed price per successful referral or a percentage of the transaction volume between the enterprise partners and referred consumers. Interchange fees: We earn interchange fees from our SoFi-branded debit cards and credit cards, which are reduced by fees payable to card associations and other third parties. These fees are remitted by merchants and represent a percentage of the underlying transaction value processed through a payment network. We arrange for performance by a card association and bank issuer to enable certain aspects of the SoFi-branded transaction card process. We enter into contracts that establish the shared economics of SoFi-branded transaction cards. Brokerage fees: We earn brokerage fees primarily from our share lending and payment for order flow arrangements related to our SoFi Invest product and digital assets activity. In our share lending arrangements and payment for order flow arrangements, we benefit through a negotiated multi-year revenue sharing arrangement, since our members' brokerage activity drives the share lending and payment for order flow volume. In our digital assets arrangements, our fee is calculated as a negotiated percentage of the transaction volume. Business Highlights We achieved strong results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, including record total net revenue of $498.0 million and $970.2 million, respectively, representing increases of 37% and 40% over total net revenue in the same periods of 2022, respectively. We realized strong momentum in member and product growth and cross-buy adds, reflecting the benefits of our broad product suite and Financial Services Productivity Loop strategy. We added approximately 1.9 million new members from the end of the second quarter of 2022, with 6.2 million total members as of June 30, 2023, a 44% year-over-year increase. We also added 2.8 million new products over this time period, with 9.4 million total products as of June 30, 2023, a 43% year-over-year increase. Lending segment contribution profit of $183.3 million and $393.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, at a margin of 55% and 59%, respectively, increased 29% and 43% over the respective 2022 periods, which had a contribution margin of 55% and 54%, respectively. Additionally, average net interest margin of 5.74% and 5.69% in the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, increased 51 and 84 basis points, respectively, compared to 5.23% and 4.85% in the respective 2022 periods. Growth in net interest income was driven by an increase in both average interest-earning assets and average yields, slightly offset by an increase in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Year-over-year origination volume increased 37% and 22% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, primarily driven by demand for 53 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS personal loans and despite continued macroeconomic headwinds in the student and home loan businesses. Our acquisition of Wyndham in the second quarter of 2023 provided increased capacity and capabilities for our home loans product, which contributed to a notable year-over-year increase in the second quarter, and which we expect to continue to provide benefits during the remainder of the year. Technology Platform segment total net revenue increased 4% and 14% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the respective 2022 periods, while contribution profit of $17.2 million and $32.0 million decreased 21% and 20%, respectively. The comparisons were impacted by the previously announced migration by a large Galileo client of the majority of its processing volumes to a pure processor in the fourth quarter of 2022. The year-to-date comparison was also impacted by a partial period of contribution from Technisys in 2022 compared to a full period of contribution in 2023. We have begun to shift our strategy to target larger potential clients with larger existing businesses, business-to-business clients and a more durable client base, which is expected to have a longer sales cycle. Within Financial Services, contribution loss of $4.3 million and $28.6 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, significantly improved compared to $53.7 million and $103.2 million in the respective 2022 periods, and total net revenue of $98.1 million and $179.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, increased 223% and 232% over the respective 2022 periods. We achieved continued strong growth in deposits, ending the period with $12.7 billion of deposits, allowing us to maintain diversified sources of funding and driving an increase in net interest income earned on our deposits. In addition, we grew total Financial Services products by 47% year over year. We began to realize scale in our marketing spend and operating leverage in the segment. We expect to continue to scale our products through increased brand awareness and network effects and to be contribution profit positive in the segment by the end of 2023. The strength of our results underscores our belief that our suite of differentiated products and services provides the foundation for a diversified business that can endure through market cycles as well as exogenous factors. For instance, our deposit funding increases our flexibility to capture additional net interest margin and optimize returns, which typically provides more stable earnings in any macroeconomic environment, but is particularly important during times of excess macroeconomic volatility. During 2023, we continued to have strong deposit contribution from direct deposit members with a high quality median FICO score. We also provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks, further enhancing our benefits offering to our members. Our Tier 1 capital ratio, as calculated under applicable regulatory capital rules, was 15.6% as of June 30, 2023. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management and Board of Directors use adjusted net revenue and adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating performance, formulate business plans, help better assess our overall liquidity position, and make strategic decisions, including those relating to operating expenses and the allocation of internal resources. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted net revenue and adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. Adjusted Net Revenue Adjusted net revenue is defined as total net revenue, adjusted to exclude the fair value changes in servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation inputs and assumptions changes, which relate only to our Lending segment. We adjust total net revenue to exclude these items, as they are non-cash charges that are not realized during the period, and therefore positive or negative changes do not impact the cash available to fund our operations. This measure helps provide our management with an understanding of the net revenue available to finance our operations and helps management better decide on the proper expenses to authorize for each of our operating segments, to ultimately help achieve target contribution profit margins. Therefore, the measure of adjusted net revenue serves as both the starting point for how we think about the liquidity generated from our operations and also the starting point for our annual financial planning, the latter of which focuses on the cash we expect to generate from our operating segments to help fund the current years strategic objectives. Adjusted net revenue has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as total net revenue. The primary limitation of adjusted net revenue is its lack of comparability to other companies that do not utilize this measure or that use a similar measure that is defined in a different manner. 54 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Total Net Revenue and Adjusted Net Revenue In Thousands The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Total net revenue $ 498,018 $ 362,527 $ 970,176 $ 692,871 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (8,601) (9,098) (20,685) (20,678) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) (602) 2,662 (513) 5,625 Adjusted net revenue $ 488,815 $ 356,091 $ 948,978 $ 677,818 ___________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on servicing rights, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. These assumptions are highly sensitive to market interest rate changes and are not indicative of our performance or results of operations. Moreover, these non-cash charges are unrealized during the period and, therefore, have no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations and our overall performance. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions on residual interests classified as debt, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated securitization VIEs by purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the closing of the securitization and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These residual debt obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, but they have no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of total net revenue to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the net revenue available to finance our operations. The following table reconciles adjusted net revenue to total net revenue, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 September 30, 2022 June 30, 2022 Total net revenue $ 498,018 $ 472,158 $ 456,679 $ 423,985 $ 362,527 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (8,601) (12,084) (12,791) (6,182) (9,098) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) (602) 89 (470) 1,453 2,662 Adjusted net revenue $ 488,815 $ 460,163 $ 443,418 $ 419,256 $ 356,091 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. 55 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The reconciling items to determine our non-GAAP measure of adjusted net revenue are applicable only to the Lending segment. The table below presents adjusted net revenue for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Total net revenue Lending $ 331,441 $ 257,117 $ 668,522 $ 510,106 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (8,601) (9,098) (20,685) (20,678) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) (602) 2,662 (513) 5,625 Adjusted net revenue Lending $ 322,238 $ 250,681 $ 647,324 $ 495,053 ___________________ (1)See footnote (1) to the table above. (2)See footnote (2) to the table above. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude, as applicable: (i) corporate borrowing-based interest expense (our adjusted EBITDA measure is not adjusted for warehouse or securitization-based interest expense, nor deposit interest expense and finance lease liability interest expense, as these are not direct operating expenses), (ii) income tax expense (benefit), (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) share-based expense (inclusive of equity-based payments to non-employees), (v) impairment expense (inclusive of goodwill impairment and property, equipment and software abandonments), (vi) transaction-related expenses, (vii) fair value changes in warrant liabilities, (viii) fair value changes in each of servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt due to valuation assumptions, and (ix) other charges, as appropriate, that are not expected to recur and are not indicative of our core operating performance. We believe adjusted EBITDA provides a useful measure for period-over-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effects of certain non-cash items and certain charges that are not indicative of our core operating performance or results of operations. It is also a measure that management relies upon to evaluate cash flows generated from operations, and therefore the extent of additional capital, if any, required to invest in strategic initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net income (loss). Some of the limitations of adjusted EBITDA include that it does not reflect the impact of working capital requirements or capital expenditures and it is not a universally consistent calculation among companies in our industry, which limits its usefulness as a comparative measure. Net Loss and Adjusted EBITDA In Thousands 56 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net loss $ (47,549) $ (95,835) $ (81,971) $ (206,192) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings(1) 9,167 3,450 17,167 6,099 Income tax (benefit) expense(2) (1,780) 119 (3,417) 871 Depreciation and amortization(3) 50,130 38,056 95,451 68,754 Share-based expense 75,878 80,142 140,104 157,163 Restructuring charges(4) 4,953 Impairment expense(5) 1,243 Transaction-related expense(6) 176 808 176 17,346 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(7) (8,601) (9,098) (20,685) (20,678) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(8) (602) 2,662 (513) 5,625 Total adjustments 124,368 116,139 234,479 235,180 Adjusted EBITDA $ 76,819 $ 20,304 $ 152,508 $ 28,988 ___________________ (1)Our adjusted EBITDA measure adjusts for corporate borrowing-based interest expense, as these expenses are a function of our capital structure. Corporate borrowing-based interest expense includes interest on our revolving credit facility and the amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs on our convertible notes. Revolving credit facility interest expense in the 2023 periods increased due to higher interest rates relative to the prior year periods on identical outstanding debt. (2)Income taxes were primarily attributable to tax expense associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required. For the three and six month 2023 periods, this expense was more than offset by income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. See Note 14. Income Taxes to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)Depreciation and amortization expense for the 2023 periods increased compared to the 2022 periods primarily in connection with acquisitions and growth in our internally-developed software balance. (4)Restructuring charges in the six-month 2023 period primarily included employee-related wages, benefits and severance associated with a small reduction in headcount in our Technology Platform segment in the first quarter of 2023, which do not reflect expected future operating expenses and are not indicative of our core operating performance. (5)Impairment expense in the six-month 2023 period relates to a sublease arrangement, which is not indicative of our core operating performance. (6)Transaction-related expenses in the 2023 and 2022 periods included financial advisory and professional services costs associated with our acquisitions of Wyndham and Technisys, respectively. (7)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including market servicing costs, conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. This non-cash change is unrealized during the period and, therefore, has no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, these positive and negative changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net loss to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. (8)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated VIEs through purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the securitization close and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, which has no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, these positive and negative non-cash changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted out of net loss to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the earnings available to finance our operations. 57 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for the quarterly periods presented: Quarter Ended ($ in thousands) June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 September 30, 2022 June 30, 2022 Net loss $ (47,549) $ (34,422) $ (40,006) $ (74,209) $ (95,835) Non-GAAP adjustments: Interest expense corporate borrowings 9,167 8,000 7,069 5,270 3,450 Income tax (benefit) expense (1,780) (1,637) 1,057 (242) 119 Depreciation and amortization 50,130 45,321 42,353 40,253 38,056 Share-based expense 75,878 64,226 70,976 77,855 80,142 Restructuring charges 4,953 Impairment expense 1,243 Transaction-related expense 176 1,872 100 808 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions (8,601) (12,084) (12,791) (6,182) (9,098) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions (602) 89 (470) 1,453 2,662 Total adjustments 124,368 110,111 110,066 118,507 116,139 Adjusted EBITDA $ 76,819 $ 75,689 $ 70,060 $ 44,298 $ 20,304 Key Business Metrics The table below presents the key business metrics that management uses to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions: June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 % Change Members 6,240,091 4,318,705 44 % Total Products 9,401,025 6,564,174 43 % Total Products Lending segment 1,503,892 1,202,027 25 % Total Products Financial Services segment 7,897,133 5,362,147 47 % Total Accounts Technology Platform segment 129,356,203 116,570,038 11 % See Summary Results by Segment for additional metrics we review at the segment level. Members We refer to our customers as members. We define a member as someone who has a lending relationship with us through origination and/or ongoing servicing, opened a financial services account, linked an external account to our platform, or signed up for our credit score monitoring service. Our members have continuous access to our certified financial planners (CFPs), our career advice services, our member events, our content, educational material, news, and our tools and calculators, which are provided at no cost to the member. Additionally, our mobile app and website have a member home feed that is personalized and delivers content to a member about what they must do that day in their financial life, what they should consider doing that day in their financial life, and what they can do that day in their financial life. Once someone becomes a member, they are always considered a member unless they violate our terms of service. We adjust our total number of members in the event a member is removed in accordance with our terms of service. This could occur for a variety of reasonsincluding fraud or pursuant to certain legal processesand, as our terms of service evolve together with our business practices, product offerings and applicable regulations, our grounds for removing members from our total member count could change. The determination that a member should be removed in accordance with our terms of service is subject to an evaluation process, following the completion, and based on the results, of which, relevant members and their associated products are removed from our total member count in the period in which such evaluation process concludes. However, depending on the length of the evaluation process, that removal may not take place in the same period in which the member was added to our member count or the same period in which the circumstances leading to their removal occurred. For this reason, our total member count may not yet reflect adjustments that may be made once ongoing evaluation processes, if any, conclude. 58 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS We view members as an indication not only of the size and a measurement of growth of our business, but also as a measure of the significant value of the data we have collected over time. The data we collect from our members helps us to, among other things: (i) assess loan life performance data on each loan in our ecosystem, which can inform risk-based interest rates that we can offer our members, (ii) understand our members spending behavior to identify and suggest other products we offer that may align with the members financial needs, and (iii) enhance our opportunities to sell additional products to our members, as our members represent a vital source of marketing opportunities. When we provide additional products to members, it helps improve our unit economics per member, as we save on marketing costs that we would otherwise incur to attract new members. It also increases the lifetime value of an individual member. This in turn enhances our Financial Services Productivity Loop. Member growth is generally an indicator of future revenue, but is not directly correlated with revenues, since not all members who sign up for one of our products fully utilize or continue to use our products, and not all of our products (such as our complimentary product, SoFi Relay) provide direct sources of revenue. Since our inception through June 30, 2023, we have served approximately 6.2 million members who have used approximately 9.4 million products on the SoFi platform. Members In Thousands Total Products Total products refers to the aggregate number of lending and financial services products that our members have selected on our platform since our inception through the reporting date, whether or not the members are still registered for such products. Total products is a primary indicator of the size and reach of our Lending and Financial Services segments. Management relies on total products metrics to understand the effectiveness of our member acquisition efforts and to gauge the propensity for members to use more than one product. In our Lending segment, total products refers to the number of personal loans, student loans and home loans that have been originated through our platform through the reporting date, whether or not such loans have been paid off. If a member has multiple loan products of the same loan product type, such as two personal loans, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple loan products across loan product types, such as one personal loan and one home loan, that is counted as two products. In our Financial Services segment, total products refers to the number of SoFi Money accounts (inclusive of checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank and cash management accounts), SoFi Invest accounts, SoFi Credit Card accounts (including accounts with a zero dollar balance at the reporting date), referred loans (which are originated by a third-party partner to which we provide pre-qualified borrower referrals), SoFi At Work accounts and SoFi Relay accounts (with either credit score monitoring enabled or external linked accounts) that have been opened through our platform through the reporting date. Checking and savings accounts are considered one account within our total products metric. Our SoFi Invest service is composed of three products: active investing accounts, robo-advisory accounts and digital assets accounts. Our members can select any one or combination of the three types of SoFi Invest products. If a member has multiple SoFi Invest products of the same account type, such as two active investing accounts, that is counted as a single product. However, if a member has multiple SoFi Invest products across account types, such as one active investing account and one robo-advisory account, those separate account types are considered separate products. In the event a member is removed in accordance with our terms of service, as discussed under Members above, the members associated products are also removed. 59 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Products In Thousands Total lending products were composed of the following: Lending Products June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Variance % Change Personal loans 985,396 714,735 270,661 38 % Student loans 491,499 462,164 29,335 6 % Home loans 26,997 25,128 1,869 7 % Total lending products 1,503,892 1,202,027 301,865 25 % Total financial services products were composed of the following: Financial Services Products June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Variance % Change Money(1) 2,693,148 1,837,138 856,010 47 % Invest 2,315,777 1,961,425 354,352 18 % Credit Card 213,395 139,781 73,614 53 % Referred loans(2) 47,439 28,037 19,402 69 % Relay 2,553,158 1,344,538 1,208,620 90 % At Work 74,216 51,228 22,988 45 % Total financial services products 7,897,133 5,362,147 2,534,986 47 % ___________________ (1)Includes checking and savings accounts held at SoFi Bank, and cash management accounts. (2)Limited to loans wherein we provide third party fulfillment services. Technology Platform Total Accounts In our Technology Platform segment, total accounts refers to the number of open accounts at Galileo as of the reporting date. We include intercompany accounts on the Galileo platform-as-a-service in our total accounts metric to better align with the Technology Platform segment revenue reported in Note 17. Business Segment Information to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes intercompany revenue. Intercompany revenue is eliminated in consolidation. Total accounts is a primary indicator of the accounts dependent upon our technology platform to use virtual card products, virtual wallets, make peer-to-peer and bank-to-bank transfers, receive early paychecks, separate savings from spending balances, make debit transactions and rely upon real-time authorizations, all of which result in revenues for the Technology Platform segment. We do not measure total accounts for the Technisys products and solutions, as the revenue model is not primarily dependent upon being a fully integrated, stand-ready service. 60 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology Platform Accounts(1)(2) In Millions ___________________ (1)We include SoFi accounts on the Galileo platform-as-a-service in Technology Platform total accounts to better align with the presentation of Technology Platform segment total net revenue. (2)In 2023, Technology Platform total accounts reflects the previously disclosed migration by one of our clients of the majority of its processing volumes to a pure processor. These accounts remained open for administrative purposes through the end of 2022, and were included in our total accounts in such period. June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Variance % Change Total accounts 129,356,203 116,570,038 12,786,165 11 % Key Factors Affecting Operating Results Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges and other factors, including our loan origination volume, financial services products and member activity on our platform, growth in technology platform clients, competition and industry trends, general economic conditions and our ability to optimize our national bank charter. The key factors affecting our operating results are discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, with notable updates provided herein. Industry Trends and General Economic Conditions The Federal Reserve increased the benchmark interest rate throughout 2022 and has continued to do so to date in 2023, largely in response to high inflation, low unemployment and strong consumer demand, while balancing macroeconomic risks, such as increased market volatility. We have continued to see strong demand for our deposits as a result of our competitive interest rate offering and expanded access to FDIC insurance coverage, and in spite of recent volatility in the banking and financial services sectors. However, rising interest rates have unfavorably impacted, and could continue to unfavorably impact, demand for refinancing loan products. Economic and market volatility may continue to occur and could worsen, including if there is additional turmoil in the banking and financial services sectors, which could adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. These market developments have negatively impacted customer confidence in the safety and soundness of certain banks. As a result, although we have not observed a decline in our overall deposits to date, our members may choose to maintain deposits with other financial institutions or spread their deposit funds among multiple financial institutions. In addition, if the Federal Reserve does not effectively curb inflation or interest rates rise unexpectedly or too quickly or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate or do not improve, it could have a negative impact on the overall economy and result in increased unemployment, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In 2023, we saw a continuation from 2022 of elevated credit spreads across capital markets and changes in consumer credit. Our increased personal loan annualized charge-off rate year over year was reflective of our expectation of credit metrics to revert over time to more normalized levels, but remains healthy, while our higher credit card annualized charge-off rate was reflective of our maturing portfolio. Negative changes to macroeconomic conditions may result in decreased demand for our products, increased operating costs and negatively impact our results of operations. 61 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Fair Value of Loans We measure our personal loans, student loans and home loans at fair value, which are level 3 measurements due to the use of unobservable inputs. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of inputs that market participants would use in pricing our loans. Our fair value adjustments on loans impact our consolidated results of operations and include adjustments related to loans originated during the period, loans held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold or repurchased during the period. Fair value adjustments made in each reporting period are impacted by factors such as, among others, interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads, actual and estimated losses, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. In determining our fair value assumptions, we incorporate recent data impacting the capital markets, as well as factors specific to us. Changes in these factors, either positive or negative, can have a material impact on our results of operations. The following table summarizes the significant inputs to the fair value model for personal and student loans: Personal Loans Student Loans June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 June 30, 2023 March 31, 2023 Weighted average coupon rate(1) 13.6 % 13.2 % 5.0 % 4.9 % Weighted average annual default rate 4.6 4.6 0.5 0.4 Weighted average conditional prepayment rate 19.0 19.1 10.6 10.4 Weighted average discount rate 6.1 5.5 4.4 4.1 ___________________ (1)Represents the average coupon rate on loans held on balance sheet, weighted by unpaid principal balance outstanding at the balance sheet date. As of the second quarter of 2023 relative to the first quarter of 2023, we observed the following trends: The weighted average coupon rates on personal loans and student loans increased by 41 bps and 11 bps, respectively, which reflects rate increases passed on to borrowers as benchmark interest rates have increased, combined with higher personal loan originations. The two and five year swap rates increased by 70 bps and 53 bps, respectively, as well as the applicable benchmark rate forward curve. For personal loans and student loans, our discount rate assumptions increased in the second quarter primarily due to the impacts of the increased benchmark rates, which were partially offset by narrower spreads indicated by asset-backed security and secondary bond markets. Annualized net charge-off rates on personal loans and student loans in the second quarter of 2023 were 2.94% and 0.42%, respectively, which remained lower than the assumed weighted average default rates in our fair value model of 4.6% and 0.5%, respectively. Our fair value assumption for annual default rate incorporates fair value markdowns on loans beginning when they are 10 days or more delinquent, with additional markdowns at 30 days, 60 days and 90 days past due. For instance, personal loans are marked down on average 70% when the loans are 30 days past due. We expect lower student loan prepayment speeds experienced in recent quarters to continue, which is reflected in our fair value assumption. The combination of these and other factors, including higher in period originations, resulted in fair value gains recognized on our personal loans portfolio and fair value losses recognized on our student loans portfolio during the second quarter of 2023. Student Loan Relief In June 2023, Congress passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023 which, among other things, ends the suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans pursuant to the CARES Act passed in 2020, effective 60 days after June 30, 2023, as well as prohibits the Secretary of Education from implementing any extension of any executive action or rule pursuant thereto. We subsequently dismissed without prejudice our lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Education, which we filed in the first quarter of 2023. Additionally, in 2022 President Biden announced relief measures for federal student loan borrowers, subject to income caps, including up to $20,000 in debt cancellation for Pell Grant recipients, and up to $10,000 in debt cancellation for non-Pell Grant recipients, as well as certain changes to income-driven repayment plans (the Biden Forgiveness Program). Although the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently struck down the Biden Forgiveness Program, President Biden indicated between October 1, 2023 and September 30, 2024, he would allow federal loan borrowers to not be considered delinquent if they miss a payment and that the U.S. Department of Education will not refer borrowers who fail to 62 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS pay their student loan bills to credit agencies. In addition, on July 14, 2023, President Biden announced that $39 billion in federal student loan debt would be eliminated to remedy mistakes of loan servicers, and other student loan holders will have their loans adjusted. While we expect we may see an increase in student loan refinancing volume following the expected end of the federal student loan payment moratorium after August 30, 2023, as borrowers may look to refinance at a lower rate or, given the high interest rate environment, may look to extend the loan term, the timing and impact to our student loan refinancing product will largely depend on expectations regarding the introduction or implementation of additional relief measures, the interest rate environment, how competitive our student loan refinancing products are compared to our competitors and macroeconomic factors, including any further delay to entry into repayment by student loan borrowers that may result from federal student loan servicers being slow to restart servicing and from funding issues experienced by the U.S. Department of Education. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of income data: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 291,126 $ 122,729 $ 168,397 137 % $ 527,136 $ 217,662 $ 309,474 142 % Total noninterest income 206,892 239,798 (32,906) (14) 443,040 475,209 (32,169) (7) Total net revenue 498,018 362,527 135,491 37 970,176 692,871 277,305 40 Total noninterest expense 547,347 458,243 89,104 19 1,055,564 898,192 157,372 18 Loss before income taxes (49,329) (95,716) 46,387 (48) (85,388) (205,321) 119,933 (58) Income tax benefit (expense) 1,780 (119) 1,899 n/m 3,417 (871) 4,288 n/m Net loss $ (47,549) $ (95,835) $ 48,286 (50) % $ (81,971) $ (206,192) $ 124,221 (60) % 63 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Net Interest Income The tables below present average balance and interest information for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, along with net interest income and net interest margin. Average Balances and Net Interest Earnings Analysis Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 2,158,973 $ 24,127 4.48 % $ 1,064,672 $ 943 0.35 % Investment securities 387,453 3,682 3.81 505,840 3,004 2.38 Loans(2) 17,810,656 442,187 9.96 7,804,416 145,337 7.45 Total interest-earning assets 20,357,082 469,996 9.26 9,374,928 149,284 6.37 Total noninterest-earning assets 2,862,005 3,011,591 Total assets $ 23,219,087 $ 12,386,519 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 2,071,639 $ 12,922 2.50 % $ 1,137,097 $ 2,654 0.93 % Savings deposits 7,292,617 73,114 4.02 673,561 1,863 1.11 Time deposits 1,708,576 20,493 4.81 17,660 26 0.59 Total interest-bearing deposits 11,072,832 106,529 3.86 1,828,318 4,543 0.99 Warehouse facilities 3,204,559 48,080 6.02 2,093,373 9,717 1.86 Securitization debt 908,381 10,770 4.76 547,049 5,204 3.81 Other debt(3) 1,642,953 13,491 3.29 1,643,944 6,091 1.48 Total debt 5,755,893 72,341 5.04 4,284,366 21,012 1.96 Residual interests classified as debt 13,015 61,388 1,037 6.76 Total interest-bearing liabilities 16,841,740 178,870 4.26 6,174,072 26,592 1.72 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 786,175 682,474 Total liabilities 17,627,915 6,856,546 Total temporary equity 320,374 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,270,798 5,209,599 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 23,219,087 $ 12,386,519 Net interest income(4) $ 291,126 $ 122,692 Net interest margin(5) 5.74 % 5.23 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 period and on four-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 period, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Interest income on loans measured at amortized cost for the 2022 period includes amortization of deferred loan fees, net of deferred loan costs, which were not material. (3)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility. (4)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (5)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. 64 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Average Balances(1) Interest Income/Expense Average Yield/Rate Assets Interest-earning assets: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 1,784,179 $ 32,609 3.69 % $ 1,070,345 $ 1,401 0.26 % Investment securities 475,190 9,421 4.00 525,637 6,010 2.29 Loans(2) 16,432,315 799,529 9.81 7,383,365 259,722 7.04 Total interest-earning assets 18,691,684 841,559 9.08 8,979,347 267,133 5.95 Total noninterest-earning assets 2,992,932 2,565,560 Total assets $ 21,684,616 $ 11,544,907 Liabilities, Temporary Equity and Permanent Equity Interest-bearing liabilities: Demand deposits $ 1,971,672 $ 25,774 2.64 % $ 723,935 $ 2,927 0.81 % Savings deposits 6,388,356 121,274 3.83 410,332 2,016 0.98 Time deposits 1,425,530 32,597 4.61 12,098 31 0.51 Total interest-bearing deposits 9,785,558 179,645 3.70 1,146,365 4,974 0.87 Warehouse facilities 3,028,270 88,256 5.88 2,318,839 19,620 1.69 Securitization debt 879,521 21,196 4.86 586,075 10,737 3.66 Other debt(3) 1,644,173 25,185 3.09 1,642,938 11,682 1.42 Total debt 5,551,964 134,637 4.89 4,547,852 42,039 1.85 Residual interests classified as debt 14,529 141 1.96 72,238 2,565 7.10 Total interest-bearing liabilities 15,352,051 314,423 4.13 5,766,455 49,578 1.72 Total noninterest-bearing liabilities 745,701 602,256 Total liabilities 16,097,752 6,368,711 Total temporary equity 320,374 320,374 Total permanent equity 5,266,490 4,855,822 Total liabilities, temporary equity and permanent equity $ 21,684,616 $ 11,544,907 Net interest income(4) $ 527,136 $ 217,555 Net interest margin(5) 5.69 % 4.85 %__________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 period and on seven-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 period, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Interest income on loans measured at amortized cost for the 2022 period includes amortization of deferred loan fees, net of deferred loan costs, which were not material. (3)Interest expense on other debt primarily includes debt issuance and discount expense, as well as interest expense on the revolving credit facility. (4)Net interest income is calculated as the excess of total interest income on interest-earning assets over total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. (5)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by total average interest-earning assets. For the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, net interest income increased by $168.4 million, or 137%, and net interest margin increased by 51 basis points. For the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, net interest income increased by $309.5 million, or 142%, and net interest margin increased by 84 basis points. The increases were primarily driven by higher interest income from (i) personal loans, which was primarily a function of increases in the average balance and origination volume, as well as longer loan holding periods for both personal and student loans, and (ii) interest-bearing deposits with banks, which reflected our strong liquidity position in a rising interest rate environment. Average interest-earning assets increased by 117% and 108% during the three and six-month periods, respectively, and average yields increased by 289 and 313 basis points, respectively. These increases were partially offset by higher interest expense on deposits attributable to a higher average balance and higher interest rates offered to our members, and higher interest expense on warehouse facilities attributable to a higher average balance and higher interest rates incurred on our facilities, all of which are reflective of the higher interest rate environment year over year. 65 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income The following table presents period-over-period changes in net interest income and the extent to which the variances are attributable to changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities or changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs. 2022 2023 vs. 2022 Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): Increase (Decrease) Due to Change in(1): ($ in thousands) Volume Rate Total Variance Volume Rate Total Variance Interest income: Interest-bearing deposits with banks $ 12,226 $ 10,969 $ 23,195 $ 13,034 $ 18,182 $ 31,216 Investment securities (1,133) 1,811 678 (1,050) 4,461 3,411 Loans 248,027 48,822 296,849 438,150 101,657 539,807 Total interest income 259,120 61,602 320,722 450,134 124,300 574,434 Interest expense: Interest-bearing deposits 88,927 13,059 101,986 158,559 16,112 174,671 Debt 18,437 32,892 51,329 24,005 68,593 92,598 Residual interests classified as debt (3) (1,034) (1,037) (581) (1,843) (2,424) Total interest expense 107,361 44,917 152,278 181,983 82,862 264,845 Net interest income $ 151,759 $ 16,685 $ 168,444 $ 268,151 $ 41,438 $ 309,589 ___________________ (1)We calculate the changes in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. Volume and rate changes have been allocated on a consistent basis using the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates. Noninterest Income and Net Revenue The following table presents the components of our total noninterest income, as well as total net revenue: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Loan origination and sales $ 103,064 $ 144,414 $ (41,350) (29) % $ 229,575 $ 302,118 $ (72,543) (24) % Securitizations (12,900) (11,737) (1,163) 10 (16,077) (23,018) 6,941 (30) Servicing 9,052 10,471 (1,419) (14) 21,794 22,707 (913) (4) Technology products and solutions 82,289 81,670 619 1 155,090 141,527 13,563 10 Other 25,387 14,980 10,407 69 52,658 31,875 20,783 65 Total noninterest income $ 206,892 $ 239,798 $ (32,906) (14) $ 443,040 $ 475,209 $ (32,169) (7) Total net revenue $ 498,018 $ 362,527 $ 135,491 37 % $ 970,176 $ 692,871 $ 277,305 40 % Three Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $32.9 million, or 14%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, which was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2023 period, (ii) the net effect of lower income related to in-period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments on loans, which were primarily impacted by higher benchmark rates, higher personal loan origination volume and longer loan holding periods, partially offset by higher gains on loan hedging activities due to higher interest rates during the 2023 period and higher notional amounts, and (iii) increased interchange revenue. Six Months. Total noninterest income decreased by $32.2 million, or 7%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, which was primarily attributable to: (i) higher loan write-offs in the 2023 period, (ii) the net effect of lower gains on loan hedging activities due to smaller increases in interest rates during the 2023 period, partially offset by higher income related to in period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments on loans, which were primarily impacted by higher personal loan origination volume and lower student loan prepayment assumptions, (iii) growth in technology products and solutions fees largely driven by revenue contribution from Technisys for the full period in 2023, (iv) improved securitizations income driven by a positive variance in our securitization bond fair values, 66 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS and an increase in securitization loan fair market values primarily associated with a consolidated securitization transaction in the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by lower gains in the 2023 period on risk retention hedge activities, and (v) increased interchange revenue. Noninterest Expense The following table presents the components of our total noninterest expense: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Technology and product development $ 126,845 $ 99,366 $ 27,479 28 % $ 243,904 $ 181,274 $ 62,630 35 % Sales and marketing 182,822 143,854 38,968 27 357,976 281,992 75,984 27 Cost of operations 93,885 79,091 14,794 19 177,793 149,528 28,265 19 General and administrative 131,180 125,829 5,351 4 254,869 262,334 (7,465) (3) Provision for credit losses 12,615 10,103 2,512 25 21,022 23,064 (2,042) (9) Total noninterest expense $ 547,347 $ 458,243 $ 89,104 19 % $ 1,055,564 $ 898,192 $ 157,372 18 % Three Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $89.1 million, or 19%, for the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2022, primarily driven by: (i) increases in advertising and marketing expenditures, utilization of lead generation channels and direct member incentives, (ii) higher employee compensation and benefits, which was primarily related to the Lending and Financial Services segments, as well as corporate functions, in support of our growth, and was impacted by the inflationary environment, (iii) increases in amortization of intangible assets primarily due to acquired intangible assets in the Technisys Merger and Wyndham acquisition, and (iv) increased amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and in tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology. Six Months. Total noninterest expense increased by $157.4 million, or 18%, for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, primarily driven by: (i) increases in advertising and marketing expenditures, utilization of lead generation channels and direct member incentives, (ii) higher employee compensation and benefits, which was primarily attributable to the inclusion of Technisys for the full 2023 period compared to a partial period in 2022, and increases related to the Lending and Financial Services segments, as well as corporate functions, in support of our growth, and was impacted by the inflationary environment, (iii) increases in amortization of intangible assets primarily due to acquired intangible assets in the Technisys Merger and Wyndham acquisition, (iv) increased amortization of purchased and internally-developed software, and in tools and subscriptions costs, reflective of continued investments in technology, and (v) restructuring and impairment charges during the first quarter of 2023. These increases were partially offset by the absence of transaction expenses that were incurred in the 2022 period related to our acquisition of Technisys. Provision for Credit Losses Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses Allowance for Credit Losses Ratios The following table presents the ratio of allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: ($ in thousands) June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Allowance for credit losses to total loans outstanding Allowance for credit losses $ 41,227 $ 23,178 Total loans held for investment outstanding(1) $ 383,668 $ 273,026 Ratio(2) 10.75 % 8.49 % __________________ (1)Total loans outstanding excludes accrued interest. 67 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS (2)The increase in the ratio was attributable to credit cards and was primarily reflective of an increase in the average balance combined with elevated loss rates. We omitted the credit ratios associated with nonaccrual loans, as the balance of nonaccrual loans was immaterial. Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses The following table presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses and the percentage of loans outstanding by category to total loans outstanding that are measured at amortized cost: June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Allowance for credit losses Percent of loans to total loans(1) Credit card $ 39,361 71 % $ 21,974 71 % Commercial and consumer banking 1,866 29 1,204 29 Total $ 41,227 100 % $ 23,178 100 %__________________ (1)Loans outstanding balances used in the calculation exclude accrued interest. Analysis of Charge-offs The following tables present information regarding average loans outstanding, net charge-offs and the annualized ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 11,896,106 $ 87,337 2.94 % $ 3,637,657 $ 11,340 1.25 % Student loans 5,497,411 5,704 0.42 3,791,179 2,687 0.28 Home loans 79,137 137,757 Credit card(3) 228,171 10,328 18.16 157,642 4,488 11.39 Commercial and consumer banking 109,831 (3) (0.01) 80,181 1 Total loans $ 17,810,656 $ 103,366 2.33 % $ 7,804,416 $ 18,516 0.95 % Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 ($ in thousands) Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Average Loans(1) Net Charge-offs(2) Ratio Personal loans $ 10,745,911 $ 158,406 2.97 % $ 3,193,601 $ 18,451 1.16 % Student loans 5,285,245 10,000 0.38 3,830,197 5,301 0.28 Home loans 72,042 157,943 Credit card(3) 222,736 20,586 18.64 143,836 7,305 10.16 Commercial and consumer banking 106,381 (3) (0.01) 57,788 1 Total loans $ 16,432,315 $ 188,989 2.32 % $ 7,383,365 $ 31,058 0.84 %___________________ (1)Average balances were calculated on daily carrying balances for the 2023 periods and on four-month or seven-month ending carrying balances for the 2022 periods, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. (2)Net charge-offs include both credit- and certain non-credit-related charge-offs. (3)The increase in the net charge-off rate associated with credit card was primarily related to our maturing portfolio. The provision for credit losses did not meaningfully change during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the respective prior year periods. Income Taxes For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, we recorded income tax benefit of $1.8 million and $3.4 million, respectively. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, we recorded income tax expense of $(0.1) million and $(0.9) million, respectively. Income taxes were primarily attributable to tax expense associated with the profitability of SoFi Bank in state jurisdictions where separate filings are required. For the three and six month 2023 periods, this expense was more than offset by income tax benefits from foreign losses in jurisdictions with net deferred tax liabilities related to Technisys. 68 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Summary Results by Segment Contribution profit (loss) is the primary measure of segment-level profit and loss that, along with our key business metrics, is used by management to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends and make strategic decisions. Contribution profit (loss) is defined as total net revenue for each reportable segment less expenses directly attributable to the reportable segment and, in the case of our Lending segment, adjusted for fair value adjustments attributable to assumption changes associated with our servicing rights and residual interests classified as debt. See the sections entitled Consolidated Results of Operations, Summary Results by Segment and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for discussion and analysis of these key financial measures. Lending Segment In the table below, we present certain metrics related to our Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Metric 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 Change % Change Total products (number, as of period end) 1,503,892 1,202,027 301,865 25 % 1,503,892 1,202,027 301,865 25 % Origination volume ($ in thousands, during period) Personal loans $ 3,740,981 $ 2,471,849 $ 1,269,132 51 % $ 6,692,339 $ 4,497,853 $ 2,194,486 49 % Student loans 395,367 398,722 (3,355) (1) 920,740 1,382,526 (461,786) (33) Home loans 243,123 332,047 (88,924) (27) 332,910 644,430 (311,520) (48) Total $ 4,379,471 $ 3,202,618 $ 1,176,853 37 % $ 7,945,989 $ 6,524,809 $ 1,421,180 22 % Loans with a balance (number, as of period end)(1) 901,045 663,387 237,658 36 % 901,045 663,387 237,658 36 % Average loan balance ($, as of period end)(1) Personal loans $ 23,767 $ 24,421 $ (654) (3) % $ 23,767 $ 24,421 $ (654) (3) % Student loans(2) 45,523 48,474 (2,951) (6) 45,523 48,474 (2,951) (6) Home loans 277,077 287,205 (10,128) (4) 277,077 287,205 (10,128) (4) __________________ (1)Loans with a balance and average loan balance include loans on our balance sheet, as well as transferred loans and referred loans with which we have a continuing involvement through our servicing agreements. (2)In-school loans carry a lower average balance than student loan refinancing products. Total Products Total products in our Lending segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Lending segment. Origination Volume We refer to the aggregate dollar amount of loans originated through our platform in a given period as origination volume. Origination volume is an indicator of the size and health of our Lending segment and an indicator (together with the relevant loan characteristics, such as interest rate and prepayment and default expectations) of revenues and profitability. Changes in origination volume are driven by the addition of new members and existing members, the latter of which at times will either refinance into a new SoFi loan or secure an additional, concurrent loan, as well as macroeconomic factors impacting consumer spending and borrowing behavior. Since the profitability of the Lending segment is largely correlated with origination volume, management relies on origination volume trends to assess the need for external financing to support the Financial Services segment and the expense budgets for unallocated expenses. Personal Loans. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, personal loan origination volume increased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 periods, primarily due to increased demand driven by expanded marketing efforts and increased demand for debt consolidation products in a rising interest rate environment. Student Loans. During the six months ended June 30, 2023, student loan origination volume declined significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 period, as demand for student loan refinancing products continued to be unfavorably impacted by the ongoing suspension of principal and interest payments on federally-held student loans and the expectation of 69 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS debt cancellation for certain federal student loan borrowers, combined with a continued rising interest rate environment in 2023. See Key Factors Affecting Operating ResultsStudent Loan Relief for additional discussion of student loans. Home Loans. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, home loan origination volume decreased significantly relative to the corresponding 2022 periods due to continued rising interest rates, which tends to lower demand for home loans overall and shift demand from refinance originations to purchase originations, the latter of which is a more competitive landscape. Although purchase originations historically represented a smaller percentage of our home loan originations, our mix during the 2023 period has shifted toward more purchase originations, which we would expect to continue under similar macroeconomic conditions. Our home loan origination volume increased notably in the second quarter of 2023 compared to the first quarter of 2023, aided by the increased capacity and capabilities subsequent to our acquisition of Wyndham, which we expect to continue to provide benefits during the remainder of the year. Loans with a Balance and Average Loan Balance Loans with a balance refers to the number of loans that have a balance greater than zero dollars as of the reporting date. Loans with a balance allows management to better understand the unit economics of acquiring a loan in relation to the lifetime value of that loan. Average loan balance is defined as the total unpaid principal balance of the loans divided by loans with a balance within the respective loan product category as of the reporting date. Average loan balance tends to fluctuate based on the pace of loan originations relative to loan repayments and the initial loan origination size. In the table below, we present additional information related to our lending products: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Overall weighted average origination FICO 748 751 749 753 Personal Loans Weighted average origination FICO 745 748 746 747 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 12.89 % 11.62 % 12.80 % 11.34 % Interest income recognized $ 363,981 $ 101,475 $ 651,208 $ 173,585 Sales of loans $ 50,013 $ 1,123,898 $ 50,013 $ 2,101,818 Student Loans Weighted average origination FICO 768 773 768 774 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 4.93 % 4.08 % 4.86 % 4.04 % Interest income recognized $ 65,769 $ 38,078 $ 124,429 $ 75,840 Sales of loans $ 96,678 $ 259,690 $ 96,678 $ 803,840 Home Loans Weighted average origination FICO 756 744 757 748 Weighted average interest rate earned(1) 6.02 % 2.91 % 5.41 % 2.77 % Interest income recognized $ 1,322 $ 1,052 $ 2,165 $ 2,232 Sales of loans $ 266,413 $ 342,780 $ 344,293 $ 708,150 __________________ (1)Weighted average interest rate earned represents annualized interest income recognized divided by the average unpaid principal balances of loans outstanding during the period, determined on a daily basis for the 2023 periods and on a four-month or seven-month basis for the 2022 periods, as the daily analysis in the prior period would have involved undue burden. Both average calculations are representative of our operations. 70 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Lending Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Lending segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 231,885 $ 114,003 $ 117,882 103 % $ 432,932 $ 208,357 $ 224,575 108 % Noninterest income 99,556 143,114 (43,558) (30) 235,590 301,749 (66,159) (22) Total net revenue 331,441 257,117 74,324 29 668,522 510,106 158,416 31 Servicing rights change in valuation inputs or assumptions(1) (8,601) (9,098) 497 (5) (20,685) (20,678) (7) Residual interests classified as debt change in valuation inputs or assumptions(2) (602) 2,662 (3,264) n/m (513) 5,625 (6,138) n/m Directly attributable expenses (138,929) (108,690) (30,239) 28 (254,117) (220,411) (33,706) 15 Contribution profit $ 183,309 $ 141,991 $ 41,318 29 % $ 393,207 $ 274,642 $ 118,565 43 % Adjusted net revenue(3) $ 322,238 $ 250,681 $ 71,557 29 % $ 647,324 $ 495,053 $ 152,271 31 %___________________ (1)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including market servicing costs, conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. This non-cash change, which is recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), is unrealized during the period and, therefore, has no impact on our cash flows from operations. As such, the changes in fair value attributable to assumption changes are adjusted to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the cash flows available to finance our operations. (2)Reflects changes in fair value inputs and assumptions, including conditional prepayment, default rates and discount rates. When third parties finance our consolidated VIEs through purchasing residual interests, we receive proceeds at the time of the securitization close and, thereafter, pass along contractual cash flows to the residual interest owner. These obligations are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, with fair value changes recorded within noninterest income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). The fair value change attributable to assumption changes has no impact on our initial financing proceeds, our future obligations to the residual interest owner (because future residual interest claims are limited to contractual securitization collateral cash flows), or the general operations of our business. As such, this non-cash change in fair value is adjusted to provide management and financial users with better visibility into the cash flows available to finance our operations. (3)Adjusted net revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure. For information regarding our use and definition of this measure and for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, total net revenue, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures herein. Net interest income Net interest income in our Lending segment increased by $117.9 million, or 103%, and by $224.6 million, or 108%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily attributable to increases in average personal loan unpaid principal balances of $7.1 billion (213%) and $6.5 billion (227%), respectively, and in average student loan unpaid principal balances of $1.8 billion (56%) and $1.6 billion (50%), respectively, combined with a higher weighted average interest rate. The personal loan average balance increase was primarily attributable to higher origination volume and longer loan holding periods. The student loan average balance increase was primarily attributable to longer loan holding periods. Interest expense associated with funding our lending activities increased by $172.7 million, or 592%, and by $302.0 million, or 621%, for the three and six-month year-over-year periods, respectively, primarily due to the sharp increases in benchmark rates which are reflective of the higher interest rate environment year over year, as well as higher average loan balances. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Lending segment decreased by $43.6 million, or 30%, and by $66.2 million, or 22%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily driven by lower loan origination and sales income of $41.4 million and $72.6 million, respectively. For the six month period, this was partially offset by higher securitizations income of $6.9 million. 71 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Loan Origination and Sales The following table presents the components of noninterest incomeloan origination and sales: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change In period originations, loan sale execution and fair value adjustments(1) $ 56,380 $ 82,768 $ (26,388) (32) % $ 279,975 $ 95,072 $ 184,903 194 % Economic derivative hedges of loan fair values 116,730 69,535 47,195 68 85,502 230,142 (144,640) (63) Other derivative instruments(2) 65 3,467 (3,402) (98) 2,263 (4,624) 6,887 n/m Loan origination fees 16,121 2,638 13,483 511 17,183 3,931 13,252 337 Loan write-off expense whole loans(3) (86,177) (13,603) (72,574) 534 (156,027) (21,677) (134,350) 620 Loan repurchase (expense) benefit(4) (153) (93) (60) 65 272 1,787 (1,515) (85) Other 114 (275) 389 n/m 426 (2,487) 2,913 n/m Loan origination and sales noninterest income $ 103,080 $ 144,437 $ (41,357) (29) % $ 229,594 $ 302,144 $ (72,550) (24) %___________________ (1)Includes fair value adjustments on loans originated during the period, fair value adjustments on loans held at the balance sheet date, as well as gains (losses) on loans sold during the period. Fair value adjustments are impacted by interest rates, weighted average coupon, credit spreads, actual and estimated losses, prepayment speeds, duration and previous loan sale execution on similar loans. (2)Includes IRLCs, interest rate caps and purchase price earn-out. (3)For the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, includes gross write-offs of $102.9 million and $17.7 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $16.7 million and $4.1 million, respectively, of which $10.8 million and $1.0 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. For the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, includes gross write-offs of $186.3 million and $29.5 million, respectively. Total recoveries were $30.3 million and $7.8 million, respectively, of which $17.6 million and $1.7 million, respectively, were captured via loan sales to a third-party collection agency. The increases in loan write-off expense were related to increased origination volume and longer loan holding periods. (4)Represents the (expense) benefit associated with our estimated loan repurchase obligation. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Three Months. The decrease in loan origination and sales income was primarily driven by: (i) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2023 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) lower fair value gains on personal loans and fair value losses on student loans (compared to gains in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by higher benchmark rates, higher personal loan origination volume, and longer loan holding periods, and (iii) lower gains in the 2023 period on home loan pipeline hedges, which were driven by smaller increases in the underlying hedge price index. This decrease was partially offset by: (i) higher gains on student loan and personal loan interest rate swap positions in the 2023 period, primarily driven by increases in interest rates during the 2023 period and higher notional amounts,(ii) fair value gains on home loans (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by lower benchmark rates, and (iii) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans. Six Months. The decrease in loan origination and sales income was primarily driven by: (i) higher personal loan write-offs in the 2023 period, primarily driven by longer loan holding periods and elevated charge off rates, and (ii) lower gains in the 2023 period on student loan and personal loan interest rate swap positions and on home loan pipeline hedges primarily driven by smaller increases in interest rates and in the underlying hedge price index during the 2023 period, respectively. This decrease was partially offset by: (i) higher fair value gains on personal loans and fair value gains on student loans in the 2023 period (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by higher origination volume and lower prepayment assumptions, respectively, (ii) fair value gains on home loans (compared to losses in the 2022 period), which were primarily impacted by smaller decreases in benchmark rates, (iii) higher origination fees primarily related to a new product feature offered on personal loans, and (iv) losses on loan sale execution in the 2022 period, which were due to both volume and price factors. Securitizations Six Months. The improvement in securitizations income was primarily driven by a positive variance in our securitization bond fair values, and an increase in securitization loan fair market values primarily associated with a consolidated securitization transaction in the first quarter of 2023, partially offset by lower gains in the 2023 period on risk retention hedge activities. 72 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Servicing We own the master servicing on all of the servicing rights that we retain and, in each case, recognize the gross servicing rate applicable to each serviced loan. Sub-servicers are utilized for all serviced student loans and home loans, which represents a cost to SoFi, but these arrangements do not impact our calculation of the weighted average basis points earned for each loan type serviced. Further, there is no impact on servicing income due to forbearance and moratoriums on certain debt collection activities, and there are no waivers of late fees. The table below presents information related to our loan servicing activities: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Servicing income recognized Personal loans $ 5,649 $ 9,103 $ (3,454) (38) % $ 12,186 $ 18,095 $ (5,909) (33) % Student loans 6,301 9,705 (3,404) (35) 13,016 19,826 (6,810) (34) Home loans 3,727 3,103 624 20 7,331 6,029 1,302 22 Servicing rights fair value change Personal loans $ (1,366) $ 1,916 $ (3,282) n/m $ (7,945) $ 2,156 $ (10,101) n/m Student loans (1,298) (1,038) (260) 25 % 2,550 (5,084) 7,634 n/m Home loans 1,813 2,581 (768) (30) 1,204 11,633 (10,429) (90) % Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Lending segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Direct advertising $ 47,592 $ 41,097 $ 6,495 16 % $ 93,366 $ 82,891 $ 10,475 13 % Compensation and benefits 30,420 26,570 3,850 14 56,106 50,138 5,968 12 Lead generation 33,453 21,499 11,954 56 55,074 43,382 11,692 27 Loan origination and servicing costs 13,019 10,471 2,548 24 23,369 21,102 2,267 11 Professional services 2,767 2,349 418 18 4,960 3,869 1,091 28 Intercompany technology platform expenses 212 212 n/m 212 212 n/m Other(1) 11,466 6,704 4,762 71 21,030 19,029 2,001 11 Directly attributable expenses $ 138,929 $ 108,690 $ 30,239 28 % $ 254,117 $ 220,411 $ 33,706 15 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include loan marketing expenses, member promotional expenses, tools and subscriptions, travel and occupancy-related costs and third party loan fraud. Lending segment directly attributable expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 increased by $30.2 million, or 28%, and $33.7 million, or 15%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase in personal loan lead generation channels during 2023; (ii) an increase in direct advertising primarily related to direct mail, radio/podcast, digital media and search engine advertising, partially offset by a decline in social media advertisement; (iii) an increase in allocated compensation and related benefits, which reflected increases in average compensation and average headcount in 2023; and (iv) an increase in other expenses, primarily related to third-party loan fraud. 73 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Technology Platform Segment In the table below, we present the total accounts metric related to Galileo within our Technology Platform segment: 2023 vs 2022 June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Change % Change Total accounts 129,356,203 116,570,038 12,786,165 11 % See Key Business Metrics for further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Technology Platform segment. Technology Platform Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution profit for the Technology Platform segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Noninterest income $ 87,623 $ 83,899 $ 3,724 4 % $ 165,510 $ 144,704 $ 20,806 14 % Total net revenue 87,623 83,899 3,724 4 165,510 144,704 20,806 14 Directly attributable expenses (70,469) (62,058) (8,411) 14 (133,499) (104,608) (28,891) 28 Contribution profit $ 17,154 $ 21,841 $ (4,687) (21) % $ 32,011 $ 40,096 $ (8,085) (20) % Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Technology Platform segment increased by $3.7 million, or 4%, and $20.8 million, or 14%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022. The increase in the six-month period was primarily attributable to growth in technology products and solutions fees driven by revenue contribution from Technisys for the full 2023 period compared to four months of 2022. Noninterest income included $5.0 million and $8.7 million of intercompany revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to $1.7 million and $2.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, respectively. Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Technology Platform segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution profit were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 39,342 $ 36,405 $ 2,937 8 % $ 78,046 $ 61,682 $ 16,364 27 % Product fulfillment 12,325 9,598 2,727 28 22,548 18,958 3,590 19 Tools and subscriptions 7,333 4,881 2,452 50 13,846 8,127 5,719 70 Professional services 3,243 4,584 (1,341) (29) 7,177 6,883 294 4 Other(1) 8,226 6,590 1,636 25 11,882 8,958 2,924 33 Directly attributable expenses $ 70,469 $ 62,058 $ 8,411 14 % $ 133,499 $ 104,608 $ 28,891 28 %___________________ (1)Other expenses are primarily related to travel and occupancy-related costs, advertising and marketing, and data center costs. Technology Platform segment directly attributable expenses increased by $8.4 million, or 14%, and $28.9 million, or 28%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase in compensation and benefits expense, primarily related to bonus adjustments in the three-month 2023 period and the inclusion of Technisys in our results for the full six-month 2023 period; (ii) an increase in tools and subscriptions costs related to internal technology initiatives to support the growth of the platform, along with the inclusion of Technisys in our results for the full six-month 2023 period; and (iii) an increase in product fulfillment costs, primarily related to payment processing network association fees associated with increased activity on the platform. 74 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Services Segment In the table below, we present the total products metric related to our Financial Services segment: 2023 vs. 2022 June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 Change % Change Total products 7,897,133 5,362,147 2,534,986 47 % Total products in our Financial Services segment is a subset of our total products metric. See Key Business Metrics for a further discussion of this measure as it relates to our Financial Services segment. Financial Services Segment Results of Operations The following table presents the measure of contribution loss for the Financial Services segment: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest income $ 74,637 $ 12,925 $ 61,712 477 % $ 132,674 $ 18,807 $ 113,867 605 % Noninterest income 23,415 17,438 5,977 34 46,479 35,099 11,380 32 Total net revenue 98,052 30,363 67,689 223 179,153 53,906 125,247 232 Directly attributable expenses (102,399) (84,063) (18,336) 22 (207,735) (157,121) (50,614) 32 Contribution loss $ (4,347) $ (53,700) $ 49,353 (92) % $ (28,582) $ (103,215) $ 74,633 (72) % Net interest income Net interest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $61.7 million, or 477%, and $113.9 million, or 605%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, which was primarily attributable to net interest income earned on our deposits, which includes interest income based on our FTP framework (which eliminates in consolidation) and interest expense to members. This net increase corresponds with the growth of deposits at SoFi Bank, as well as the impact of higher interest rates offered to members. In addition, net interest income earned on our credit cards increased, which includes interest income earned on outstanding balances as well as interest expense incurred under the FTP framework, and was primarily attributable to growth in total credit cards. Noninterest income Noninterest income in our Financial Services segment increased by $6.0 million, or 34%, and $11.4 million, or 32%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to an increase in interchange fees, which coincided with increased credit card and debit card transactions. 75 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Directly attributable expenses The directly attributable expenses allocated to the Financial Services segment that were used in the determination of the segment's contribution loss were as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Compensation and benefits $ 30,692 $ 26,371 $ 4,321 16 % $ 61,167 $ 50,309 $ 10,858 22 % Direct advertising 15,566 9,299 6,267 67 28,641 16,151 12,490 77 Lead generation 6,427 6,064 363 6 23,480 8,573 14,907 174 Member incentives 11,862 9,202 2,660 29 23,317 15,805 7,512 48 Product fulfillment 11,261 8,228 3,033 37 21,870 15,425 6,445 42 Provision for credit losses 12,615 10,103 2,512 25 21,022 23,064 (2,042) (9) Intercompany technology platform expenses 2,641 953 1,688 177 4,738 1,723 3,015 175 Professional services 2,533 1,234 1,299 105 4,140 2,334 1,806 77 Other(1) 8,802 12,609 (3,807) (30) 19,360 23,737 (4,377) (18) Directly attributable expenses $ 102,399 $ 84,063 $ 18,336 22 % $ 207,735 $ 157,121 $ 50,614 32 % ___________________ (1)Other expenses primarily include operational product losses, third party fraud expense, tools and subscriptions, travel and occupancy-related costs, and marketing expenses. Financial Services directly attributable expenses increased by $18.3 million, or 22%, and $50.6 million, or 32%, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2022, primarily due to: (i) an increase related to utilization of lead generation channels during the six-month 2023 period, primarily related to our SoFi Money and credit card products during the six-month period; (ii) an increase in direct advertising costs primarily driven by an increase in search engine advertising largely related to the continued promotion of our SoFi Money product; (iii) an increase in compensation and benefits expense, which reflected our ongoing prioritization of growth in the Financial Services segment that required additional staffing, as well as increased average compensation in 2023; (iv) an increase in direct member incentives utilized to drive adoption and usage of our Financial Services products, the most significant of which was our SoFi Money product; and (v) an increase in product fulfillment costs primarily related to our SoFi Money product, which included debit card fulfillment services. Corporate/Other Non-Reportable Segment Non-segment operations are classified as Corporate/Other, which includes net revenues associated with corporate functions, non-recurring gains and losses from non-securitization investment activities and interest income and realized gains and losses associated with investments in AFS debt securities, all of which are not directly related to a reportable segment. Net interest expense within Corporate/Other also reflects the financial impact of our capital management activities within the treasury function, which reflects the residual impact from FTP charges and FTP credits allocated to our reportable segments under our FTP framework. The following table presents the measure of total net loss for Corporate/Other: Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 vs 2022 ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Net interest expense $ (15,396) $ (4,199) $ (11,197) 267 % $ (38,470) $ (9,502) $ (28,968) 305 % Noninterest loss (3,702) (4,653) 951 (20) (4,539) (6,343) 1,804 (28) Total net loss $ (19,098) $ (8,852) $ (10,246) 116 % $ (43,009) $ (15,845) $ (27,164) 171 % 76 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Reconciliation of Directly Attributable Expenses The following table reconciles directly attributable expenses allocated to our reportable segments to total noninterest expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2023 2022 Reportable segments directly attributable expenses $ (311,797) $ (254,811) $ (595,351) $ (482,140) Intercompany expenses 4,954 1,671 8,695 2,441 Expenses not allocated to segments: Share-based compensation expense (75,878) (80,142) (140,104) (157,163) Employee-related costs(1) (55,605) (45,316) (117,419) (88,006) Depreciation and amortization expense (50,130) (38,056) (95,451) (68,754) Other corporate and unallocated expenses(2) (58,891) (41,589) (115,934) (104,570) Total noninterest expense $ (547,347) $ (458,243) $ (1,055,564) $ (898,192) ___________________ (1)Includes compensation, benefits, restructuring charges, recruiting, certain occupancy-related costs and various travel costs of executive management, certain technology groups and general and administrative functions that are not directly attributable to the reportable segments. (2)Represents corporate overhead costs that are not allocated to reportable segments, which primarily includes corporate marketing and advertising costs, tools and subscription costs, professional services costs, corporate and FDIC insurance costs and transaction-related expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity We strive to maintain access to diverse funding sources and ample liquidity to fund our operating requirements, to pursue strategic growth initiatives and to meet our legal and regulatory requirements. Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, including cash from operations, and investments in other highly liquid assets. We maintain a Capital and Asset Liability Management policy (CALM) that outlines specific requirements relating to the oversight of SoFi Technologies, Inc. (and its subsidiaries) capital planning, financial planning and forecasting, liquidity risk management, contingency funding planning, interest rate risk management, cash management and financial operations, among other activities. Oversight of these activities is the responsibility of our Asset Liability Committee (the "ALCO"). The ALCO is comprised of a cross-functional leadership team that is responsible for managing our use of capital, liquidity, sources and uses of funding, and sensitivities to various market risks, by identifying key risks and exposures, monitoring them appropriately, establishing tolerances and limits, and mitigating risks where appropriate, to ensure the Company has the ability to meet its obligations. 77 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table summarizes our total liquidity reserves: June 30, 2023 Amount Available Amount Borrowed / Utilized Remaining Available Capacity Cash and cash equivalents n/a n/a $ 3,015,652 Investments in available-for-sale debt securities(1) 382,782 69,689 313,093 Warehouse facilities(2) 8,495,000 4,023,872 4,471,128 Revolving credit facility(3) 645,000 492,000 153,000 FHLB advances(1) 86,371 13,700 72,671 Correspondent bank lines of credit(4) 50,000 50,000 Total liquidity $ 9,659,153 $ 4,599,261 $ 8,075,544 ___________________ (1)As of June 30, 2023, we pledged $69.7 million of investment securities and $27.5 million of loans to the FHLB to secure borrowing capacity of $86.4 million, of which $13.7 million was utilized to secure letters of credit. (2)Includes personal loan, student loan, credit card and risk retention warehouse facilities. For risk retention facilities, we only include capacity amounts wherein we can pledge additional asset-backed bonds and residual investments as of the date indicated. As of June 30, 2023, warehouse facility maturity dates ranged from July 2023 through January 2032. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)In April 2023, the Company entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which, among other things, increased the initial aggregate commitment and extended the maturity date of the revolving credit facility to April 2028. As of June 30, 2023, the amount utilized under the revolving credit facility includes $6.0 million utilized to secure a letter of credit. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4)Borrowing capacity with correspondent banks is unsecured. We believe our existing liquidity will be sufficient to cover net losses, meet our existing working capital and capital expenditure needs, as well as our planned growth for at least the next 12 months. Sources of Funding Our primary funding sources include SoFi Bank deposits, warehouse funding, common and preferred equity capital, convertible debt, corporate revolving credit facility, securitizations, and other financings. We offer deposit accounts (checking and savings accounts) to our members through SoFi Bank. We also source brokered and non-brokered wholesale deposits, which include certificates of deposit. As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, time deposit balances due in less than one year totaled $2.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. As of June 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the amount of uninsured deposits totaled $318.1 million and $615.9 million, respectively. In 2023, we provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks, which contributed to the decrease in uninsured deposits relative to year end. As of June 30, 2023, approximately 98% of our total deposits were insured. Uses of Funding Our primary uses of funds include loan originations, the losses generated by our Financial Services segment, and investments in our business, such as technology and product investments and sales and marketing initiatives. Our capital expenditures have historically been less significant relative to our operating and financing cash flows, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. As of June 30, 2023, we had debt obligations, common stock and redeemable preferred stock outstanding. Borrowings Our borrowings primarily included our loan and risk retention warehouse facilities, asset-backed securitization debt, revolving credit facility and convertible notes. The amount of financing actually advanced on each individual loan under our loan warehouse facilities, as determined by agreed-upon advance rates, may be less than the stated advance rate depending, in part, on changes in underlying loan characteristics of the loans securing the financings. Each of our loan warehouse facilities allows the lender providing the funds to evaluate the market value of the loans that are serving as collateral for the borrowings or advances being made. The amount owed and outstanding on our loan warehouse facilities fluctuates significantly based on our origination volume, sales volume, the amount of time we strategically hold loans on our balance sheet, and the amount of loans being funded with our cash or member deposits. 78 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Refer to Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and to Note 12. Debt to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our borrowing arrangements and the capped call transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of our convertible notes. Covenants We have various affirmative and negative financial covenants, as well as non-financial covenants, related to our warehouse debt and revolving credit facility, as well as our Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock. Additionally, we have compliance requirements associated with our convertible notes, and certain provisions of the arrangement could change in the event of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, as defined in the indenture governing such convertible notes. The availability of funds under our warehouse facilities and revolving credit facility is subject to, among other conditions, our continued compliance with the covenants. These financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintaining: (i) a certain minimum tangible net worth, (ii) minimum unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, (iii) a maximum leverage ratio of total debt to tangible net worth, and (iv) minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. A breach of these covenants can result in an event of default under these facilities and allows the lenders to pursue certain remedies. See Note 9. Debt to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our subsidiaries are restricted in the amount that can be distributed to SoFi only to the extent that such distributions would cause the financial covenants to not be met. In addition, pursuant to our amended and restated agreement related to our Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock, we are subject to the following financial covenants: Tangible net worth to total debt ratio requirement, which excludes our warehouse, risk retention and securitization related debt; Tangible net worth to Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock ratio requirement; and Minimum excess equity requirements, where the measure of equity includes permanent equity and SoFi Technologies Redeemable Preferred Stock (exclusive of Series 1 Redeemable Preferred Stock), as applicable. We were in compliance with all covenants as of June 30, 2023. Capital Management SoFi Technologies, a bank holding company, and SoFi Bank, a nationally chartered association, are required to comply with regulatory capital rules issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the OCC and FDIC. From time to time, we may contribute capital to SoFi Bank. We are required to manage our capital position to maintain sufficient capital to satisfy these regulatory rules and support our business activities, including the requirement to maintain minimum regulatory capital ratios in accordance with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standardized approach for U.S. banking organizations (U.S. Basel III). If the Federal Reserve finds that we are not well-capitalized or well-managed, we would be required to take remedial action, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to prohibit bank holding companies and banks, respectively, from paying dividends if, in their opinion, the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Under the National Bank Act, SoFi Bank generally may, without prior approval of the OCC, declare a dividend so long as the total amount of all dividends (common and preferred), including the proposed dividend, in the current year do not exceed net income for the current year to date plus retained net income for the prior two years. However, taking into account a wide range of factors, the OCC may object and therefore prevent SoFi Bank from paying dividends to the Company. As such, as of June 30, 2023, the Bank would not have any funds free of restrictions that are available for dividend payments. Restrictions on the ability of SoFi Bank to pay dividends to the parent company could also impact the Companys ability to pay dividends to common stockholders. Additionally, under the Federal Reserves capital rules, our bank holding companys ability to pay dividends is restricted if we do not maintain capital above the capital conservation buffer, as discussed below. Further, a policy statement of the Federal Reserve provides that, among other things, a bank holding company generally should not pay dividends on regulatory capital instruments if its net income for the past year is not sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the companys capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Based on this Federal Reserve policy, as of June 30, 2023, the Company generally would not have any funds free of restrictions available for dividend payments on regulatory capital instruments. These requirements establish required minimum ratios for Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and a Tier 1 leverage ratio; set risk-weighting for assets and certain other items for 79 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS purposes of the risk-based capital ratios; and define what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting the capital requirements. Additionally, regulatory capital rules include a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% that is added on top of each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have authority to require banking organizations subject to their supervision to hold additional amounts of capital in excess of the minimum risk-based capital ratios. The risk- and leverage-based capital ratios and amounts are presented below: June 30, 2023 ($ in thousands) Amount Ratio Required Minimum(1) Well-Capitalized Minimum(2) SoFi Bank CET1 risk-based capital $ 2,317,313 15.8 % 7.0 % 6.5 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 2,317,313 15.8 8.5 8.0 Total risk-based capital 2,358,208 16.1 10.5 10.0 Tier 1 leverage 2,317,313 16.1 4.0 5.0 Risk-weighted assets 14,690,190 Quarterly adjusted average assets 14,383,817 SoFi Technologies CET1 risk-based capital $ 3,228,050 15.6 % 7.0 % n/a Tier 1 risk-based capital 3,228,050 15.6 8.5 n/a Total risk-based capital 3,268,945 15.8 10.5 n/a Tier 1 leverage 3,228,050 15.2 4.0 n/a Risk-weighted assets 20,650,454 Quarterly adjusted average assets 21,184,357 ____________________ (1)Required minimums presented for risk-based capital ratios include the required capital conservation buffer. (2)The well-capitalized minimum measure is applicable at the bank level only. As of June 30, 2023, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. There have been no events or conditions since June 30, 2023 that management believes would change the categorization. Commitments In addition to our warehouse facility borrowings, revolving credit facility borrowings and convertible notes, our material commitments requiring, or potentially requiring, the use of cash in future periods primarily include commitments associated with being the named sponsor of SoFi Stadium, including operating lease obligations and finance lease obligations, which expire in 2040, as well as sponsorship and advertising opportunities related to the stadium itself and the surrounding performance venue and planned retail district, and a three-year marketing arrangement entered into during 2022. Additional material commitments include operating lease obligations primarily associated with office premises and the remaining commitment related to a four-year cloud computing services arrangement that we executed in the fourth quarter of 2021. Guarantees We may require liquidity resources associated with our guarantee arrangements. As a component of our loan sale agreements, we make certain representations to third parties that purchased our previously held loans. We have a three-year obligation to GSEs on loans that we sell to GSEs, to repurchase any originated loans that do not meet certain GSE guidelines, and we are required to pay the full initial purchase price back to the GSEs. In addition, we make standard representations and warranties related to personal, student and home loan transfers, as well as limited credit-related repurchase guarantees on certain such transfers. If realized, any of the repurchases would require the use of cash. See Note 15. Commitments, Guarantees, Concentrations and Contingencies to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other guarantee obligations. We believe we have adequate liquidity to meet these expected obligations. Factors Affecting Liquidity We are currently dependent on the success of our lending business. The primary drivers of operating cash flows related to our Lending segment are origination volume, the holding period of our loans, loan sale execution and the timing of loan 80 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS repayments. Our ability to access whole loan buyers, to sell our loans on favorable terms, to maintain adequate warehouse capacity at favorable terms, to access new deposits and grow existing deposits and to strategically manage our continuing financial interest in securitization-related transfers is critical to our growth strategy and our ability to have adequate liquidity to fund our balance sheet. Our ability to attract and maintain deposits can be impacted by, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the banking sector (such as bank failures or exposure to credit, market, operational, legal and reputational risks), competition from other financial services firms, idiosyncratic events and the interest rates we offer, which can impact our liquidity from deposits. Through the second quarter of 2023, we continued to have strong deposit contribution. During 2023, we also provided our members with access to expanded FDIC insurance coverage through a network of participating banks. There is no guarantee that we will be able to execute on our strategy as it relates to the timing and pricing of securitization-related transfers. Therefore, we may hold securitization interests for longer than planned or be forced to liquidate at suboptimal prices. Securitization transfers are also negatively impacted during recessionary periods, wherein purchasers may be more risk averse. Our cash flows from operations have also been impacted by material net losses. If our current net losses continue for the foreseeable future and we are not able to achieve GAAP net income profitability in 2023 as currently expected, we may raise additional capital in the form of equity or debt, which may not be at favorable terms when compared to previous financing transactions. Further, future uncertainties around the demand for our personal loans, home loans and around the student loan refinance market in general, including as a result of worsening macroeconomic conditions or continued turmoil in the banking and financial services sectors, should be considered when assessing our future liquidity and solvency prospects. In the future, our loan origination volume and our resulting loan balances, and any positive cash flows thereof, could also be lower based on strategic decisions to tighten our credit standards. In addition to our ability to pledge unencumbered loans against available warehouse capacity, we have relationships with whole loan buyers who have historically demonstrated strong demand for our loans. Securitization markets can also generate additional liquidity; however, financing through the securitization market could result in worse execution as compared to whole loans sales depending on market conditions and, in certain cases, we are required to maintain a minimum investment due to securitization risk retention rules. Additionally, our securitization transactions require us to maintain a continuing financial interest in the form of securitization investments when we deconsolidate the SPE or in consolidation of the SPE when we have a significant financial interest. In either instance, the continuing financial interest requires us to maintain capital in the SPE that would otherwise be available to us if we had sold loans through a different channel. As it relates to our securitization debt, the maturity of the notes issued by the various trusts occurs upon either the maturity of the loan collateral or full payment of the loan collateral held in the trusts, the timing of which cannot be reasonably estimated. Our own liquidity resources are not required to make any contractual payments on our securitization borrowings. Our long-term liquidity strategy includes continuing to grow our deposit base, maintaining adequate warehouse capacity, maintaining corporate debt and other sources of financing, as well as effectively managing the capital raised through debt and equity transactions. Although our goal is to increase our cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that our future operating plans will lead to improved operating cash flows. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) and FDIC regulations generally limit the ability of an insured depository institution to accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless the institutions capital category is well capitalized or, with the FDICs approval, adequately capitalized. As of June 30, 2023, our regulatory capital ratios exceeded the thresholds required to be regarded as a well-capitalized institution, and meet all capital adequacy requirements to which we are subject. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (the "IRA"), was signed into law. The IRA enacted a 15% corporate book minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on stock repurchases effective after December 31, 2022. The IRA is not expected to have a material impact on our operations or cash flows for the foreseeable future. 81 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis The following table provides a summary of cash flow data: Six Months Ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (4,292,679) $ (1,956,723) Net cash used in investing activities (307,826) (4,918) Net cash provided by financing activities 6,255,232 2,192,231 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in operating activities of $4.3 billion stemmed from a net loss of $82.0 million and an unfavorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $4.5 billion, partially offset by a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $259.5 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $7.9 billion during the period and also purchased loans of $175.2 million. These cash uses were partially offset by principal payments on loans of $3.1 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $491.0 million. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash used in operating activities of $2.0 billion stemmed from a net loss of $206.2 million and an unfavorable change in our operating assets net of operating liabilities of $2.0 billion, partially offset by a positive adjustment for non-cash items of $277.3 million. The change in operating assets net of operating liabilities was primarily a result of our loan origination and sales activities. We originated loans of $6.5 billion during the period and also purchased loans of $0.4 billion. These cash uses were largely offset by principal payments on loans of $1.2 billion and proceeds from loan sales of $3.6 billion. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $307.8 million was primarily attributable to net purchases of $134.4 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities, $72.3 million related to business combinations, net of cash acquired, which includes our acquisition of Wyndham and settlements of vested employee performance awards associated with the Technisys Merger, $62.0 million related to loan activities, primarily driven by credit cards, $49.1 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and $16.7 million related to purchases of non-securitization investments, primarily FRB stock and FHLB stock. These uses were partially offset by proceeds of $29.0 million from our securitization investments. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash used in investing activities of $4.9 million was primarily attributable to proceeds of $76.0 million from our securitization investments, and the aggregate net cash acquired from the Technisys Merger and Bank Merger of $58.5 million. These sources were more than offset by net cash uses of $81.9 million related to loan activities, primarily driven by credit cards, $47.0 million for purchases of property, equipment and software, which primarily included internally-developed software and purchased software, and net cash uses of $7.6 million related to our investments in AFS debt securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the six months ended June 30, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities of $6.3 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $5.4 billion. Additionally, our proceeds from debt financing activity of $1.3 billion exceeded our debt repayments of $407.7 million, which were primarily related to our warehouse facilities. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities of $2.2 billion was primarily attributable to net cash sources from our SoFi Bank deposits of $2.5 billion. Additionally, our proceeds from debt financing activity of $0.1 billion were more than offset by our debt repayments of $0.2 billion, which were primarily related to our warehouse facilities. Our payments of debt issuance costs were in the normal course of business and reflective of our recurring debt warehouse facility activity, which involves securing new warehouse facilities and extending existing warehouse facilities. 82 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Other Arrangements We enter into arrangements in which we originate loans, establish an SPE and transfer loans to the SPE, which has historically served as an important source of liquidity. We also retain the servicing rights of the underlying loans and hold additional interests in the SPE. When an SPE is determined not to be a VIE or when an SPE is determined to be a VIE but we are not the primary beneficiary, the SPE is not consolidated. In addition, a significant change to the pertinent rights of other parties or our pertinent rights, or a significant change to the ranges of possible financial performance outcomes used in our assessment of the variability of cash flows due to us, could impact the determination of whether or not a VIE is consolidated. VIE consolidation and deconsolidation may lead to increased volatility in our financial results and impact period-over-period comparability. Historically, we have established personal loan trusts and student loan trusts that were created and designed to transfer credit and interest rate risk associated with the underlying loans through the issuance of collateralized notes and residual certificates. We hold a variable interest in the trusts through our ownership of collateralized notes in the form of asset-backed bonds and residual certificates. The residual certificates absorb variability and represent the equity ownership interest in the equity portion of the personal loan and student loan trusts. We are also the servicer for all trusts in which we hold a financial interest. Although we have the power as servicer to perform the activities that most impact the economic performance of the VIE, we do not hold a significant financial interest in the trusts and, therefore, we are not the primary beneficiary. Further, we do not provide financial support beyond our initial equity investment, and our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with nonconsolidated VIEs is limited to our investment. For a more detailed discussion of nonconsolidated VIEs, including related activity during the period, see Note 7. Securitization and Variable Interest Entities to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Condition Summary Changes in the composition and balance of our assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 were principally attributed to the following: an increase of $1.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. See Cash Flow and Liquidity Analysis for further discussion of our cash flow activity; an increase in loans held for sale of $4.7 billion, which was primarily related to increased personal loan originations and longer loan holding periods; an increase in deposits of $5.4 billion, which was primarily related to increased savings deposits from members and increased brokered deposits; and an increase of $964.9 million in gross warehouse and risk retention facility debt to support our originations during the current period, which reflected the net impact of $6.2 billion of cash borrowings and $5.2 billion of cash repayments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as revenues and expenses. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, particularly those that include the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are often about matters that are inherently uncertain. We evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changes in market conditions or factors specific to us. There have been no material changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates during 2023. For a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 within Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 83 SoFi Technologies, Inc. TABLE OF CONTENTS Goodwill Our annual impairment testing date is October 1. In interim periods, we perform a qualitative assessment for our reporting units to which goodwill is allocated to determine if, for any reporting unit, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In addition to the factors noted in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 for performing such an assessment, management also considers actual results for the current period and updated internal forecasts as compared to prior internal forecasts and other assumptions used in the quantitative annual assessment. Based on this assessment, while management does not believe that the goodwill in any of the reporting units is impaired as of June 30, 2023, management has determined that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the Galileo and Technisys reporting units within the Technology Platform segment, with goodwill of $1.59 billion, are not substantially in excess of their carrying amounts. Management determined that the longer sales cycle observed in the Technology Platform segment as a result of the shift in strategy to focus on potential new partners with scaled customer bases and interest in multiple Technology Platform products, combined with the uncertain macroeconomic environment, which has impacted customer spend volume, have resulted in lower anticipated growth rates. Management cannot predict the occurrence of certain events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the carrying value of goodwill. We continue to monitor the aforementioned conditions, general macroeconomic deterioration, including the interest rate environment, inflationary pressures, and the potential for a prolonged economic downturn or recession in the U.S., as well as other factors, including those listed in "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report. Further persistence of the aforementioned conditions and these other factors could have a material impact on one or more of the estimates and assumptions used to evaluate goodwill impairment and could result in future goodwill impairment. Recent Accounting Standards Issued, But Not Yet Adopted See Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements herein and Note 1. Organization, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022.