Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsNational Bank Charter for additional information on our regulatory approval process and the Bank Merger. We believe that operating as a bank holding company can enhance our overall profitability. While we have historically relied on third-party bank holding companies to provide banking services to our members (as discussed further in Our Products below), we believe that operating under a national bank charter will allow us to provide members and prospective members broader and more competitive options across their financial services needs, including deposit accounts and loan products, and lower our cost to fund loans (by utilizing our members deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans), which we 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS believe will enable us to offer lower interest rates on loans to members as well as offer higher interest rates on deposit accounts. Following the Bank Merger, we have begun to transfer SoFi Money products to SoFi Bank and intend to continue to transfer our SoFi Money, lending, and SoFi Credit Card products to SoFi Bank over time. Our Differentiation In order to build best-in-class offerings, we focus on four differentiators: fast, selection, content and convenience. (1) Fast We aspire to be the fastest place for our members to responsibly do anything, whether its applying for a loan, getting a funded loan, opening an account, buying or selling a stock, uploading a mobile check, getting access to money, paying a friend, or accessing relevant financial content. Other than certain products acquired and offered through SoFi Bank, our products are all digital and we have a culture of iteration to help drive faster and faster services. (2) Selection Given the digital nature of our products, the permutations of features and services that can be made available to our members across their needs to borrow, save, spend, invest and protect are significant. We will continue to iterate, learn and innovate to broaden our selection in the same way we did by providing our members with the ability to buy single stocks without commissions, purchase fractional shares, invest in SoFi proprietary robo-advisory portfolios, and invest in SoFi-branded Exchange-Traded Funds. (3) Content Our financial education, insights, research content, actionable tools and advice are designed to provide meaningful value for our members. Our carefully-crafted and personalized content is offered through our member home feed and is designed to help our members get their money right. We strive to provide digestible financial education, meaningful answers, salient information, advice, credit scores, financial calculators, investment research and financial news that enhance member loyalty and increase the likelihood that members will use additional SoFi products in the future. (4) Convenience We hold ourselves accountable to providing the most convenient member experience possible in terms of ease of use, ubiquity, functionality, simplicity and responsive customer service. Our long-term goal is to provide the most convenient 24x7 service and dispel the historical construct of financial service availability based on 9-5 Monday through Friday. Each product we offer is delivered in a member-centric way and is built and enhanced with these differentiators in mind. We believe that our member-centric one stop shop for financial services serves as a competitive differentiator for us relative to other financial services providers. We offer our members a full suite of financial products and services all in one common mobile platform. To complement these products and services, we believe in building vertically-integrated technology platforms designed to manage and deliver the suite of solutions to our members in a low-cost and differentiated manner. Our Strategy The Financial Services Productivity Loop We believe that developing a relationship with our members and gaining their trust is central to our success as a financial services platform. Moreover, we believe that some of the current frictions faced by other financial institutions are caused by a disjointed and non-seamless product experience, a lack of digital acquisition, subpar mobile web products instead of digital native apps and incomplete product offerings to meet a customers holistic financial needs. Through our mobile technology and continuous effort to improve our financial services products, we are seeking to build a financial services platform that members can access for all of their financial services needs. Our strategy, which we refer to as the Financial Services Productivity Loop, is centered around building trust and a lifetime relationship with our members, which we believe will help build a sustainable competitive advantage. In order to deliver on our strategy, we must develop best-in-class unit economics and best-in-class products that build trust and reliability between our members and our platform. Our acquisition of SoFi Bank was also an important step in continuing to build best-in-class unit economics and best-in-class products, as we believe it will enable us to offer additional products and lower fees. When we do this on a members first product, and they later consider using an additional product, they are more likely to start with our platform and we have a higher chance that they will select one of our products to meet their other financial needs. This results in delivering more revenue per member with no second member acquisition costs, resulting in higher lifetime value per member. This also reinforces the benefits of our platform, which simplifies the entire financial ecosystem for our members, helping them get their money right. We are able to use the increased profits to further improve member benefits and product experience. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS We believe we are in the early stages of realizing the benefits of the Financial Services Productivity Loop. During the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 600,000 members became multi-product members. In addition to realizing the benefits of more of our members adopting multiple SoFi products, both in terms of additional revenue and lower member acquisition costs per product, the Financial Services Productivity Loop strategy delivers operating and technology efficiencies to deliver better unit economics on a per product basis. One of the success factors of our lending business is that it is vertically integrated across our technology stack, risk protocols and operations processes. Financial Services Productivity Loop Our Products We offer our members a suite of financial products and services all in one digital native application to help members get their money right. In 2011, we started our company with an innovative approach to the private student loan market and later expanded our lending product offerings to include personal loans and home loans. We have continued to expand our overall strategy to not only include products that enable our members to borrow better, but also to save better, spend better, invest better and protect better. In the first quarter of 2019, we launched SoFi Money, SoFi Invest and SoFi Relay. In that same quarter, we also redesigned our end-to-end approach to mortgage lending and relaunched home loans. In the third quarter of 2019, we introduced in-school loans and in the third quarter of 2020, we launched SoFi Credit Card, which was expanded to a broader market in the fourth quarter of 2020. In addition, we have built a social area within our digital native application, which we refer to as the member home feed. In the member home feed, we show our members what is happening in their financial lives through personalized cards with relevant content, news and tools. Through the member home feed, there are significant opportunities to build frequent engagement and, to date, the member home feed has been an important and additional driver of new product adoption. The member home feed is an important part of our strategy and our ability to use data as a competitive advantage. To complement these products and services, we believe in establishing partnerships to leverage our existing capabilities to reach a broader market and in building vertically-integrated technology platforms designed to manage and deliver our suite of solutions to our members in a low-cost and differentiated manner. Our Reportable Segments We conduct our business through three reportable segments: Lending, Technology Platform and Financial Services. Below is a discussion of our segments and their corresponding products. Lending Segment Our origins are in student loans. On the strength of our capabilities in student lending, we expanded into personal loans and home loans and related services. We believe that our market opportunity within each of these lending channels is significant. Our lending process primarily leverages an in-application, digital borrowing experience, which we believe serves as a competitive advantage as digital lending becomes increasingly ubiquitous. We expect to begin accepting new loan applications and originating new loans within SoFi Bank over time. As a bank holding company, we expect to be able to offer a wider range of loan sizes and interest rates through SoFi Bank. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Student Loans. We primarily operate in the student loan refinance space, with a focus on super-prime graduate school loans. We later expanded into in-school lending, which allows members to borrow funds while they attend school. We offer flexible loan sizes and repayment options, competitive rates, and the ability to lock in an interest rate for funding at a later time on our student loan products. Personal Loans. We primarily originate personal loans for debt consolidation purposes and home improvement projects. We offer fixed and variable rate loans with no origination fees and flexible repayment terms, such as unemployment protection. There are other personal loan purposes or channels that we have not aggressively pursued, which we believe could represent opportunities for us in the future. Home Loans. We have historically offered agency and non-agency loans for members purchasing a home or refinancing an existing mortgage. For our home loan products, we offer competitive rates, flexible down payment options for as little as 3% and educational tools and calculators. A key element of our underwriting process is the ability to facilitate risk-based interest rates that are appropriate for each loan. Using SoFis proprietary risk models, we project quarterly loan performance, including expected losses and prepayments. The outcome of this process helps us determine a more data-driven, risk-adjusted interest rate that we can offer our members. We have developed an extensive underwriting process across each lending product that is focused on willingness to pay (measured by credit attributes), ability to pay (measured through income verification), and capacity to pay (measured by debt service in relation to other loans). Our student loan and personal loan underwriting models consider credit reports, industry credit and bankruptcy prediction models, custom credit assessment models, and debt capacity analysis, as indicated by borrower free cash flow (defined as borrower monthly net income less revolving and installment payments less housing payments). We decreased our in-school loan minimum FICO requirement in conjunction with our launch of a revised underwriting strategy during 2021, which utilizes an advanced risk model that focuses on borrowers ability to pay and provides refined risk separation. Home loans originated by SoFi that are agency conforming loans are subject to credit, debt service, and collateral eligibility established by Fannie Mae. Existing members generally experience a higher approval rate than new members, subject to the existing member being in good standing on their existing products. Home loans originated by us that are non-agency loans are subject to our credit criteria, which typically includes a minimum tri-bureau credit score, established credit history requirements, income verification, as well as maximum qualified mortgage limits on debt-to-income service and caps on loan-to-value based on an accredited appraisal. We also leverage our data to provide existing members a streamlined application process through automation. Our lending business is primarily a gain-on-sale model, whereby we seek to originate loans and recognize a gain from these loans when we sell them into either our whole loan or securitization channels. We sell our whole loans primarily to large financial institutions, such as bank holding companies, typically at a premium to par, and in excess of our costs to originate the loans. Our loan premiums fluctuate from time to time based on benchmark rates and credit spreads, and we are not guaranteed a gain on all or any of our loan sales. When securitizing loans, we first isolate the underlying loans in a trust and then sell the beneficial interests in the trust to a bankruptcy-remote entity. In securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale accounting, the related assets remain on our consolidated balance sheet and cash proceeds received are reported as liabilities, with related interest expense recognized over the life of the related borrowing. In securitization transactions that qualify for sale accounting, we typically have insignificant continuing involvement as an investor. Prior to selling our loans, we hold our loans on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value and primarily rely upon warehouse financing and our own capital to enable us to expand our origination capabilities. By securing our national bank charter, we believe we can lower our cost of funding by utilizing our members deposits held at SoFi Bank to fund our loans. Net interest income, which we define as the difference between the earned interest income and interest expense to finance loans, is a key component of the profitability of our Lending segment. In the case of both whole loan sales and securitizations, and with the exception of certain of our home loans, we also continue to retain servicing rights to our originated loans following transfer. We view servicing as an integral component of the Lending segment, as we believe our servicing function is an important asset because of the connection to the member it affords us throughout the life of the loan. We directly service all of the personal loans that we originate. We act as master servicer for, and rely on sub-servicers to directly service, all of our student loans and Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) conforming home loans. We believe this ongoing relationship with our members enhances the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop by increasing member touchpoints and driving increases in the number of products per member. Furthermore, our platform supports the full transaction lifecycle, including credit application, underwriting, approval, funding and servicing. Through data derived at loan origination and throughout the servicing process, SoFi has life-of-loan 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS performance data on each loan in its ecosystem that we originate and on which we retain servicing, which provides a meaningful data asset. Technology Platform Segment Our Technology Platform segment consists of Galileo, which we acquired in May 2020. Galileo is a provider of technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions. Through Galileo, we provide services through a suite of program, event and authorization application programming interfaces for financial and non-financial institutions. Additionally, Galileo provides vertical integration benefits with SoFi Money and deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank. We earn revenue on Galileos platform in the following two ways: Technology Platform Fees: We earn Technology Platform revenues for providing continuous delivery of an integrated technology platform as an outsourced service for financial and non-financial institutions. The platform fees we earn are based on access to the platform and are specific to the type of transaction. For example, we offer event pricing, which includes a specific charge for an account setup, an active account on file, use of Program, Event and Authorization Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), card activation, authorizations and processing, and card loads. In addition, we offer partner pricing, which is the back-end support we provide to Galileos clients, such as live agent customer service, chargeback and fraud analysis and credit bureau reporting, all within one integrated solution for our clients. Program Management Fees: Also referred to as card program fees, these transaction fees are generated from the creation and management of card programs issued by banks and requested by enterprise partners. In these arrangements, Galileo performs card management services and the revenue stems from the payment network and card program fees generated by the card program. This revenue is reduced by association and bank issuer costs, and a revenue share passed along to the enterprise partner that markets the card program. We categorize this class of revenue as payment network fees. Galileo typically enters into multi-year service contracts with its clients. The contracts provide for a variety of integrated platform services, which vary by client and are generally either non-cancellable or cancellable with a substantive payment. Pricing structures under these contracts are typically volume-based, or a combination of activity- and volume-based, and payment terms are predominantly monthly in arrears. Most of Galileos contracts contain minimum monthly payments with agreed upon monthly service levels and may contain penalties if service levels are not met. The Technology Platform segment historically included our minority ownership of Apex Clearing Holdings, LLC (Apex), a technology-enabled provider of investment custody and clearing brokerage services, in which we invested in December 2018 and which investment was called by the seller in January 2021. Apex continues to provide investment custody and clearing services for SoFi Invest, including for our brokerage activities, under a multi-year revenue sharing arrangement. Financial Services Segment Our digital suite of financial services products, by nature, provides more daily interactions with our members and is, therefore, differentiated from our lending products, which inherently have less consistent touchpoints with our members. We offer a suite of financial services solutions, including cash management and investment services across our SoFi Money, SoFi Invest, SoFi Credit Card and SoFi Relay products. SoFi Money is a digitally-native, mobile cash management experience for our members. Following the Bank Merger, we have begun to transfer SoFi Money products to deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank. SoFi Invest is a mobile-first investment platform offering members access to trading and advisory solutions, such as active investing, robo-advisory and digital assets accounts. SoFi Credit Card has no annual fee and is designed to help our members save, invest and pay down debt through a variable rewards program, with higher rewards offerings when redeeming into other SoFi products, such as SoFi Money or deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank, SoFi Invest or SoFi personal or student loans. To complement these products, we offer financial tracking through SoFi Relay, and partner with other enterprises through loan referrals and our SoFi At Work service. We also developed a financial services marketplace platform branded Lantern Credit to help applicants that do not qualify for SoFi products with alternative products from other providers, as well as providing a product comparison experience. SoFi Money. SoFi Money is a digital, mobile cash management account offered by SoFi Securities LLC (SoFi Securities), a FINRA registered broker dealer. The SoFi Money account is a brokerage account powered by the SoFi application and SoFi Money Debit Card. Prior to becoming a bank holding company, we exclusively relied on member bank holding companies (each a Member Bank) to provide cash management services to our members through our bank sweep program at our broker-dealer 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS subsidiary, wherein our members place funds on deposit with us that are then swept out and placed on deposit with Member Banks. We continue to rely on Member Banks to provide such cash management services for our members SoFi Money accounts, which we expect to transition to deposits held at SoFi Bank over time, as further discussed below. We generate interest income from deposits sitting in our various Member Banks, which rates are determined with each bank and are variable in nature, and which is reduced by the interest fees paid to members. We create and manage the digital, mobile cash management experience for our members. We also earn payment network fees on member expenditures via SoFi-branded debit cards issued by one of our Member Banks. Payment network fees are reduced by direct fees payable to card associations and the Member Bank. The Bancorp Bank (Bancorp) is the issuer of all SoFi Money debit cards and sponsors access to debit networks for payment transactions, funding transactions and associated settlement of funds under a sponsorship agreement with SoFi Securities. Additionally, Bancorp provides sponsorship and support for ACH, check, and wire transactions along with associated funds settlement. The SoFi Money product also utilizes a sweep administrator, UMB Bank, National Association (UMB), to sweep funds to and from the SoFi Money program banks, as necessary, under a program broker agreement between SoFi Securities and UMB and program account and program bank agreements with a variety of sweep program banks. SoFi Securities agreement with Bancorp provides for receipt by Bancorp of program revenue and transaction fees, and is subject to a minimum monthly card activity fee. The agreement with Bancorp is terminable by SoFi Securities with 120 days prior notice. The program broker agreement between SoFi Securities and UMB provides for one-year terms that automatically renew and is terminable by either party with at least 90 days written notice prior to the end of the current term. The program account agreements and program bank agreements between SoFi Securities, UMB and the sweep banks provide for the rate of interest payable on the balances in a members SoFi Money account and include certain maximum transfer requirements on transfers. These arrangements are generally terminable upon termination of SoFi Securities sweep arrangement with UMB. As a bank holding company, in 2022 we have begun to allow existing members to convert their SoFi Money cash management accounts into deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank, which allows us to offer both checking and savings features and higher interest rates on the accounts, and through which SoFi Bank is expected to use the deposit accounts as an alternative and more cost-effective source of funding for loans. Additionally, through SoFi Bank we expect to, among other things, issue debit cards and provide ACH, check, and wire transaction services over time. We believe SoFi Money and deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank are attractive to our members and prospective members because our digital banking platform allows members to spend, save and earn interest and rewards in flexible ways, all within our mobile application. Finally, our vaults feature provides a nimble account balance resource that can facilitate budgeting and saving, and provides members with enhanced tracking visibility toward their financial goals. SoFi Invest . SoFi Invest is a digital brokerage service that provides a streamlined mobile investing experience through which we offer multiple ways to invest and give members access to active investing, robo-advisory and digital assets services. Our active investing service enables members to buy and sell stocks and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. Our robo-advisory service offers managed portfolios of stocks, bonds and ETFs. Our digital assets service allows members to buy and sell select digital assets. Furthermore, our innovative stock bits feature allows members to purchase fractional shares in various companies. Our interactive investing experience fosters virality by allowing members to engage with other investors activity on the platform. Finally, consistent with our aim for our members to Get Your Money Right and as part of our commitment to helping our members, we provide access to CFPs at no cost to the member. Additionally, we provide introductory brokerage services to our members and have invested heavily to create an appealing mobile investing experience. While we do not charge trading fees, other than for digital assets trading and for accounts on our 8 Limited platform, our platform benefits from increasing assets under management, as we generate interest income on cash balances that we hold. We also earn brokerage revenue through share lending and pay for order flow arrangements. With respect to our digital assets trading activities, we do not hold or store members digital assets, but instead rely on a third-party custodian, and we hold an immaterial amount of digital assets in order to facilitate paying new member bonuses when members initiate their first digital assets trade. We do this for member convenience to facilitate a seamless payment of digital assets. In connection with our approval as a bank holding company, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the Federal Reserve) determined that the activities of SoFi Digital Assets, LLC in providing members with the ability to buy or sell various digital currencies through SoFi Digital Assets, LLC's omnibus account with a third-party custodian is not a permissible activity under the Bank Holding Company Act and Regulation Y. However, under Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve has permitted us to continue our current digital assets related offering for a two-year conformance period from the date we became a bank holding company, with the possibility for three one-year extensions, provided that we do not expand our impermissible activities, except as authorized by the Bank Holding Company Act and 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Regulation Y, or increase our established risk limits for total customer digital assets maintained in wallets that are accessible online, referred to as hot wallets, or held on balance sheet. Through our stock bits offering, members with SoFi Invest active brokerage accounts may buy or sell fractional shares in a variety of equity securities. Members can place orders in dollars or shares. During the course of a trading day, all member orders are consolidated into a single order for each equity security, which may be a sell or buy order. These fractional orders are rounded up to the next whole share and executed as a market order prior to market close on a standard trading day. Following market close, we allocate the trades to each individual member. Within our SoFi Invest product, we also believe there are opportunities to generate incremental future revenue through margin lending and options. Through our acquisition of 8 Limited in 2020, we expanded SoFi Invest into the Hong Kong market. We view SoFi Invest as an attractive first product for members who may later become deposit account holders or borrow with SoFi. Other. We launched the SoFi Credit Card in the second half of 2020. We expect to transition the SoFi Credit Card assets to SoFi Bank, which is not expected to impact the member experience. Additionally, we developed SoFi Relay within the SoFi mobile application, a personal finance management product which allows members to track all of their financial accounts in one place and utilize credit score monitoring services. Further, we leverage our technology and information infrastructure to offer services to other enterprises, such as loan referrals, referral fulfillment and SoFi At Work, which is a platform we offer to enterprises that are looking for a seamless way to provide financial benefits to their employees, such as student loan payments made on their employees behalf, for which we earn a fee. We have also developed a financial services marketplace platform branded as Lantern Credit to help applicants that do not qualify for SoFi products find alternative products, as well as providing a product comparison experience. Our other services also include SoFi Protect, which partners with providers who offer products to help our members protect their assets, including insurance providers across auto, life, homeowners, property and casual, and renters products and estate planning. Finally, beginning in 2021, we earned revenues for providing equity capital markets services, either by serving in underwriting syndicates or for providing dealer services in partnership with underwriting syndicates in connection with helping companies successfully complete the business combination or initial public offering (IPO) process, as well as advisory services, inclusive of obtaining required shareholder votes. We believe that the content and features we provide within our mobile application can spur more financial education, which leads to more ways for our members to engage in getting their money right and will ultimately demonstrate the effectiveness of our Financial Services Productivity Loop. SoFi Relay also provides us with unified intelligence about our members and offers us meaningful insights about what SoFi products may help our members best achieve their financial goals. We earn revenues in connection with our Financial Services segment through various partnerships and our SoFi Money and SoFi Invest products in the following ways: Brokerage fees: We earn brokerage fees from our share lending and payment for order flow arrangements related to our SoFi Invest product (for which Apex serves as principal, and we are an agent), exchange conversion services and digital assets activity. In our share lending arrangements and payment for order flow arrangements with Apex, we do not oversee the execution of the transactions by our members, but benefit through a negotiated multi-year revenue sharing arrangement, since our members' brokerage activity drives the share lending and payment for order flow volume. Apex connects with market makers (order flow) and institutions (share lending) to facilitate the service and is responsible for execution. Apex carries inventory risk with the share lending and fractional share programs and ultimately is responsible for successful order routing to market makers that trigger the payment for order flow revenue, and therefore is in control of this offering. Apex sets the gross price and negotiates with market makers and institutions as part of our order flow and share lending arrangements. We have no discretion or visibility into this pricing and, instead, negotiate a net fee for our order flow and share lending arrangements, which is settled with Apex rather than with market makers or other institutions. In our digital assets arrangements, our fee is calculated as a negotiated percentage of the transaction volume. In our exchange conversion arrangements, we earn fees for exchanging one currency for another. Historically, these fees have not been a significant portion of our total net revenue. Our arrangements with Apex are governed by an agreement which contains certain minimum monthly requirements and which is terminable by either party upon notice. Although we no longer have an equity method investment in Apex as of December 31, 2021, Apex continues to provide the services under this agreement. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, we introduced a flat monthly platform fee that is charged to members associated with our 8 Limited business in Hong Kong. The fee is assessed at each month end on all members with at least one open 8 Limited brokerage account (with the exception of accounts for which the applicable fee exceeds the accounts net asset value at month end) regardless of the volume or frequency of trading activity during the month. The fee is deducted directly from the members primary brokerage account. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Referral fees: Through strategic partnerships, we earn a specified referral fee in connection with referral activity we facilitate through our platform. Referral fees are paid to us by third-party partners that offer services to end users who do not use one of our product offerings, but who were referred to the partners through our platform. As such, the third-party enterprise partners are our customers in these referral arrangements. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, referral fees also include referral fulfillment fees earned for providing pre-qualified borrower referrals to a third-party partner who separately contracts with a loan originator. The referral fulfillment fee is determined as either of two fixed amounts based on the aggregate origination principal balance of the loan. As such, the third-party partner is our customer in this referral fulfillment arrangement. Payment network fees: We earn payment network fees, which primarily constitute interchange fees from our SoFi Money and SoFi Credit Card products, which are reduced by fees payable to card associations and the issuing bank holding company. These fees are remitted by merchants and are calculated by multiplying a set fee percentage (as stipulated by the debit card payment network) by the transaction volume processed through such network. We arrange for performance by a card association and the bank issuer to enable certain aspects of the SoFi branded transaction card process. We enter into contracts with both parties that establish the shared economics of SoFi branded transaction cards. As we continue to transition our SoFi Money cash management accounts to deposit accounts held at SoFi Bank, we expect to decrease certain fees payable to third parties over time. Enterprise service fees: These fees are earned in connection with services we provide to enterprise partners through our At Work product, such as when we facilitate transactions for the benefit of their employees, such as 529 plan contributions or student loan payments. In the second quarter of 2021, enterprise services also included fees for providing advisory services to an enterprise partner to facilitate reaching a quorum on their shareholder vote. Our fee for these advisory services was a success-based fee for achieving contractually-specified targets. Equity capital markets fees: Equity capital markets fees consist of underwriting fees and dealer fees. Beginning in the second quarter of 2021, we earned underwriting fees related to our membership in underwriting syndicates for IPOs. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, we also earned dealer fees for providing dealer services in partnership with underwriting syndicates for IPOs. We are engaged to place IPO shares that are allocated to us by the underwriters with third-party investors for which we have received a confirmed order. We recognize both types of equity capital markets fees on the applicable trade date. Net interest income: Our SoFi Invest and SoFi Money products also generate net interest income based on the cash balances held in these accounts. Historically, this income has not been a significant portion of our total net revenue. As a bank holding company, we expect to reduce our interest expense as we are able to increasingly use deposit accounts as an alternative and more cost-effective and less interest-rate sensitive source of funding for loans. Additionally, through operating under a national bank charter, we expect to be able to offer a wider range of loan sizes and interest rates through SoFi Bank, which we expect to positively impact our interest income. Competition We compete at multiple levels, including: (i) competition among other personal loan, student loan, credit card and residential mortgage lenders; (ii) competition for money deposits among other banks, some challenger banks and a variety of technology and retail companies; (iii) competition for investment accounts among other introductory brokerage firms and a variety of technology and other companies; (iv) competition for subscribers to financial services content; and (v) competition among other technology platforms for the enterprise services we provide, such as platform-as-a-service through Galileo. Competition to fund prime loans. The prime lending market is highly fragmented and competitive. We face competition from a diverse landscape of consumer lenders, including other banks, credit unions and specialty finance lenders, as well as alternative technology-enabled lenders. Competition to acquire money accounts. Although we now operate a bank, many other banks are larger, have been in business longer and often have greater brand awareness than us. Some large technology and retail companies have large consumer bases and strong balance sheets, which could enhance their competitive ability. Competition to acquire investment brokerage accounts. The leading incumbent brokerage firms are larger, have been in business longer and generally have greater brand awareness than us. We also face competition from neo-brokerage platforms that provide some of the same features as us, such as a mobile brokerage experience and fractional share investing. In addition, technology and other companies have begun to offer some basic investing features and the ability to buy and sell digital assets. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Competition to attract financial services content viewership. There are many sources of financial news in the marketplace, many of which are more established and have a larger subscriber base. Competition for debit and credit card sponsors, particularly some challenger banks who need a platform-as-a-service solution, such as the one provided by Galileo. Generally, these arrangements are multi-year contracts, which require us to spend the necessary resources on implementation and interconnecting new customers onto our platform. We face competition from larger institutions that could make investments into an integrated platform-as-a-service solution, and also undercut our pricing, preventing our current customers from renewing, while also impeding our attempts to acquire new members. Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to drive brand awareness, improve member acquisition efficiency and accelerate our Financial Services Productivity Loop. We attract and retain members through multiple marketing channels, including social media, traditional media such as the press, online affiliations, search engine optimization, search engine marketing, offline partnerships, preapproved direct mailings and television advertising. We continue to optimize our marketing strategy through a focus on our full suite of financial products and iterate on opportunities to accelerate the Financial Services Productivity Loop. Government Supervision and Regulation We are subject to extensive and complex rules and regulations, licensing and examination by various federal, state and local government authorities designed to, among other things, protect depositors, borrowers and customers. The following is a summary of certain aspects of the various statutes and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. This summary is not a comprehensive analysis of all applicable laws, and is qualified by reference to the full text of statutes and regulations referenced below. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA), and SoFi Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC). SoFi Bank Bank Holding Company Regulation. The Federal Reserve has the authority, among other things, to order bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsafe or unsound banking practices; to assess civil money penalties; and to order termination of non-banking activities or termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. Source of Strength. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), we are required to serve as a source of financial strength for SoFi Bank. This means that we may be required to provide capital or liquidity support to SoFi Bank, even at times when we may not have the resources to provide such support to SoFi Bank. Acquisitions and Activities. The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve, from acquiring all or substantially all the assets of a bank, acquiring control of a bank, merging or consolidating with another bank holding company, or acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, the acquiring bank holding company would control more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of such other bank or bank holding company. The BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks. However, a bank holding company may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in activities that the Federal Reserve has determined, by order or regulation, to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. The Company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company pursuant to Section 4(l) of the BHC Act. As a financial holding company, the Company is authorized to engage in a broader set of financial activities than a bank holding company that has not elected to be a treated as a financial holding company, including insurance underwriting and broker-dealer services as well as activities that are jointly determined by the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. Financial holding companies may also engage in activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve to be complementary to financial activities. Financial activities is broadly defined to include not only banking, insurance and securities activities, but also merchant banking and additional activities that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in nature, incidental to such financial activities, or complementary activities that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS If a financial holding company or any depository institution subsidiary of a financial holding company fails to remain well capitalized and well managed, the Federal Reserve may impose such limitations on the conduct or activities of the financial holding company as the Federal Reserve determines to be appropriate, and the company and its affiliates may not commence any new activity or acquire control of shares of any company engaged in any activity that is authorized particularly for financial holding companies without first obtaining the approval of the Federal Reserve. The company must also comply with all applicable Federal Reserve requirements for financial holding companies. If a financial holding company remains out of compliance for 180 days or such longer period as the Federal Reserve permits, the Federal Reserve may require the financial holding company to divest either its insured depository institution or all of its non-banking subsidiaries engaged in activities not permissible for a bank holding company. If an insured depository institution subsidiary of a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory or better record of performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the financial holding company will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities authorized particularly for financial holding companies or acquiring companies engaged in such activities. Limitations on Acquisitions of Our Common Stock. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons acting in concert from acquiring control of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition by a person or group of persons acting in concert of 10% or more of a class of voting securities of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act constitutes the acquisition of control of a bank holding company for purposes of the Change in Bank Control Act. In addition, the BHCA prohibits any company from acquiring control of a bank or bank holding company without first having obtained the approval of the Federal Reserve. Under the BHCA, a company is deemed to control a bank or bank holding company if the company owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25% or more of a class of voting securities of the bank or bank holding company, controls in any manner the election of a majority of directors or trustees of the bank or bank holding company, or the Federal Reserve determines that the company has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank or bank holding company. Under a rebuttable presumption of control established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of control of more than 5% of a class of voting securities of a bank holding company, together with other factors enumerated by the Federal Reserve, could constitute the acquisition of control of a bank holding company under the BHCA. Enhanced Prudential Supervision. SoFi Bank does not currently have $10 billion or more of consolidated assets, but may in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act and other federal banking laws subject companies with $10 billion or more of consolidated assets to additional regulatory requirements. More specifically, among other things, section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which is commonly known as the Durbin Amendment, amended the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to restrict the amount of interchange fees that may be charged and prohibit network exclusivity for debit card transactions, and as such, if we were to become subject to such restriction, it may negatively impact future payment network fees. The restrictions on interchange fees in the Durbin Amendment do not apply to any issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of less than $10 billion. Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, which generally prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in or sponsoring certain types of investment funds, does not apply to an insured depository institution if it, and every company that controls it, has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less and consolidated trading assets and liabilities that are 5% or less of consolidated assets. If SoFi Bank or the Company exceed these thresholds, we would become subject to the Volcker Rule. In addition, section 1025 of the Dodd-Frank Act provides that the CFPB has authority to examine any insured depository institution with total assets of more than $10 billion and any affiliate thereof. Bank Regulation. SoFi Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC. Additionally, the FDIC has secondary supervisory authority as the insurer of SoFi Banks deposits. SoFi Bank is also subject to regulations issued by the CFPB, as enforced by the OCC. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve may directly examine the subsidiaries of the Company, including SoFi Bank. The enforcement powers available to the federal banking regulators include, among other things, the ability to issue cease and desist or removal orders; to terminate insurance of deposits; to assess civil money penalties; to issue directives to increase capital; to place SoFi Bank into receivership; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. Deposit Insurance. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC if the FDIC finds that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. In addition, SoFi Bank is subject to deposit insurance assessments. Activities and Investments of National Banking Associations. National banking associations must comply with the National Bank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the OCC, which generally limit the activities of national banking associations to those that are deemed to be part of, or incidental to, the business of banking. Activities that are part 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS of, or incidental to, the business of banking include taking deposits, borrowing and lending money and discounting or negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt. Subsidiaries of national banking associations generally may only engage in activities permissible for the parent national bank. Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires the OCC to evaluate SoFi Banks performance in helping to meet the credit needs of the entire communities it serves, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with its safe and sound banking operations, and to take this record into consideration when evaluating certain applications. The OCCs CRA regulations are generally based upon objective criteria of the performance of institutions under three key assessment tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institutions record of making loans in its service areas; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institutions record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low- or moderate-income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institutions delivery of services through its branches, ATMs, and other offices. The OCC rates a national banks compliance with the CRA as Outstanding, Satisfactory, Needs to Improve or Substantial Noncompliance. Failure of SoFi Bank to receive at least a Satisfactory rating could inhibit SoFi Bank or the Company from undertaking certain activities, including acquisitions of other financial institutions. Golden Pacific Bank, the predecessor to SoFi Bank, received a Satisfactory rating as of April 1, 2019. Regulatory Capital Requirements. We and SoFi Bank are subject to risk-based capital requirements and rules issued by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The capital rules are intended to reflect the relationship between the banking organizations capital and the degree of risk associated with its operations based on transactions recorded on-balance sheet as well as off-balance sheet items. The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet the minimum capital requirements set forth in the capital rules. These capital requirements are different from, and may be in addition to, those required of SoFi Securities under the SECs Net Capital Rule, as defined below. Safety and Soundness Standards. The FDIA requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to prescribe safety and soundness standards, by regulations or guidelines, as the agencies deem appropriate. Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. In addition, the federal banking agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order restricting asset growth, requiring an institution to increase its ratio of tangible equity to assets or directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDIA. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. Consumer Financial Services Laws and Regulations We are subject to federal and state laws designed to protect consumers and prohibit unfair or deceptive business practices. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must interact with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans and providing other services. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) also has a broad mandate to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices, which can be referred to as UDAAP, and is specifically empowered to require certain disclosures to consumers and draft model disclosure forms. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws and regulations can subject financial institutions to enforcement actions, fines and other penalties. The OCC examines SoFi Bank for compliance with CFPB rules and enforces CFPB rules with respect to SoFi Bank. Truth in Lending Act. The Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and Regulation Z, which implements it, require lenders to provide consumers with uniform, understandable information concerning certain terms and conditions of their loan and credit transactions prior to the consummation of a credit transaction and, in the case of certain education, mortgage, and open-end loans, at the time of a loan solicitation, application, approval, and origination of a credit transaction. TILA also regulates the advertising of credit and gives borrowers, among other things, certain rights regarding updated disclosures and periodic statements, security interests taken to secure the credit, the right to rescind certain loan transactions, a right to an investigation 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS and resolution of billing errors, and the treatment of credit balances. For certain types of credit transactions, lenders are not permitted to originate loans with certain high-risk features, such as negative amortization and balloon payments, and must provide certain consumer protections during the underwriting and origination process, such as providing a right to an appraisal of mortgaged property, and verifying the consumers ability to repay the loan prior to making a decision to approve an application for the loan. Private Education Lenders must provide multiple disclosures to applicants under TILA and must provide applicants with 30 days in which to accept or reject a loan offer as well as the right to rescind the loan transaction for three days following receipt of the Final TILA disclosure. Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) and Regulation X, which implements it, require certain disclosures to be made to the borrower at application, as to the lenders good faith estimate of loan origination costs, and at closing with respect to the real estate settlement statement; apply to certain loan servicing practices including escrow accounts, member complaints, servicing transfers, lender-placed insurance, error resolution and loss mitigation. RESPA also prohibits giving or accepting any fee, kickback or a thing of value for the referral of real estate settlement services, and giving or accepting any portion of any fee charged for rendering a real estate settlement service other than for services actually performed. To the extent that a lender makes or receives a referral to an affiliate, with whom it has an affiliated business arrangement, for settlement services, RESPA requires a disclosure of the affiliation to the person whose business is referred. For most home loans, the time of application (loan estimate) and time of loan closing disclosure requirements for RESPA and TILA have been combined into integrated disclosures under the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure rule. Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, marital status, the fact that all or part of the applicants income derives from any public assistance program or the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the federal Consumer Credit Protection Act or any applicable state law. Regulation B, which implements ECOA, restricts creditors from requesting certain types of information from loan applicants and from using advertising or making statements that would discourage on a prohibited basis a reasonable person from making or pursuing an application. ECOA also requires creditors to provide consumers and certain small businesses with timely responses to applications for credit, including notices of adverse action taken on credit applications. Fair Housing Act. The federal Fair Housing Act (FHA) applies to credit related to housing and prohibits discrimination on the basis of race or color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status, and handicap. The FHA prohibits discrimination in advertising regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling, which includes mortgage credit discrimination. The FHA may place restrictions on a creditors targeted marketing strategies, due to the risk that such strategies may increase a creditors fair lending risk. Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. The federal Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) requires lenders to collect, report, and disclose certain information about their mortgage lending activity to the CFPB. Much of the data reported pursuant to HMDA is made public and can be used by regulators and third parties to ascertain information about our mortgage lending activity. Regulators and litigants may use the data to make inferences about our compliance with ECOA, FHA, and similar anti-discrimination laws. Effective in 2018, the CFPB issued a final rule which greatly expanded the amount of data that mortgage lenders are required to collect and report under HMDA. The CFPB has proposed and is expected to issue another final rule amending HMDA. Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act. We employ and contract with mortgage loan originators which are required by state and federal law to be licensed as mortgage loan originators in the relevant jurisdictions where they operate. To obtain and maintain licensure, the mortgage loan originator must meet the minimum education, experience, and character requirements set forth by the relevant states law, and periodically renew their licenses. We may not be permitted to employ, take applications from, or originate loans processed by mortgage loan originators who fail to maintain a license in good standing in each relevant jurisdiction. Fair Credit Reporting Act. The federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA), promotes the accuracy, fairness and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies. FCRA requires a permissible purpose to obtain a consumer credit report and requires persons that furnish loan payment information to credit bureaus to report such information accurately. FCRA also imposes disclosure requirements on creditors who take adverse action on credit applications based on information contained in a consumer report or received from a third party and requires creditors who use consumer reports in establishing loan terms to provide risk-based pricing or credit score notices to affected consumers. The FCRA also imposes rules and disclosure requirements on creditors use of consumer reports for marketing purposes, which impacts our ability to use consumer reports and prescreened lists to market consumer loans through direct mail and other means. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) provides guidelines and limitations on the conduct of third-party debt collectors in connection with the collection of consumer debts. The FDCPA limits certain communications with third parties, imposes notice and debt validation requirements, and prohibits threatening, harassing or abusive conduct in the course of debt collection. While the FDCPA applies to third-party debt collectors, debt collection and loan servicing laws of certain states impose similar requirements on creditors who collect their own debts or contract with third parties to collect their debts. In addition, the CFPB prohibits UDAAP in debt collection, including first-party debt collection. The CFPBs Regulation F, which implements the FDCPA, addresses communications in connection with debt collection, interprets and applies prohibitions on harassment or abuse, false or misleading representations, and unfair practices in debt collection, and clarifies requirements for certain consumer-facing debt collection disclosures. Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. The federal Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) allows military members to suspend or postpone certain civil obligations so that the military member can devote his or her full attention to military duties. The SCRA requires us to adjust the interest rate of borrowers who qualify for and request relief. The SCRA also places limitations on remedies that may otherwise be available to a creditor, such as foreclosures and default judgments. Military Lending Act. The Military Lending Act (MLA) restricts, among other things, the interest rate and other terms that can be offered to active military personnel and their dependents. The MLA caps the interest rate that may be offered to a covered borrower for most types of consumer credit to a 36% military annual percentage rate, or MAPR, which includes certain fees such as application fees, participation fees and fees for add-on products. The MLA also requires certain disclosures and prohibits certain terms, such as mandatory arbitration if a dispute arises concerning the consumer credit product. Electronic Fund Transfer Act and NACHA Rules. The federal Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) and Regulation E that implements it provide guidelines and restrictions on the provision of electronic fund transfer services to consumers, and on making an electronic transfer of funds from consumers bank accounts. In addition, transfers performed by ACH electronic transfers are subject to detailed timing and notification rules and guidelines administered by the National Automated Clearinghouse Association (NACHA). Most transfers of funds in connection with the origination and repayment of loans are performed by electronic fund transfers, such as ACH transfers. We obtain necessary electronic authorization from borrowers and investors for such transfers in compliance with such rules. EFTA requires that lenders make available loan payment methods other than automatic preauthorized electronic fund transfers, and prohibits lenders from conditioning the approval of a loan transaction on the borrowers agreement to repay the loan through automatic fund transfers. Recently, the NACHA Board of Directors approved a change in the NACHA Operating Rules that requires ACH Originators to perform account validation as part of their commercially reasonable fraudulent transaction detection systems. Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act/Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. The federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN), and similar state laws, particularly the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (UETA), authorize the creation of legally binding and enforceable agreements utilizing electronic records and signatures. ESIGN and UETA require businesses that want to use electronic records or signatures in consumer transactions and to provide electronic disclosures and other electronic communications to consumers, to obtain the consumers consent to receive information electronically. Bank Secrecy Act . We have implemented various anti-money laundering policies and procedures to comply with applicable federal anti-money laundering laws, regulations and requirements, such as designating a Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) officer, conducting an annual risk assessment, developing internal controls, independent testing, training, and suspicious activity monitoring and reporting. We apply the customer identification and verification program rules pursuant to the USA PATRIOT Act amendments to the BSA and its implementing regulations and screen certain customer information against the list of specially designated nationals and other lists of sanctioned countries, persons, and entities maintained by the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Additionally, SoFi Digital Assets, LLC is registered with and regulated by FinCEN as a money services business (MSB) with respect to its digital assets business activities. As an MSB, we are subject to FinCEN regulations implementing the BSA, which requires MSBs to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records, among other requirements. Similarly, SoFi Bank is a financial institution under the BSA that is required to implement a risk-based anti-money laundering program, including customer identification procedures, currency transaction reporting, suspicious activity monitoring and reporting and other recordkeeping requirements. In addition, our contracts with financial institution partners and other third parties may contractually require us to maintain an anti-money laundering program. Office of Foreign Assets Control. The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These sanctions, which are administered by OFAC, take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial or other transactions relating to a sanctioned country or with certain designated persons and entities; (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons); and (iii) restrictions on transactions with or involving certain persons or entities. Blocked assets (for example, property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the Company. Loan Servicing. With respect to our private education loan business, we are subject to the CFPBs rule that enables it to supervise certain non-bank student loan servicers that service more than one million borrower accounts. The rule covers servicers of both federal and private education loans and is designed to ensure that bank and non-bank servicers follow the same rules in the student loan servicing market. We are impacted by the rule because we have engaged the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority (MOHELA) to service our private education loans. MOHELA currently services more than one million student loan borrower accounts. In addition, for so long as SoFi Lending Corp. acts as servicer of any of our private education loans, we are subject to certain state licensing requirements applicable to loan servicers even though we have engaged MOHELA to service our private education loans, as we retain master servicing rights. With respect to our broader consumer loan business, we are subject to federal and state laws regulating loan servicers. We are impacted by these rules even though we service loans we originate, and engage third parties like MOHELA to service certain types of loans, because some state laws, such as the California Rosenthal Act, apply to creditors and first party servicers. Some state laws also apply to parties that indirectly service loans through the use of third-party servicer contracts. Additionally, we sell some of the loans we originate to third parties and are therefore subject to laws governing parties that service loans on behalf of another person to whom the debt is owed. We are currently licensed as a loan servicer in several states and may be required to seek additional licenses. If we seek additional licenses, a state may impose fines, restrict our activity in that state, or seek other relief for activity conducted prior to the issuance of a license. For example, in 2019, we entered into a consent order with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, requiring us to pay a civil fine for conducting mortgage servicing activity as a master servicer before we obtained a mortgage servicing license in Pennsylvania. Other State Lending and Money Transmission Laws. SoFi Lending Corp. will continue to service and, for an interim period, originate certain of our loans, and our money transmission activities will continue to be provided by SoFi Digital Assets. Consequently, in addition to applicable federal laws and regulations governing our operations, our ability to originate and service loans through SoFi Lending Corp. in any particular state, and transmit money to or from any particular state, is subject to that states laws, regulations and licensing requirements, which may differ from the laws, regulations and licensing requirements of other states. State laws often include fee limitations and disclosure and other requirements. Many states have adopted lending regulations that prohibit various forms of high-risk or sub-prime lending and place obligations on lenders to substantiate that a member will derive a tangible benefit from the proposed credit transaction and/or have the ability to repay the loan. These laws have required most lenders to devote considerable resources to building and maintaining automated systems to perform loan-by-loan analysis of points, fees and other factors set forth in the laws, which often vary depending on the location of the mortgaged property. Many of these state lending and money transmitter laws are vague and subject to differing interpretation, which exposes us to some risks. The number and complexity of these laws, and vagaries in their interpretations, present compliance and litigation risks from inadvertent error and omissions which we may not be able to eliminate from our operations or activities. The laws, regulations and rules described above are subject to legislative, administrative and judicial interpretation, and some of these laws and regulations have been infrequently interpreted or only recently enacted. Infrequent interpretations of these laws and regulations or an insignificant number of interpretations of recently-enacted laws and regulations can result in ambiguity with respect to permitted conduct under these laws and regulations. Any ambiguity under the laws and regulations to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations or enforcement actions and private causes of action, such as class-action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Risk Retention Regulations. Our balance sheet is impacted by the risk retention regulations adopted by the SEC that became effective for non-mortgage securitizations in 2016. These rules require issuers of asset-backed securities or persons who organize and initiate asset-backed securities transactions to retain a portion of the underlying assets credit risk. Marketing Regulations. Our marketing and other business practices are subject to federal and state regulation and our expansion into new product offerings, including digital assets and exchange-traded funds under the SoFi Invest product, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. For example, we and the FTC entered the FTC Consent Order regarding savings calculations in our student loan refinancing advertisements. In addition, we are subject to the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), which regulates, among other things (a) the use of automated telephone dialing systems to make certain calls or text messages to cellphones without prior consent and (b) certain calls and text messages to numbers properly registered on the federal do not call list without permission or an established business relationship, and the Federal CAN-SPAM 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Act and the Telemarketing Sales Rule, and analogous state laws, to the extent that we market credit or other products and services by use of email or telephone marketing. Bankruptcy Laws. We are subject to the United States Bankruptcy Code, which limits the extent to which creditors may seek to enforce debts against parties who have filed for bankruptcy protection. In the event of a bank holding companys bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a bank subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Federal and State Securities Laws . We offer the securities issued in our sponsored securitizations only to, or for the account or benefit of, qualified institutional buyers (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) in compliance with Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside of the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. The securities issued in the securitizations that we sponsor are not registered under the Securities Act or registered or qualified under any state securities laws. We do not offer securitized products to retail investors. We receive opinions from legal counsel for each securitization confirming that the relevant issuing entity is not required to register under the Investment Company Act in reliance on the exclusion available under Rule 3a-7 of the Investment Company Act, although other exemptions or exceptions may also be available. SoFi Invest and SoFi Money. We offer investment management services through SoFi Wealth LLC, an internet-based investment adviser and SoFi Capital Advisors, LLC, which sponsors private investment funds that invest in asset-backed securitizations. Both SoFi Wealth LLC and SoFi Capital Advisors, LLC are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the Advisers Act), and are subject to regulation by the SEC. SoFi Securities is an affiliated registered broker-dealer and FINRA member, and SoFi Digital Assets, LLC is a FinCEN registered money service business that also holds money transmitter or money service licenses in a majority of states and the District of Columbia. We offer cash management accounts, which are brokerage products, through SoFi Securities. The investment advisers are subject to the anti-fraud provisions of the Advisers Act and to fiduciary duties derived from these provisions, which apply to our relationships with our advisory members, including the funds we manage. These provisions and duties impose restrictions and obligations on us with respect to our dealings with our members, fund investors and our investments, including, for example, restrictions on transactions with our affiliates. Our investment advisers and our broker-dealer have in the past been, and will in the future be, subject to periodic Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) examinations. Our investment advisers and our broker-dealer are also subject to other requirements under the Advisers Act and the Exchange Act, respectively, and related regulations. These additional requirements relate to matters including maintaining effective and comprehensive compliance programs, record-keeping and reporting and disclosure requirements. The Advisers Act and the Exchange Act generally grants the SEC broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict an investment adviser or our broker-dealer from conducting advisory or brokerage activities, respectively, in the event they fail to comply with federal securities laws. Additional sanctions that may be imposed for failure to comply with applicable requirements include the prohibition of individuals from associating with an investment adviser or broker-dealer, the revocation of registrations and other censures and fines. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator was small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing members or fail to gain new members. SoFi Securities is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act, the SEC Net Capital Rule, which requires the maintenance of minimum levels of net capital. The SEC Net Capital Rule is designed to protect members, counterparties, and creditors by requiring a broker-dealer to have sufficient liquid resources available to satisfy its financial obligations. Net capital is a measure of a broker-dealers readily available liquid assets, reduced by its total liabilities (other than approved subordinated debt). Among other things, the SEC Net Capital Rule requires that a broker-dealer provide notice to the SEC and FINRA if its net capital is below certain required levels. There are also certain early warning requirements that apply. Our affiliates operating outside the United States may also be subject to other regulatory capital requirements imposed by non-U.S. regulatory authorities. SoFi Securities is an introducing broker that does not carry customer security accounts; rather, customer security accounts are carried by an unaffiliated broker-dealer that also clears transactions for these accounts and maintains segregated cash and investments pursuant to Rule 15c3-3 under the Exchange Act (the Customer Protection Rule). SoFi Securities carries customer cash accounts (related to SoFi Money) that are subject to the Customer Protection Rule. FINRA has adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to sales practices, registration of personnel, compliance and supervision, and compensation and disclosure, to which SoFi Securities and its personnel are subject. FINRA and the SEC 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS also have the authority to conduct periodic examinations of SoFi Securities, and may also conduct administrative proceedings, and have the authority to levy fines and other penalties on SoFi Securities. SoFi Securities is registered with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and subject to the MSRBs regulatory regime, including applicable MSRB rules. SoFi Securities is a Participant of DTC and therefore is subject to DTCs regulatory regime, including applicable DTC rules and bylaws. Moreover, through SoFi Securities, we are licensed to underwrite securities offerings and have served as a firm commitment underwriter of registered equity securities offerings on five offerings, and as selling agent on two registered equity securities offerings. State Licensing Requirements One or more of our subsidiaries may need, and have obtained, one or more state licenses to broker, acquire, service and/or enforce loans, and to engage in money transmitter activities. Where we have obtained licenses, state licensing statutes may impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on us, including: record-keeping requirements; restrictions on servicing and collection practices, including limits on finance charges and fees; restrictions on collections; usury rate caps; restrictions on permissible terms in consumer agreements; disclosure requirements; examination requirements; surety bond and minimum net worth requirements; permissible investment requirements; financial reporting requirements; annual or biennial activity reporting and license renewal requirements; notification and approval requirements for changes in principal officers, directors, stock ownership or corporate control; restrictions on marketing and advertising; qualified individual requirements; anti-money laundering and compliance program requirements; data security and privacy requirements; and review requirements for loan forms and other customer-facing documents. These statutes may also subject us to the supervisory and examination authority of state regulators in certain cases, and we have experienced, are currently and will likely continue to be subject to and experience exams by state regulators. These examinations have and may continue to result in findings or recommendations that require us to modify our internal controls and/or business practices. If we are found to have engaged in activities that require a state license without having the requisite license, the licensing authority may impose fines, impose restrictions on our operations in the relevant state, or seek other remedies for activities conducted in the state. Regulation of Other Activities Through SoFi Protect, we offer members access to life insurance, auto insurance, homeowners insurance and renters insurance through Social Finance Life Insurance Agency LLC and its licensed agents, which are subject to state insurance, insurance brokering and insurance agency statutes and regulations. Privacy and Consumer Information Security In the ordinary course of our business, we access, collect, store, use, transmit and otherwise process certain types of data, including PII, which subjects us to certain federal and state privacy and information security laws, rules, industry 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS standards and regulations designed to regulate consumer information and data privacy, security and protection, and mitigate identity theft. These laws impose obligations with respect to the collection, processing, storage, disposal, use, transfer, retention and disclosure of PII, and, with limited exceptions, give consumers the right to prevent use of their PII and disclosure of it to third parties. The GLBA requires us to disclose certain information sharing practices to consumers, and any subsequent changes to such practices, and provide an opportunity for consumers to opt out of certain sharing of their PII. This may limit our ability to share PII with third parties for certain purposes, such as marketing. In addition, the CFPB is expected to issue a new rule regulating the disclosure of consumer information, which may limit our ability to receive or use PII and other consumer information and records supplied by third parties, or share information with third parties. Further, all 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted data breach notification laws that impose, in varying degrees, an obligation to notify affected individuals and government authorities in the event of a data or security breach or compromise, including when a consumers PII has or may have been accessed by an unauthorized person. These laws may also require us to notify relevant law enforcement, regulators or consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach. Some laws may also impose physical and electronic security requirements regarding the safeguarding of PII. On January 1, 2020, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) took effect, directly impacting our California business operations and indirectly impacting our operations nationwide. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. While personal information that we process that is subject to the GLBA is exempt from the CCPA, the CCPA regulates other personal information that we collect and process in connection with the business. A new California ballot initiative, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), was passed in November 2020. Effective starting on January 1, 2023, the CPRA imposes additional obligations on companies covered by the legislation and will significantly modify the CCPA, including by expanding consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also creates a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. Some observers have noted that the CCPA and CPRA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the U.S., which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. For example, on March 2, 2021, Virginia enacted the Consumer Data Protection Act (the CDPA) and, on July 8, 2021, Colorados governor signed the Colorado Privacy Act (CPA) into law. The CDPA and the CPA will both become effective January 1, 2023. While the CDPA and CPA incorporate many similar concepts of the CCPA and CPRA, there are also several key differences in the scope, application, and enforcement of the laws that will change the operational practices of regulated businesses. The new laws will, among other things, impact how regulated businesses collect and process personal sensitive data, conduct data protection assessments, transfer personal data to affiliates, and respond to consumer rights requests. Certain other state laws impose similar privacy obligations and, in many others, lawmakers have proposed laws that would be similar to the CCPA or CPRA. We anticipate that more states may enact comprehensive privacy legislation, which provides consumers with new privacy rights and increases the privacy and security obligations of entities handling certain personal information of such consumers. These proposals, if enacted, may add complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk, require additional investment of resources in compliance programs, impact strategies and the availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies. The existence of comprehensive privacy laws in different states in the country would make our compliance obligations more complex and costly and may increase the likelihood that we may be subject to enforcement actions or otherwise incur liability for noncompliance. Our broker-dealer and investment advisers are subject to SEC Regulation S-P, which requires that these businesses maintain policies and procedures addressing the protection of customer information and records. This includes protecting against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of customer records and information and against unauthorized access to or use of customer records or information. Regulation S-P also requires these businesses to provide initial and annual privacy notices to customers describing information sharing policies and informing customers of their rights. Intellectual Property We seek to protect our intellectual property by relying on a combination of federal, state and common law in the United States, as well as on contractual measures. We use a variety of measures, such as trademarks, trade secrets and, with respect to Galileo, patents, to protect our intellectual property. We also place appropriate restrictions on our proprietary information to control access and prevent unauthorized disclosures, a key part of our broader risk management strategy. We have registered several trademarks related to our name, SoFi, as well as SoFis logo, our company motto Get Your Money Right and certain SoFi products, such as SoFi Money and SoFi Invest, and the names of our affiliated 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS entities. We believe our name, logo, motto and products are important brand identifiers for our members and enterprise partners. In addition, Galileo has been granted eight patents. Our Culture We believe building a durable culture will be a key determinate in our ability to help our members get their money right and ultimately to achieve our mission. Creating great culture is a journey, not a destination. We challenge our employees to integrate each distinct SoFi value enumerated below into their work. Human Capital Resources Our number one Company priority is building a durable culture of diversity, where people love where they work in alignment with our core values. Our resulting initiatives are designed to support, develop and inspire our employees, which in turn we believe will ultimately unlock the potential of the organization, drive excellence across the business and solidify SoFi as a top career destination where people love to work. We have established the following guiding principles to help us achieve our goals: Embodying SoFis values across the entire organization to ensure everyone feels welcome, included and able to contribute; Integrating a diversity, equity and inclusion lens into everything we do; Guiding team members regarding where they are and where they are going and giving them the tools and resources to get there; Supporting managers to become effective people leaders; Taking a principled approach to providing fair, relevant and competitive compensation and benefits to a dynamic workforce with diverse needs; and Leveraging data to better understand the employee experience, measure our success and innovate as needed. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Part of what makes SoFi a dynamic place to work is our commitment to living our core values, one of which is to embrace diversity. A diverse workforce enables us to collaborate, create and, ultimately, accomplish our mission of helping people achieve financial independence. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) objective is to create a company culture where every employee feels like they genuinely belong, are respected and valued, and can do their best work. In addition to this being ingrained within our culture, we also see it as a competitive advantage. To showcase our commitment to DE&I, we launched a new DE&I site in December 2021 that features our ambitious goals to improve representation and the programs we have in place to meet and exceed these goals to both hold ourselves accountable and make this information easily accessible to the public. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS As of January 1, 2022, 41% of our global workforce was comprised of employees who identify as female and 54% of our United States-based workforce was comprised of individuals who identify as part of an underrepresented group (URG). We are committed to increasing our total population of URGs to 60% by the end of 2023. Individuals who identify with a URG represent 47% of our full-time senior leadership positions (defined as people-manager and above) and 66% of our executive workforce. We are increasing our goal of URGs in senior leadership positions to 50% by the end of 2023. To help achieve these goals, we will focus on attraction, assessment, engagement and development at all levels. This means that we will ensure fair and transparent processes in talent assessment and hiring, performance management, career progression and retention across all stages of the employee lifecycle. As a foundation to this work, we have developed competency-based assessments for roles in marketing, operations and engineering to reduce unconscious biases in both our hiring and promotion practices. We have also invested in formalizing a university hiring program and returning military program to ensure we are bringing in talent at all levels of the Company. We are also working to create a stronger sense of inclusion and belonging for our employees in general with a lens on representation. We launched a targeted mentorship program for our URG population called SoFi GROW. We also work with our offices in Mexico City and Hong Kong to work to ensure our employees have access to our Employee Resource Groups (called SoFi Circles, some of which are further described below), and that we are taking into consideration local and regional differences as it pertains to DE&I. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS The four key focus areas and associated programs outlined below enable us to create and sustain a culture where everyone feels valued, heard and has equal opportunity to thrive. Goals Programs Enablement, Awareness and Education: Create awareness around how social identities contribute to our professional environment and our success Expanded voluntary, confidential Employee Self Identification to include LGBTQ, Persons with a disability, and Veterans Mandatory employee trainings : Unconscious Bias, Building an Inclusive Culture, and Hiring the SoFi Way Manager onboarding training with a focus on managing for inclusion and development Access, Development and Network: Develop a connected workforce with high job satisfaction and engagement, and provide our allies with leadership development opportunities SoFi Circles: Internal groups that identify through a common identity that builds community and empowerment for our employees SoFi Grow URM Internal Mentorship Program: Seeks to inspire and elevate our most underrepresented communities at SoFi by fostering professional development and accelerating the path for allies to take action Explorer Program: Six-month development program designed to help our hourly operations employees learn new skills and promote internal mobility Manager onboarding program: Designed to provide new managers at SoFi with the tools and resources they need to create a supportive, inclusive work environment where their team can do their best work The Embracing Diversity Podcast: Monthly podcast to inform our broader SoFi community on important topics that aim to embrace inclusivity, belonging and awareness Fairness and Clarity in Processes: Actively attempt to mitigate unconscious and conscious bias in the hiring process and in annual performance calibrations by working to ensure the processes are objective and inclusive Competency-based interviewing: Anchor our interview process to identify success competencies associated with each role versus informal interviews Mandatory employee trainings: Manage the SoFi Way (for employees), Unconscious Bias (for all hiring teams), Managing within the Law (for people managers) and Bystander Intervention and Prevention (for all employees) Regular reviews of employee data to help ensure fairness in our development and compensation processes Partnering with national military organizations and universities to increase the diversity of our applicant pool Accelerated Increase in Representation: We foster attraction, engagement and retention of underrepresented employees by increasing external brand awareness and supporting SoFi employee career development Increase accessibility and visibility of jobs by partnering with organizations like Diversity Jobs, Fairygodboss and Talenya. Work towards the goal of having, by 2023, 20% of our incoming workforce comprised of early career seekers with a focus on veterans and underrepresented minorities from university programs Cultivate career development for employees through SoFi Grow mentorship and Explorer programs, as well as Meet our SoFi-ety initiative, where we can meet our employees who are part of these programs, and see how they are learning, growing and helping to transform the Fintech industry We believe that a combination of these approaches will help increase the representation, engagement and retention of women, Black, Latinx, and all employees who identify as being from a URG across all levels, roles and business groups. In order to stay accountable to our DE&I goals, we have expanded our accountability metrics to include retention, promotion and engagement alongside hiring, and we aim to review these practices with each business leader quarterly to monitor progress. We actively track our self-reported URG/URM hiring rates against the total addressable market, the rate of our promotions of this population against their dominant peer groups rate, as well as the rate of attrition, to monitor and try to help ensure we are not disproportionately losing URG/URM at a faster rate than our peer group. Training and Manager Excellence We believe strongly in investing in our employees and this is a focus throughout the employee lifecycle. Great care is taken to onboard new hires and set them up for success, both in terms of a broad understanding of SoFis mission, values, strategic point of differentiation and products, as well as role-specific learning. To this end, throughout the year we offer ongoing learnings, including: weekly company-level All Hands meetings, monthly programming on a diverse range of topics 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS spanning general business updates to developmental topics, such as financial and personal wellness, and other opportunities for learning from internal and external speakers. To enable continuous learning, we have deployed an online training platform, which offers thousands of courses and training sessions, ranging from skill development to manager resources. The training sessions consist of live training, speakers, and targeted learning content. We also offer ongoing learning opportunities for our people managers to ensure they are well equipped to support their employees. In addition to training on our compensation philosophy and tools, manager effectiveness and other basic ongoing processes administered by the People team, we also employ a seven-week manager onboarding program. This program covers a variety of topics, including DE&I, how to give effective feedback, a recruiting overview and best practices and various other components to set new leaders at SoFi up for success. Within our online training platform, we developed a manager excellence series, ranging over 22 identified competencies. Compensation Our compensation programs are designed to attract, retain and motivate talented, deeply qualified and committed individuals who believe in our mission, while rewarding employees for long-term value creation. We have a pay-for-performance culture in which employee compensation is aligned to Company performance, as well as individual contributions and impact. Our equity program aligns employee compensation to the long-term interests of our shareholders, while encouraging them to think and act like owners. As we continue to evolve our programs and practices, we strive for a fair, competitive, transparent and equitable approach in recognizing and rewarding our employees. Employee Benefits The health and wellness of our employees and their families is integral to SoFis success. We have a comprehensive benefits program to support the physical, mental and financial well-being of our employees. We have one core medical plan in which SoFi pays 100% of the monthly premium and three additional medical plans with premiums that are significantly subsidized. In addition to core medical, we offer fertility and maternity benefits to help employees who are looking to grow their family, a paid parental leave benefit, as well as a partially subsidized back-up family care benefit. To support the mental health of our employees, we offer a digital benefit that allows our employees to meet with coaches and clinical care providers at no cost to them. Our tuition reimbursement and student loan repayment programs provide financial support to our employees that allows them to advance their education and pay off existing student loan debt. Our benefits package also includes, among other things, basic life insurance and supplemental life insurance, short-term and long-term disability insurance, a Section 401(k) retirement savings plan, and competitive paid time off. Additionally, in February 2022, we announced the launch of SoFi Gives, a benefit that provides eligible employees with paid time off to engage in volunteer opportunities within their community. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we transitioned to a flexible-first workforce model that not only puts the health and safety of our employees first, but also takes into account what our employees need to be successful. We now offer all of our employees the choice of working full time in the office, a hybrid approach, or full-time remote. Coming into the office remains 100% voluntary, unless a persons role requires them to be on site to do their job. Additionally, to support our employees through these challenging times, we introduced additional programs focused on childcare as well as support specific to balancing the demands of work and personal family needs. An additional benefit that came out of this was the introduction of SoFridays, where exempt employees are encouraged to end their work week at 2:00 pm local time each Friday. While this started in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, it will continue as a permanent benefit moving forward. Employees As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 2,500 employees, of which approximately 97% were located in the United States and 3% were located internationally. None of our employees is currently represented by a labor union or has terms of employment that are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be very strong and have not historically experienced any work stoppages. Additional Information Additional information about SoFi is available on our corporate website at https://www.sofi.com, as well as SoFis Investor Relations website at https://investors.sofi.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including financial and other material information. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3 and 4, as well as other filings and any 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS amendments to these documents, as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports can also be found on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. The content of any websites referred to in this report is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our company and our business, y ou should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects, in which case the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Unless otherwise indicated, reference in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to our business being adversely affected, negatively impacted or harmed will include an adverse effect on, or a negative impact or harm to, our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, revenue or our future prospects. The material and other risks and uncertainties summarized in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and described below are not intended to be exhaustive and are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including the risks described below. See the section titled Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, which illuminate challenges that we face in connection with the successful implementation of our strategy and the growth of our business. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. These risks are discussed more fully below and include, but are not limited to, risks related to: Risks related to Business, Financial and Operational Risks our ability to successfully identify and address the risks and uncertainties we face; demands on our resources, intense and increasing competition, and success of our business model (including future profitability); legislative and regulatory policies and related actions that apply or may apply to us, particularly in connection with student loans or as a result of our acquisition of SoFi Bank; loss of one or more significant purchasers of our loans; impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including regulatory responses and economic uncertainty; Risks related to Strategic and New Products Risks potential and recent acquisitions that could require significant attention, disrupt our business and adversely affect our financials; failure to innovate or respond to evolving technological or other changes; an increase in fraudulent activity; failure of third party service providers or systems on which we rely; increased business, economic and regulatory risks from continued expansion abroad; Risks related to Credit Risks worsening economic conditions, the cyclical nature of our industry and ability to maintain expected levels of liquidity; inability to make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates; the discharge of student loans in certain circumstances; failure of a third-party service provider to perform various functions related to the origination and servicing of loans; risk of litigation by consumers related to non-qualified home loans; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks related to Market and Interest Rate Risks cost and availability of funding in the capital markets and fluctuations in interest rates; higher than expected payment speeds of loans or longer holding periods of loans could negatively impact our returns; transition away from the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as a benchmark reference and financial risks that cannot be eliminated by our hedging activities, which carry their own risks; Risks related to Funding and Liquidity Risks ability to retain, increase or secure new or alternative financing; termination of one or more of our warehouse facilities on which we are highly dependent; increases in member loan default rates or possibility of being required to repurchase loans or indemnify the purchaser of our loans; ability to finance the receivables that we originate or other assets that we hold; Risks related to Regulatory, Tax and Other Legal Risks exposure to evolving laws, rules, regulations and government enforcement policies and potential enforcement actions, litigation, investigations, exams or inquiries or impairment of licenses; ability to effectively mitigate risk exposure; changes in business, economic or political conditions; failure to comply with laws and regulations, including anti-corruption or privacy laws; application of regulations and supervision under banking laws; ability to efficiently protect our intellectual property rights; failure to comply with open source licenses for open source software included in our platform; the risk that we are, or any of our subsidiaries is, determined to have been subject to registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; Risks related to Personnel and Business Continuity Risks loss of key management members or key employees, or an inability to hire key personnel; increased business continuity and cyber risks due to our primarily remote workforce; natural disasters, power outages, telecommunications failures, man-made problems and similar; employee misconduct; Risks related to Risk Management and Financial Reporting Risks ability to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and risk management processes and procedures; changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; as a result of our business combination with a special purpose acquisition company, regulatory obligations may impact us differently than other publicly traded companies; incorrect estimates or assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of our financial statements; Risks related to Information Technology and Data Risks breach or violation of law by a third party on which we depend; cyberattacks and other security breaches or disruptions of our systems or third-party systems on which we rely, including disruptions that may impact our ability to collect loan payments and maintain accurate accounts; liabilities related to the collection, processing, use, storage and transmission of personal data; Risks related to Ownership of Our Securities volatility in the price of our common stock and future dilution of our stockholders; possibility of securities litigation, which is expensive and time consuming; and failure to comply with Nasdaq continued listing standards. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Business, Financial and Operational Risks We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, and have limited experience in parts of our Financial Services and Technology Platform segments, which may make it difficult for us to successfully identify and address the risks and uncertainties we face. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry, and have limited experience in parts of our Financial Services and Technology Platform segments, which may make it difficult to identify risks to our business and evaluate our future prospects. In particular, we have limited experience offering cash management, investment services and technology solutions. In the first quarter of 2022, we acquired a bank charter and face risks as a result of our lack of experience operating a bank and as a bank holding company. We face numerous challenges to our success, including our ability to: increase or maintain the number, volume and types of, and add new features to, the loans we extend to our members as the market for loans evolves and as we face new and increasing competitive threats; increase the number of members utilizing non-lending products, including our direct deposit feature, and maintain and build on the loyalty of existing members by increasing their use of new or additional products; successfully maintain and enhance our diversified funding strategy, including through securitization financing from consolidated and nonconsolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), whole loan sales and debt warehouse facilities; further establish, diversify and refine our cash management, investment and brokerage offerings to meet evolving consumer needs and preferences; diversify our revenue streams across our products and services; favorably compete with other companies, including traditional and alternative technology-enabled lenders, financial service providers, broker dealers, and technology platform-as-a-service providers; realize the benefits of operating a bank; introduce new products or other offerings to meet the needs of our existing and prospective members or to keep pace with competitive lending, cash management, investment and other developments; maintain or increase the effectiveness of our direct marketing, and other sales and marketing efforts; successfully navigate economic conditions and fluctuations in the credit markets; establish fraud prevention strategies that proactively identify threat vectors and mitigate losses; defend our platform from information security vulnerabilities, cyberattacks or malicious attacks; effectively manage the growth of our business; effectively manage our expenses; obtain debt or equity capital on attractive terms or at all; successfully continue to expand internationally; adequately respond to macroeconomic and other exogenous challenges, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; and anticipate and react to changes in an evolving regulatory and political environment. We may not be able to successfully address the risks and uncertainties we face, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. We have a history of losses, may not achieve profitability in the future and there is no assurance that our revenue and business model will be successful. Our net losses were $483.9 million, $224.1 million and $239.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We may continue to incur net losses in the future, and such losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We will need to generate and sustain significant revenues for our business generally, and achieve greater scale and generate greater operating cash flows from our Financial Services segment, in particular, in future periods, in order to achieve, maintain or increase our level of profitability. We intend to continue to invest in sales and marketing, technology, and new products and services in order to enhance our brand recognition and our value proposition to our members, and these additional costs will create further challenges to generating near term profitability. Our general and administrative expenses have also increased, and we expect they may continue to increase to meet the increased compliance and other requirements associated with operating as a public company, acquiring a bank and operating a bank, and evolving regulatory requirements. See We recently acquired a national bank, which subjects us to significant additional regulation . 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are continually refining our revenue and business model, which is premised on creating a virtuous cycle for our members to engage in more products across our platform, a strategy we refer to as the Financial Services Productivity Loop. There is no assurance that our revenue and business model or any changes to our revenue and business model to better compete with our competitors will be successful. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to offset our higher operating expenses. We may continue to incur losses and not achieve future profitability or, if achieved, be unable to maintain such profitability, due to a number of reasons, including the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, including through the addition of new lines of business, which may place significant demands on our operational, risk management, sales and marketing, technology, compliance, and finance and accounting resources. Our rapid growth in certain areas of our business in recent years, primarily within our Financial Services and Technology Platform segments, has placed significant demands on our operational, risk management, sales and marketing, technology, compliance, and finance and accounting infrastructure, and has resulted in increased expenses, a trend that we expect to continue as our business grows. In addition, we are required to continuously develop and adapt our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the consumer financial services market, evolving fraud and information security landscape, and regulatory developments relating to existing and projected business activities. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system able to address such growth, and will require us to incur significant additional expenses, expand our workforce and commit additional time from senior management and operational resources. We may not be able to manage supporting and expanding our operations effectively, and any failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to increase the scale of our business, generate projected revenue and control expenses. Our results of operations and future prospects depend on our ability to retain existing members and attract new members. We face intense and increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our competitive positioning and our operating results will be harmed. We refer to our customers as members. We define a member as someone who has a lending relationship with us through origination or servicing, opened a financial services account, linked an external account to our platform, or signed up for our credit score monitoring service. We operate in a rapidly changing and highly competitive industry, and our results of operations and future prospects depend on, among others: the continued growth of our member base; our ability to monetize our member base, including through the use of additional products by our existing members; our ability to acquire members at a lower cost; and our ability to increase the overall value to us of each of our members while they remain on our platform (which we refer to as a members lifetime value). We expect our competition to continue to increase, as there are generally no substantial barriers to entry to the markets we serve. In addition to established enterprises, we may also face competition from early-stage companies attempting to capitalize on the same, or similar, opportunities as we are. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, particularly with respect to our financial services products, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and a larger customer base than we do. This allows them to potentially offer more competitive pricing or other terms or features, a broader range of financial products, or a more specialized set of specific products or services, as well as respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in member preferences. Our existing or future competitors may develop products or services that are similar to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. This could attract current or potential members away from our services and reduce our market share in the future. Additionally, when new competitors seek to enter our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, these competitors sometimes undercut, or otherwise exert pressure on, the pricing terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share and/or our ability to capitalize on new market opportunities. We currently compete at multiple levels with a variety of competitors, including: other personal loan, student loan refinancing, in-school student loan and mortgage lenders, including other banks and other non-bank financial institutions, as well as credit card issuers, that can offer more competitive interest rates or terms; 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS banks and other non-bank financial institutions, for our SoFi Money cash management accounts and SoFi Bank deposit products and services; rewards credit cards provided by other financial institutions, for our SoFi Credit Card; other brokerage firms, including online or mobile platforms, and technology and other companies for our SoFi Invest accounts; other technology platforms for the enterprise services we provide, such as technology platform services via Galileo; with other content providers for subscribers to our financial services content, including content from alternative providers available to our subscribers through our Lantern Credit service, which is a financial services aggregator providing marketplace lending products, and various enterprise partnerships; and other financial services firms offering leading employers a comprehensive platform for employees to build financial well-being through student loan and 529 educational plan contributions, educational tools, and financial resources, all of which we provide through SoFi at Work. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including, among others, the following: the size, diversity and activity levels of our member base; our ability to introduce successful new products and services, or to iterate and innovate on existing products or services to satisfy evolving member preferences or to keep pace with market trends; our ability to diversify our revenue streams across our products and services; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services, including developments and enhancements to those products and services, offered by us and our competitors; member service and support efforts; selling and marketing and promotional efforts; the ease of use, performance, price and reliability of solutions developed either by us or our competitors; our ability to attract and retain talent; changes in economic conditions, regulatory and policy developments; our ability to successfully operate a national bank and realize the potential benefits to our members; our ability to successfully execute on the Financial Services Productivity Loop and our other business plans; general credit markets conditions and their impact on our liquidity and ability to access funding; the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related developments on the lending and financial services markets we serve; and our brand strength relative to our competitors. Our current and future business prospects demand that we act to meet these competitive challenges but, in doing so, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if we, for example, increase marketing or other expenditures or make new expenditures in other areas. Competitive pressures could also result in us reducing the annual percentage rate on the loans we originate, incurring higher member acquisition costs, or making it more difficult for us to grow our loan originations in both number of loans and volume for new as well as existing members. All of the foregoing factors and events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. We recently acquired a national bank, which subjects us to significant additional regulation. In March 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire Golden Pacific, a bank holding company, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Golden Pacific Bank, National Association, a national bank. In January 2022, we received regulatory approval for the Bank Merger. We closed the Bank Merger in February 2022, after which we became a bank holding company and Golden Pacific Bank began operating as SoFi Bank. As a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, and SoFi Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC, as well as regulations issued by the CFPB. Federal laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. In general, the bank supervisory framework is intended to protect insured depositors and the safety, soundness and stability of the U.S. financial system and not shareholders in depository institutions or their holding companies. Our efforts to comply with such additional regulations may require substantial time, monetary and human resource commitments. If any new regulations or interpretations of existing regulations to which we are subject impose requirements on us that are impractical or that we cannot satisfy, our financial performance, and our stock price, may be adversely affected. In connection with applying for approval to become a bank holding company, we developed a financial and bank capitalization plan and enhanced our governance, compliance, controls and management infrastructure and capabilities in order to work to be compliant with all applicable regulations and operate to the satisfaction of the banking regulators, which required substantial time, monetary and human resource commitments. Our efforts to comply with such regulations and new and additional regulations may require substantial time, monetary and human resource commitments. If any new regulations or interpretations of existing regulations to which we are subject impose requirements on us that are impractical or that we cannot satisfy, our financial performance, and our stock price, may be adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our stockholders may need to comply with applicable federal banking statutes and regulations, including the Change in Bank Control Act and the Bank Holding Company Act. Specifically, stockholders holding 10.0% or more of our voting interests may be required to provide certain information and/or commitments on a confidential basis to, among other regulators, the Federal Reserve. This requirement may deter certain existing or potential stockholders from purchasing shares of our common stock, which may suppress demand for the stock and cause the price to decline. Our future growth depends significantly on our branding and marketing efforts, and if our marketing efforts are not successful, our business and results of operations will be harmed. We have dedicated and intend to continue to dedicate significant resources to marketing efforts. Our ability to attract members depends in large part on the success of these marketing efforts and the success of the marketing channels we use to promote our products. Our marketing channels include, but are not limited to, earned media through press and social media, as well as traditional advertising, such as online affiliations, search engine optimization and digital marketing, offline partnerships, out-of-home, direct mail, lifecycle marketing and television and radio advertising. While our goal remains to increase the strength, recognition and trust in our brand by increasing our member base and expanding our products and services, if any of our current marketing channels becomes less effective, if we are unable to continue to use any of these channels, if the cost of using these channels significantly increases or if we are not successful in generating new channels, we may not be able to attract new members in a cost-effective manner or increase the activity of our existing members on our platform, including by using additional products or services we offer. If we are unable to recover our marketing costs through increases in the size, value or overall number of loans we originate, or other product selection and utilization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. Legislative and regulatory policies and related actions in connection with student loans could have a material adverse effect on our student loan portfolios. In recent years, there has been increased focus by policymakers on outstanding student loans, including, among other things, on the total volume of outstanding loans and on the number of loans outstanding per borrower. In response, there has been discussion of potential legislative and regulatory actions and other possible steps to, among other things: permit private education loans such as our refinanced student loan and in-school student loan products to be discharged in bankruptcy without the need to show undue hardship; amend the federal postsecondary education loan programs, including to reduce interest rates on certain loans, to revise repayment plans, to implement loan forgiveness plans, to provide for refinancing of private education loans into federal student loans at low interest rates, to reduce or eliminate the Grad PLUS program (which authorizes loans that comprise a substantial portion of our student loan refinancing business) and to provide for refinancing of existing federally held student loans into new federal student loans at low interest rates; require private education lenders to reform loan agreements to provide for income-based repayment plans and other payment plans; and make sweeping changes to the entire cost structure and financial aid system for higher education in the United States, including proposals to provide free postsecondary education. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the first half of 2021, the Biden administration ordered a formal legal review of authorities that could be used to cancel student debt and there has been public pressure for the Biden administration to publicly release the memo outlining the conclusions of the legal review. Prominent politicians, including Senator Elizabeth Warren and Majority Leader Senator Chuck Schumer, have also advocated for executive action to forgive student loan debt. If student loans were forgiven or canceled in any meaningful scale, or if federal loan borrowers were permitted to refinance at lower interest rates, our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects could be materially and adversely affected as a result. In particular, our student loan refinancing business within our Lending segment, which is our largest segment, would be materially and adversely affected. There has also been pressure on policymakers to address underlying factors that contributed to the current volume of outstanding student loans, such as the cost of higher education and the ability for additional methods by the federal government and other organizations to subsidize the same, such as through increased use of Pell grants in lieu of loans. Further, proposals to eliminate or amend Section 523(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, which makes student loans presumptively non-dischargeable in bankruptcy, could make whole loan purchasers less likely to purchase our student loans, securitization investors less likely to purchase securities backed by our student loans or warehouse lenders less likely to lend against our student loans at attractive advance rates. If steps were taken to materially reduce future demand by students for student loan refinancing and in-school student loan products, our student loan originations would be materially and adversely affected. As a result of any material adverse effect to our Lending segment, our overall profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects may be adversely affected. See COVID-19 Pandemic Risks Legislative and regulatory responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our current student loan portfolios and our loan origination volume . Negative publicity could result in a decline in our member growth, or a loss of members, and impact our ability to compete for lending counterparties and corporate partners, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our brand and our results of operations. We have invested significantly in our brand. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our success. Our ability to compete for, attract and maintain members, lending counterparties, marketing partners and other partners relies to a large extent on their trust in our business and the value of our brand. The failure or perceived failure to maintain our brand could adversely affect our brand value, financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity can adversely affect our reputation and damage our brand, and may arise from many sources, including actual or alleged misconduct, errors or improper business practices by employees, employee claims of discrimination or harassment, product failures, existing or future litigation or regulatory actions, inadequate protection of consumer information, data breaches, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and Nasdaq listing requirements and media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative publicity or allegations of unfavorable business practices, poor governance, or workplace misconduct can be rapidly and widely shared over social or traditional media or other means, and could reduce demand for our products, undermine the loyalty of our members and the confidence of our lending counterparties, impact our partnerships, reduce our ability to recruit and retain employees or lead to greater regulatory scrutiny of our operations. In addition, we and our officers, directors and/or employees have been, and may in the future be, named or otherwise involved in litigation or claims, including employment-related claims such as workplace discrimination or harassment, which could result in negative publicity and/or adversely impact our business, even if we are ultimately successful in defending against such claims. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including changes in the fair values of our instruments (including, but not limited to, our loans), the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, general economic conditions, the rate and credit market environment, legal or regulatory developments, legislative or policy changes and the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In light of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We sell a significant percentage of our loans to a concentrated number of whole loan purchasers and the loss of one or more significant purchasers could have a negative impact on our operating results. We sell a significant percentage of our personal loans, student loans and home loans to a concentrated number of whole loan purchasers. Our top five whole loan purchasers by total unpaid principal balance of loans sold accounted for approximately 67% of the aggregate principal balance of our loans sold during the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the two largest third-party buyers accounted for a combined 42% of our loan sales volume. See Note 16 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of a business is concentrated with a limited number of parties. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our loans by these or other purchasers. In addition, purchases of our loans by these purchasers have historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate based on a number of factors, some of which may be 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS outside of our control, including economic conditions, the availability of alternative investments, changes in the terms of the loans, loans offered by competitors and prevailing interest rates. If any of these purchasers significantly reduce the dollar amount of the loans they purchase from us, we may be unable to sell those loans to another purchaser on favorable terms or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. The accounting method for reflecting the convertible notes on our balance sheet, accruing interest expense for the convertible notes and reflecting the underlying shares of our common stock in our reported diluted earnings per share may adversely affect our reported earnings and financial condition. In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which, among other things, simplifies the accounting for certain convertible instruments. We early adopted the provisions of ASU 2020-06 effective January 1, 2021. In accordance with ASU 2020-06, the convertible notes we issued in October 2021 (the notes) are reflected as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets, with the initial carrying amount equal to the principal amount of the notes, net of issuance costs. The issuance costs were treated as a debt discount for accounting purposes, which will be amortized into interest expense over the term of the notes. As a result of this amortization, the interest expense that we expect to recognize for the notes for accounting purposes will be greater than the cash interest payments we will pay on the notes, which will result in lower reported earnings. In addition, the shares underlying the notes will be reflected in our diluted earnings per share using the if converted method. Under that method, if the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount for a reporting period, then we will calculate our diluted earnings per share assuming that all of the notes were converted at the beginning of the reporting period and that we issued shares of our common stock to settle the excess. However, if reflecting the notes in diluted earnings per share in this manner is anti-dilutive, or if the conversion value of the notes does not exceed their principal amount for a reporting period, then the shares underlying the notes will not be reflected in our diluted earnings per share. The application of the if-converted method may reduce our reported diluted earnings per share, and accounting standards may change in the future in a manner that may adversely affect our diluted earnings per share. The conditional conversion feature of the notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition. Holders of notes may be entitled to convert the notes during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we may settle any converted principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. The capped call transactions may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain financial institutions (the Capped Call Counterparties). The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilutive effect on the common stock upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any potential cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, the Capped Call Counterparties or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchased shares of our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the notes. In addition, the Capped Call Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the notes and from time to time prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so following any conversion of the notes, any repurchase of the notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date, any redemption date or any other date on which the notes are retired by us, in each case if we exercise the relevant election to terminate the corresponding portion of the capped call transactions). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the capped call transactions, and the capped call transactions may not operate as planned. The Capped Call Counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the capped call transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the Capped Call Counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Global economic conditions have, from time to time, resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If a Capped Call Counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that Capped Call Counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors, but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated with increases in the market price or the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by a Capped Call Counterparty, we may suffer more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any Capped Call Counterparty. In addition, the capped call transactions are complex, and they may not operate as planned. For example, the terms of the capped call transactions may be subject to adjustment, modification or, in some cases, renegotiation if certain corporate or other transactions occur. Accordingly, these transactions may not operate as we intend if we are required to adjust their terms as a result of transactions in the future or upon unanticipated developments that may adversely affect the functioning of the capped call transactions. COVID-19 Pandemic Risks Our financial condition and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Occurrences of epidemics or pandemics, depending on their scale, may cause different degrees of disruption to the regional, state and local economies in which we offer our products and services. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the value, operating results and financial condition of our business. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused changes in consumer and student behavior, as well as economic disruptions. In the initial stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, extraordinary actions taken by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 and variants thereof, including travel bans, quarantines, stay-at-home orders, suspension of interest accrual and collections on certain federally-backed student loans, and similar mandates for many individuals and businesses to substantially restrict daily activities led to decreases in consumer activity generally. Although consumer activity has begun to recover and many government mandates to restrict daily activities have been lifted, worker shortages, supply chain issues, inflationary pressures, vaccine and testing requirements, the emergence of new variants and the reinstatement and subsequent lifting of restrictions and health and safety related measures in response to the emergence of new variants, such as the Delta and Omicron variants, contributed to the volatility of ongoing recovery. The reinstatement and subsequent lifting of these measures may occur periodically, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition, as well as the business, operations and financial conditions of our customers and partners. There can be no assurance that economic recovery will continue or that consumer behavior will return to pre-pandemic levels. Regulatory actions in response to the impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, among other factors, also have an impact on our business. For example, the Federal Reserve announced in January 2022 that it expects it will soon raise the target range for the federal funds rate in part due to inflation and a strong labor market. Increased interest rates could unfavorably impact demand for all refinancing loan activities and reduce demand across student loans, personal loans and home loans, including, but not limited to, any variable-rate loan products. Additionally, demand for our student loan products in particular may continue to be impacted by legislative and regulatory actions taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as described in more detail in these risk factors. There have been, and may continue to be, other factors that put downward pressure on demand for our loan products. We are uncertain of the full effect the pandemic will have on the longer term prospects for our business since the scope, duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is unknown and evolving factors such as the extent of any resurgences of the virus or emergence of new variants will impact the stability of economic recovery and growth. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business Metrics and Results of Operations for further discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in recent periods on our business and operating results. The COVID-19 pandemic, and its impact, may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described herein. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Legislative and regulatory responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our current loan portfolios and our loan origination volume. Legislative and regulatory responses to the COVID-19 pandemic have had and could continue to have a significant impact on our student loan portfolios. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law. In compliance with the CARES Act, payments and interest accrual on all loans owned by the Department of Education were suspended through September 30, 2020 and were further extended by a series of executive actions most recently through May 1, 2022. There is no guarantee that the moratorium on student loan payments will not be further extended past May 1, 2022. Additionally, on March 25, 2020, the Department of Education announced that private collection agencies were required to stop making outbound collection calls and sending letters or billing statements to borrowers in default on such federally held loans and such restrictions were extended most recently through May 1, 2022. As a result of such forbearance measures and protections, borrowers with federally held student loans lacked the incentive to refinance their student loans with us, which negatively impacted our business by reducing our loan origination volume. The various legislative and regulatory responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly the mandatory suspension of payments and interest accrual on federally held loans until May 2022, which could be further extended, are likely to continue to serve as a disincentive for borrowers to refinance their loans through our platform, thereby reducing our loan origination volume and negatively impacting our revenue. In addition, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to increasing pressure on policymakers to reduce or cancel student loans at a significant scale which would further reduce demand for our student loan refinance product and have a negative impact on our loan origination volume and revenue. For example, President Biden proposed $10,000 in forgiveness for federal student loan borrowers during his campaign and the Justice Department and Department of Education are reviewing whether the Biden administration has the authority to cancel student loan debt or whether any wide scale student loan debt forgiveness must be through legislation. Although we continue to evaluate the ultimate impact of local, state and federal legislation and regulation, guidance and actions, future legislative actions, and the on-going impact of our own forbearance measures on our financial results, business operations and strategies, there is no guarantee that our estimates will be accurate or that any actions we take based on such estimates will be successful. Furthermore, we believe that the cost of responding to, and complying with, evolving laws and regulations, as well as any guidance from enforcement actions, will continue to increase, as will the risk of penalties and fines from any enforcement actions that may be imposed on our businesses. Our profitability, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or future business prospects could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Strategic and New Product Risks We have in the past consummated and, from time to time we may evaluate and potentially consummate, acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our business. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary assets, businesses and technologies rather than through internal development. For example: (i) in April 2020, we acquired 8 Limited, an investment business in Hong Kong, (ii) in May 2020, we acquired Galileo, a company that provides technology platform services to financial and non-financial institutions, (iii) in February 2022, we acquired Golden Pacific, a bank holding company, and (iv) in February 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire Technisys, a cloud-native digital multi-product core banking platform. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; coordination of technology, product development, risk management and sales and marketing functions; retention of employees from the acquired company and retention of our employees due to cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired companys accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, information security safeguards, procedures and policies; potential write-offs or impairments of intangible assets or other assets acquired in the acquisition; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; and geographic expansion exposes our business to known and unknown regulatory compliance risks including elevated risk factors for tax compliance, money laundering controls, and supervisory controls oversight. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business, generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, regulatory obligations to further capitalize our business, and goodwill and intangible asset impairments, any of which could harm our financial condition and negatively impact our stockholders. To the extent we pay the consideration for any future acquisitions or investments in cash, it would reduce the amount of cash available to us for other purposes. Galileo depends on a small number of clients, the loss or disruptions in operations of any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial results, and negatively impact our financial results and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our Technology Platform segment consisted entirely of net revenues from Galileo, which accounted for 20% of our consolidated total net revenue (excluding intercompany revenues). Galileos clients are highly concentrated, with its five largest clients contributing approximately 63% of the total net revenue within the Technology Platform segment during the year ended December 31, 2021, which represented approximately 13% of our consolidated total net revenue for the period then ended. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of net revenue is concentrated with a limited number of customers, including the loss of any one or more of those clients as a result of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings involving the client, the loss of the client to a competitor, harm to that clients reputation or financial prospects or other reasons. In addition, disruptions in the operations of any of Galileos key clients have in the past disrupted and may in the future disrupt Galileos operations, and these disruptions could be material and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Demand for our products may decline if we do not continue to innovate or respond to evolving technological or other changes. We operate in a dynamic industry characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions, and competition based on pricing and other differentiators. We continue to explore new product offerings and may rely on our proprietary technology to make our platform available to members, to service members and to introduce new products, which both fosters innovation and introduces new potential liabilities and risks. For example, in 2021, we launched our IPO investment center, through which we allow SoFi Invest members to invest in initial public offerings, that we underwrite through SoFi Securities, as well as provide dealer services in partnership with underwriting syndicates for IPOs. While this enables us to generate underwriting fees, it could also subject us to liability under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) for the contents of the prospectuses for the initial public offerings that we underwrite, which could be material. In addition, we may increasingly rely on technological innovation as we introduce new types of products, expand our current products into new markets, and continue to streamline our platform. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to successfully innovate and continue to deliver a superior member experience, members demand for our products may decrease and our growth and operations may be harmed. The brokerage industry also competes on price, and demand for our products and services may be affected if we are unable to compete on price. SoFi Securities is a participant in the Depository Trust Companys settlement services. Broker-dealers that settle their own trades are subject to substantially more regulatory requirements than brokers that outsource these functions to third-party providers. Errors in performing settlement functions, including clerical, technological and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions imposed by applicable regulatory authorities as well as losses and liabilities in related lawsuits and proceedings brought by transaction counterparties and others. Any unsettled securities transactions or wrongly executed transactions may expose the broker dealer to adverse movements in the prices of such securities. An increase in fraudulent activity could lead to reputational damage to our brand and material legal, regulatory and financial exposure (including fines and other penalties), and could reduce the use and acceptance of SoFi Money and SoFi Credit Card. Financial institutions like us, as well as our members, colleagues, regulators, vendors and other third parties, have experienced a significant increase in fraudulent activity in recent years and will likely continue to be the target of increasingly sophisticated fraudsters and fraud rings in the future. This is particularly true for our newer products where we have limited experience evaluating customer behavior and performing tailored risk assessments, such as SoFi Money and SoFi Credit Card. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS We develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing fraudulent activity, which require significant investment, maintenance and ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change and as efforts to overcome security and anti-fraud measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, we have in the past and may in the future be subject to fraudulent activity. The possibility of fraudulent or other malicious activities and human error or malfeasance cannot be eliminated entirely and will evolve as new and emerging technology is deployed, including the increasing use of personal mobile and computing devices that are outside of our network and control environments, particularly as a large part of our workforce works remotely. Risks associated with each of these include theft of funds and other monetary loss, the effects of which could be compounded if not detected quickly. Indeed, fraudulent activity may not be detected until well after it occurs and the severity and potential impact may not be fully known for a substantial period of time after it has been discovered. Fraudulent activity and other actual or perceived failures to maintain a products integrity and/or security has led to increased regulatory scrutiny and may lead to regulatory investigations and intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance), increased litigation (including class action litigation), remediation, fines and response costs, negative assessments of us and our subsidiaries by regulators and rating agencies, reputational and financial damage to our brand, and reduced usage of our products and services, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Successful fraudulent activity and other incidents related to the actual or perceived failures to maintain the integrity of our processes and controls could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or harming the reputation of the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our products and services. Such events could also result in legislation and additional regulatory requirements. Although we maintain insurance, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate. We rely on third parties and their systems to process transaction data and for settlement of funds on SoFi Money and SoFi Credit Card, and these third parties failure to perform these services adequately could materially and adversely affect our business. To provide our cash management account and credit card and other products and services, we rely on third parties that we do not control, such as payment card networks, our acquiring and issuing processors, payment card issuers, various financial institution partners, systems like the ACH, and other partners. We rely on these third parties for a variety of services, including the transmission of transaction data, processing of chargebacks and refunds, settlement of funds, and the provision of information and other elements of our services. In the event these third parties fail to provide these services adequately, including as a result of financial difficulty or insolvency, errors in their systems, outages or events beyond their control, or refuse to provide these services on terms acceptable to us or at all, and we are not able to find suitable alternatives, our business may be materially and adversely affected. SoFi Credit Card is a relatively new product and we may not be successful in our efforts to promote its usage through marketing and promotion, or to effectively control the costs of such investments, both of which may materially impact our profitability. Revenue growth for SoFi Credit Card is dependent on increasing the volume of members who open an account and on growing loan balances on those accounts. We have been investing in a number of new product initiatives to attract new SoFi Credit Card members and capture a greater share of our members total spending and borrowings. There can be no assurance that our investments in SoFi Credit Card to acquire members, provide differentiated features and services and spur usage of our card will be effective. Further, developing our service offerings, marketing SoFi Credit Card in additional customer acquisition channels and forming new partnerships could have higher costs than anticipated, and could adversely impact our results or dilute our brand. See Funding and Liquidity Risks SoFi Credit Card is a relatively new product and any failure to execute our funding strategy for it could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition . SoFi may be unable to close or successfully integrate Technisys operations and may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquiring Technisys. SoFi and Technisys have operated and, until the completion of the Technisys acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the Technisys acquisition, including anticipated benefits and cost savings and potential additional revenue opportunities, will depend, in part, on SoFis ability to close the Technisys acquisition, successfully integrate Technisys operations in a manner that results in various benefits, including, among other things, the development of an end-to-end vertically integrated banking technology stack to support multiple products and enable the combined company to meet the expanding needs of existing parties and serve additional established banks, fintechs and non-financial brands looking to enter financial services. The process of integrating operations could result in a loss of key personnel or cause an interruption of, or 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of SoFis businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of SoFi to maintain relationships with customers and employees. The diversion of managements attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Technisys acquisition and the integration of Technisys operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and prospects of SoFi. If the Technisys acquisition is not consummated for any reason, or SoFi experiences difficulties in the integration process, including those listed above, SoFi may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Technisys acquisition in a timely manner or at all. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, lost cost savings and incremental revenue opportunities and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on SoFis business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. We may continue to expand operations abroad where we have limited operating experience and may be subject to increased business, economic and regulatory risks that could adversely impact our financial results. In April 2020, we undertook our first international expansion by acquiring 8 Limited, an investment business in Hong Kong. Additionally, with the acquisition of Galileo in May 2020, we gained clients in Mexico and Colombia and, with the anticipated acquisition of Technisys in February 2022, we expect to further expand our operations into Latin America. We may, in the future, pursue further international expansion of our business operations, either organically or through acquisitions, in new international markets where we have limited or no experience in marketing, selling and deploying our product and services. If we fail to deploy or manage our operations in these countries successfully, our business and operations may suffer. In addition, we are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: political, social and/or economic instability; risks related to governmental regulations in foreign jurisdictions, including regulations relating to privacy, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and enforcement; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; higher levels of credit risk and fraud; enhanced difficulties of integrating any foreign acquisitions; burdens of enforcing and complying with a variety of foreign laws; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; difficulties in staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations and subsidiaries; different regulations and practices with respect to employee/employer relationships, existence of workers councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain international jurisdictions; compliance with statutory equity requirements; and management of tax consequences. If we are unable to manage the complexity of global operations successfully, our financial performance and operating results could suffer. Credit Risks We operate in a cyclical industry. In an economic downturn, member default rates may increase, there may be decreased demand for our products, and there may be adverse impacts to our lending business. Uncertainty and negative trends in general economic conditions can have a significant negative impact on our ability to generate adequate revenue and to absorb expected and unexpected losses. Many factors, including factors that are beyond our control, may result in higher default rates by our members, a decline in the demand for our products, and potentially impact our ability to make accurate credit assessments or lending decisions. Any of these factors could have a detrimental impact on our operating performance and liquidity. Our Lending and Financial Services segments may be particularly negatively impacted by worsening economic conditions that place financial stress on our members resulting in loan defaults or charge-offs. If a loan charges off while we are still the owner, the loan either enters a collections process or is sold to a third-party collection agency and, in either case, we will receive less than the full outstanding interest on, and principal balance of, the loan. Declining economic conditions may 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS also lead to either decreased demand for our loans or demand for a higher yield on our loans, and consequently lower prices or a lower advance rate, from institutional whole loan purchasers, securitization investors and warehouse lenders on whom we rely for liquidity. The longevity and severity of a downturn will also place pressure on lenders under our debt warehouses, whole loan purchasers and investors in our securitizations. Furthermore, long-term market disruptions could negatively impact the securitizations market. Although certain of our debt warehouses and whole loan sale agreements contain committed terms, there can be no assurance that our financing arrangements will remain available to us through any particular business cycle or be renewed on the same terms. The timing and extent of a downturn may also require us to change, postpone or cancel our strategic initiatives or growth plans to pursue shorter-term sustainability. The longer and more severe an economic downturn, the greater the potential adverse impact on us. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will remain favorable for our business or that interest in purchasing our loans by financial institutions, will remain at current levels, or that default rates by our members will not increase. Reduced demand or lower prices or a lower advance rate for our products from institutional whole loan purchasers, securitization investors and warehouse lenders and increased default rates by our members may limit our access to capital, including debt warehouse facilities and securitizations, and negatively impact our profitability. If we do not make accurate credit and pricing decisions or effectively forecast our loss rates, our business and financial results will be harmed, and the harm could be material. In making a decision whether to extend credit to prospective or existing members, we rely upon data to assess our ability to extend credit within our risk appetite, our debt servicing capacity, and overall risk level to determine lending exposure and loan pricing. If the decision components, rapidly deteriorating macro-economic conditions or analytics are either unstable, biased, or missing key pieces of information, the wrong decisions will be made, which will negatively affect our financial results. If our credit decisioning strategy fails to adequately predict the creditworthiness of our members, including a failure to predict a members true credit risk profile and ability to repay their loan, higher than expected loss rates will impact the fair value of our loans. Additionally, if any portion of the information pertaining to the prospective member is false, inaccurate or incomplete, and our systems did not detect such falsities, inaccuracies or incompleteness, or any or all of the other components of our credit decision process fails, we may experience higher than forecasted losses, including losses attributed to fraud. Furthermore, we rely on credit reporting agencies to obtain credit reports and other information we rely upon in making underwriting and pricing decisions. If one of these third parties experiences an outage, if we are unable to access the third-party data used in our decision strategy, or our access to such data is limited, our ability to accurately evaluate potential members will be compromised, and we may be unable to effectively predict credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would negatively impact our results of operations, which could be material. Additionally, if we make errors in the development, validation, or implementation of any of the underwriting models or tools that we use for the loans securing our debt warehouses or included in securitization transactions or whole loan sales, such loans may experience higher delinquencies and losses, which would negatively impact our debt warehouse financing terms and future securitization and whole loan sale transactions. If the information provided to us by members is incorrect or fraudulent, we may misjudge a members qualification to receive a loan or use one of our products, and our results of operations may be harmed. Our lending decisions are based partly on information provided to us by loan applicants or members. To the extent that these applicants provide information to us in a manner that we are unable to verify, our credit decisioning process may not accurately reflect the associated risk. In addition, data provided by third-party sources, including credit reporting agencies, is a significant component of our credit decisions and this data may contain inaccuracies. Inaccurate analysis of credit data that could result from false loan application information could harm our reputation, business and results of operations. Additionally, we rely on the accuracy of member information in approving members for our non-lending products, such as SoFi Money or SoFi Invest accounts. We use identity and fraud prevention tools to analyze data provided by external databases to authenticate each applicants identity. From time to time in the past, however, these checks have failed and there is a risk that these checks could fail in the future, and fraud, which may be significant, may occur and go undetected. For example, we recently identified certain fraudulent activity related to our personal loans product. While the fraudulent activity was detected and the losses are not expected to be material, there can be no assurance there will not be future instances of fraud, that we will be able to detect such fraudulent activity in a timely manner, or that such future fraudulent activity will not be material. We may not be able to recoup funds underlying loans made in connection with inaccurate statements, omissions of fact or fraud, in which case our revenue, results of operations and profitability will be harmed. Fraudulent activity or significant increases in fraudulent activity could 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS also lead to regulatory intervention, which could negatively impact our results of operations, brand and reputation, and require us to take steps to reduce fraud risk, which could increase our costs. Internet-based loan origination processes may give rise to greater risks than paper-based processes. We use Internet-based loan processes to obtain application information and distribute certain legally required notices to applicants for, and borrowers of, our loans, and to obtain electronically signed loan documents in lieu of paper documents with ink signatures obtained in person. These processes may entail greater risks than paper-based loan origination processes, including regarding the sufficiency of notice for compliance with consumer protection laws, risks that borrowers may challenge the authenticity of loan documents, or the validity of the borrowers electronic signature on loan documents, and risks that unauthorized changes are made to the electronic loan documents. If any of those factors were to cause our loans, or any of the terms of our loans, to be unenforceable against the relevant borrowers, or impair our ability as master servicer or servicer to service our loans, the value of our loan assets would decrease significantly to us and to our whole loan purchasers, securitization investors and warehouse lenders. In addition to increased default rates and losses on our loans, this could lead to the loss of whole loan purchasers and securitization investors and trigger terminations and amortizations under our debt warehouse facilities, each of which would materially adversely impact our business. Student loans are subject to discharge in certain circumstances. Private education loans, including the refinanced student loans and other student loans made by us, are generally not dischargeable by a borrower in bankruptcy. However, a private education loan may be discharged if a debtor files an adversary claim and the bankruptcy court determines that not discharging the debt would impose an undue hardship on the debtor and the debtors dependents. Further, bills have been introduced in Congress that would make student loans dischargeable in bankruptcy to the same extent as other forms of unsecured credit without regard to a hardship analysis. For example, Senator Dick Durbin and Senator John Cornyn introduced a bill in 2021, the Fresh Start Through Bankruptcy Act, which would amend the bankruptcy code to more easily permit student loan discharges of federal student loans after ten years and it is possible similar legislation could be proposed with respect to private student loans. It is possible that a higher percentage of borrowers will obtain relief under bankruptcy or other debtor relief laws as a result of financial and economic disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic than is reflected in our historical experience. A private education loan that is not a refinanced parent-student loan is also generally dischargeable as a result of the death or disability of the borrower. The discharge of a significant amount of our loans could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We offer personal loans, which have a limited performance history, and therefore we have only limited prepayment, loss and delinquency data with respect to such loans on which to base projections. The performance of the personal loans we offer is significantly dependent on the ability of the credit decisioning, income validation, and scoring models we use to originate such loans, which include a variety of factors, to effectively evaluate an applicants credit profile and likelihood of default. Despite recession-readiness planning and stress forecasting, there is no assurance that our credit criteria can accurately predict loan performance under economic conditions such as a prolonged down-cycle or recessionary economic environment or the governmental response to periods of disruption, such as measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which may drive unexpected outcomes. If our criteria do not accurately reflect credit risk on the personal loans, greater than expected losses may result on these loans and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, personal loans are dischargeable in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a borrower without the need for the borrower to file an adversary claim. The discharge of a significant amount of our personal loans could adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, other characteristics of personal loans may increase the risk of default or fraud and there are few restrictions on the uses that may be made of personal loans by borrowers, which may result in increased levels of credit consumption. We also originate a material portion of our personal loans through ACH deposits directly to the borrowers, which may result in a higher risk of fraud. The effect of these factors may be to reduce the amounts collected on our personal loans and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We service all of the personal loans we originate and have limited loan servicing experience, and we rely on third-party service providers to service the student loans, home loans and credit card loans that we originate, and to perform various other functions in connection with the origination and servicing of certain of our loans. If a third-party service provider fails to properly perform these functions, our business and our ability to service our loans may be adversely affected. We service all of the personal loans we originate, and we have limited experience with such servicing. We may begin servicing the student loans that we originate at some time in the future. We rely on sub-servicers to service all of our student loans and all of our FNMA conforming home loans that we do not sell servicing-released, to perform certain back-up servicing 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS functions with respect to our personal loans, and to service all of our credit card loans. In addition, we rely on third-party service providers to perform various functions relating to our loan origination and servicing business, including underwriting, fraud detection, marketing, operational functions, cloud infrastructure services, information technology, telecommunications and processing remotely created checks, and, historically because we were not a bank and could not belong to or directly access the ACH payment network, ACH processing, and debit card and credit issuance or payment processing. While we oversee these service providers to ensure they service our loans in accordance with our agreements and regulatory requirements, we do not have control over the operations of any of the third-party service providers that we utilize. In the event that a third-party service provider for any reason fails to perform such functions, including through negligence, willful misconduct or fraud, our ability to process payments and perform other operational functions for which we currently rely on such third-party service providers will suffer and our business, cash flows and future prospects may be negatively impacted. Any failure on our part or on the part of third parties on whom we rely to perform functions related to our servicing activities to properly service our loans could result in us being removed as the servicer on the loans we originate, including loans financed by our warehouse facilities or sold into our whole loan sales channel and securitization transactions. If we fail to monitor our student loan sub-servicer and ensure that such sub-servicer complies with its obligations under state laws that require student loan servicers to be licensed, we may face civil claims for damages under such state laws. Because we receive revenue from such servicing activities, any such removal as the servicer or, with respect to our student loans, master servicer, could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects, as would the cost of onboarding a new servicer. Furthermore, we have agreed in our servicing agreements to service loans in accordance with the standards set forth therein, and may be obligated to repurchase loans if we fail to meet those standards. Additionally, if one or more key third-party service providers were to cease to exist, to become a debtor in a bankruptcy or an insolvency proceeding or to seek relief under any debtor relief laws or to terminate its relationship with us, there could be delays in our ability to process payments and perform other operational functions for which we are currently relying on such third-party service provider, and we may not be able to promptly replace such third-party service provider with a different third-party service provider that has the ability to promptly provide the same services in the same manner and on the same economic terms. As a result of any such delay or inability to replace such key third-party service provider, our ability to process payments and perform other business functions could suffer and our business, cash flows and future prospects may be negatively impacted. We may make non-qualified home loans, which may increase the risk of litigation by consumers. We do not currently offer, but may expand our product selection to offer, non-qualified home loans, which, unlike qualified home loans, do not benefit from a presumption that the borrower has the ability to repay the loan. If we were to make a loan for which we did not satisfy the regulatory standards for ascertaining the borrowers ability to repay the loan and the borrower were to default, we may be prevented from collecting interest and principal on that loan in court. As such, non-qualified home loans carry increased risk of exposure to litigation and claims of borrowers. Potential geographic concentration of our members may increase the risk of loss on the loans that we originate and negatively impact our business. Any concentration of our members in specific geographic areas may increase the risk of loss on our loans. Certain regions of the United States from time to time will experience weaker economic conditions and higher unemployment and, consequently, will experience higher rates of delinquency and loss than on similar loans in other regions of the country. Moreover, a deterioration in economic conditions, outbreaks of disease (such as new or worsening outbreaks of COVID-19 or additional strains or variants), the continued increase in extreme weather conditions and other natural events (such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, drought, wildfires, mudslides, earthquakes and other extreme conditions) could adversely affect the ability and willingness of borrowers in affected regions to meet their payment obligations under their loans and may consequently affect the delinquency and loss experience of such loans. In addition, we, as master servicer for all student loans and home loans and as servicer of our personal loans, have offered in the past, and may in the future offer, hardship forbearance or other relief programs in certain circumstances to affected borrowers. Conversely, an improvement in economic conditions in one or more states could result in higher prepayments of their payment obligations under their loans by borrowers in such states. As a result, we and the whole loan purchasers who hold our loans or securitization investors or warehouse lenders who hold securities backed by our loans may receive principal payments earlier than anticipated, and fewer interest payments than anticipated, and face certain reinvestment risks, such as the inability to acquire loans on equally attractive terms as the prepaid loans. In addition, higher prepayments than anticipated may have a negative impact on our servicing revenue which could cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Further, the concentration of our loans in one or more states may have a disproportionate effect on us or investors in our loans or securities backed by our loans if governmental authorities in any of those states take action against us as originator, master servicer or servicer of those loans or take action affecting our ability as master servicer or servicer to service those loans in such states. Market and Interest Rate Risks Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by the financial markets, fiscal, monetary, and regulatory policies, and economic conditions generally. General economic, political, social and health conditions in the U.S. and in countries abroad affect markets in the U.S. and abroad and our business. In particular, markets in the U.S. or abroad may be affected by the level and volatility of interest rates, availability and market conditions of financing, unexpected changes in gross domestic product, economic growth or its sustainability, inflation, supply chain disruptions, consumer spending, employment levels, labor shortages, wage stagnation, federal government shutdowns, developments related to the U.S. federal debt ceiling, energy prices, home prices, commercial property values, bankruptcies, a default by a significant market participant or class of counterparties, fluctuations or other significant changes in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial markets, the growth of global trade and commerce, trade policies, the availability and cost of capital and credit, disruption of communication, transportation or energy infrastructure and investor sentiment and confidence. Additionally, global markets may be adversely affected by the current or anticipated impact of climate change, extreme weather events or natural disasters, the emergence or continuation of widespread health emergencies or pandemics, cyberattacks or campaigns, military conflict, including Russias invasion of Ukraine, terrorism or other geopolitical events. Also, any sudden or prolonged market downturn in the U.S. or abroad, as a result of the above factors or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including capital and liquidity levels. Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in its target funds rate, balance sheet management, and lending facilities, and any exit, or perceived exit, from qualitative easing, and other central banks are beyond our control and difficult to predict. These actions can affect interest rates and the value of financial instruments and other assets and liabilities and can impact our members. Sudden changes in monetary policy, for example in response to high inflation, could lead to financial market volatility, increases in market interest rates, and a flattening or inversion of the yield curve. Changes to existing U.S. laws and regulatory policies and evolving priorities, including those related to financial regulation, taxation, international trade, fiscal policy, climate change (including required reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) and healthcare, may adversely impact U.S. or global economic activity and our members', our counterparties' and our earnings and operations. For example, the expiration of pandemic-related government assistance in the U.S. could result in a reduction in economic activity and lead to a deterioration in households finances, particularly if consumers also continue to face high inflation. A slowdown in consumer demand could limit the ability of firms to pass on fast-rising costs for labor and other inputs, weighing on earnings and potentially leading to an equity market downturn. Significant fiscal policy changes and/or initiatives may also raise the federal debt, affect businesses and household after-tax incomes and increase uncertainty surrounding the formulation and direction of U.S. monetary policy and volatility of interest rates. A rise in U.S. interest rates could increase the likelihood of a more volatile and appreciating U.S. dollar. Changes, or proposed changes, to certain U.S. trade and international investment policies, particularly with important trading partners (including China and the EU) have in recent years negatively impacted financial markets. An escalation of tensions could lead to further measures that adversely affect financial markets, disrupt world trade and commerce and lead to trade retaliation, including through the use of tariffs, foreign exchange measures or the large-scale sale of U.S. Treasury Bonds. Actions taken by other countries, particularly China, to restrict the activities of businesses, could also negatively affect financial markets. Any of these developments could adversely affect our business, our members, the value of our loan portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, our capital levels, our liquidity and our results of operations. We utilize a gain-on-sale origination model and, consequently, our business is affected by the cost and availability of funding in the capital markets. In addition to the issuance of equity, historically, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures through sales of our loans, secured and unsecured borrowing facilities and securitizations. We utilize a gain-on-sale origination model and, consequently, our earnings and financial condition are largely dependent on the price we can obtain for our products in the capital markets, which may also be negatively impacted by rising interest rates combined with longer periods during which we are required to hold loans on-balance sheet. Our ability to obtain these types of financing depends, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance, lending activities, and condition of, and our access to, the capital markets at the time we seek financing. The capital markets have from time to time experienced periods of significant volatility, 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS including volatility driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. This volatility can dramatically and adversely affect financing costs when compared to historical norms or make funding unavailable at any cost. Additional factors that could make financing more expensive or unavailable to us include, but are not limited to, financial losses, events that have an adverse impact on our reputation, lawsuits challenging our business practices, adverse regulatory changes, changes in the activities of our business partners, events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry generally, counterparty availability, negative credit rating actions with respect to our rated securities, corporate and regulatory actions, interest rate changes, general economic conditions, including changing expectations for inflation and deflation, and the legal, regulatory and tax environments governing funding transactions, including existing or future securitization transactions. If financing is difficult, expensive or unavailable, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Changing expectations for inflation and deflation and corresponding fluctuations in interest rates could decrease demand for our lending products and negatively affect loan performance, as well as increase certain operating costs, such as employee compensation. There is particular uncertainty about the prospects for growth in the U.S. economy. A number of factors influence the potential uncertainty, including, but not limited to, rising government debt levels, prospective executive branch or Federal Reserve policy shifts, the withdrawal of government interventions into the financial markets, changing U.S. consumer spending patterns, and changing expectations for inflation and deflation which may impact interest rates. For example, at its January 2022 Federal Open Market Committee Meeting, the Federal Reserve indicated it expects to raise benchmark interest rates in 2022, partially in response to increasing inflation and a strong labor market. Increased interest rates may decrease borrower demand for our lending products, even as inflation places pressure on consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits as consumers evaluate their prospects for future income growth and employment opportunities in the current economic environment, and as borrowers face uncertainty about the impact of rising prices on their ability to repay a loan. A change in demand for our lending products and any steps we may take to mitigate such change could impact credit quality and overall growth of our Lending Segment. Furthermore, inflationary and other economic pressure resulting in the inability of a borrower to repay a loan could translate into increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. Additionally, an inflationary environment, combined with the tight labor market, could make it more costly for us to attract or retain employees. In order to meet the compensation expectations of our prospective and current employees due to inflationary factors, we may be required to increase our operating costs or risk losing skilled workers to competitors. Fluctuations in interest rates could negatively affect the demand for our SoFi Money product. Falling or low interest rates may have a negative impact on the demand for our SoFi Money product. SoFi Money is a cash management account offered through SoFi Securities, which offers members the opportunity to earn a variable interest rate on their account balances. Deposits made into a SoFi Money account earn a variable rate of interest. Falling or low interest rates may discourage account holders and prospective account holders from using the SoFi Money product, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. Higher than expected payment speeds of loans could negatively impact our returns as the holder of the residual interests in securitization trusts holding student and personal loans. These factors could materially alter our net revenue or the value of our residual interest holdings. The rate at which borrowers prepay their loans can have a material impact on our net revenue and the value of our residual interests in securitization trusts. Prepayment rates and levels are subject to a variety of economic, social, competitive and other factors, including fluctuations in interest rates, availability of alternative financings, regulatory changes affecting the student loan market, the home loan market, consumer lending generally and the general economy, including changing expectations for inflation and deflation. While we anticipate some variability in prepayment levels, extraordinary or extended increases or decreases in prepayment rates could materially affect our liquidity and net revenue. For example, when as a result of unanticipated prepayment levels, student, and personal loans, as applicable, within a securitization trust amortize faster (due to prepayments) than originally contracted, the trusts pool balance may decline at a rate faster than the prepayment rate assumed when the trusts bonds were originally issued. If the trusts pool balance declines faster than originally anticipated, in most of our securitization structures, the bonds issued by that trust will also be repaid faster than originally anticipated. In such cases, our net revenue may decrease, inclusive of the diminished value of any retained residual interest by us in the trust. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Finally, rating agencies may place bonds on watch or change their ratings on (or their ratings methodology for) the bonds issued by a securitization trust, possibly raising or lowering their ratings, based upon these prepayment rates and their perception of the risk posed by those rates to the timing of the trust cash flows. Placing bonds on watch, changing ratings negatively, proposing or making changes to ratings methodology could: (i) affect our liquidity, (ii) impede our access to the securitization markets, (iii) require changes to our securitization structures and (iv) raise or lower the value of the residual interests of our future securitization transactions. The transition away from LIBOR as a benchmark reference for interest rates may affect our cost of capital, our liquidity, or expose us to borrower litigation or damage to the SoFi brand. LIBOR has served as a global benchmark for determining interest rates on commercial and consumer loans, bonds, derivatives and numerous other financial instruments. Prior to December 31, 2021, we typically used USD LIBOR as the reference rate for the securities issued under certain of our securitizations (such as student loan securitizations), certain secured and unsecured financing facilities (such as the loan warehouse facilities, risk retention facilities and revolving credit facility), certain hedging arrangements, and our Series 1 redeemable preferred stock dividends. LIBOR was set based on interest rate information reported by certain banks, which stopped reporting such information after 2021. After December 31, 2021, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited, the administrator of LIBOR (the IBA), ceased publishing one-week and two-month USD LIBOR, in addition to certain other non-USD tenors. The IBA expects to continue to publish all remaining USD LIBOR tenors through June 30, 2023, with the overnight and 12-month tenors ceasing immediately thereafter and the one-month, three-month and six-month tenors becoming non-representative from that date. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process, the valuation of LIBOR alternatives, and other economic consequences from the phasing out of LIBOR may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we began to use the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), the rate recommended by the U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, as the recommended risk-free reference rate for the United States, as the pricing index on all new variable-rate loan originations, and on new warehouse facility agreements and other financial instruments. We also transitioned some existing warehouse facility lines to SOFR. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $191 million of financial instruments indexed to USD LIBOR, consisting of loans, bonds and economic hedge positions. Our derivative agreements are governed by the International Swap Dealers Association, which established a 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol and supplement effective in January 2021, as well as additional subsequent supplements, to allow counterparties to modify legacy trades to reference amended standard definitions inclusive of the new fallback language. However, most of these legacy financial instruments do not include provisions clearly specifying a method for transitioning from LIBOR to an alternative benchmark rate, and it is not yet known how courts or regulators will view the transition away from LIBOR to an alternative benchmark rate. As a result, it is difficult to predict the impact that a cessation of LIBOR would have on the value and performance of our existing financial instruments. As of the date of this filing, we have not modified any existing loan agreements with borrowers that use USD LIBOR. We expect to begin transitioning these agreements, along with continuing to transition other financial instruments, from USD LIBOR to SOFR or other representative alternative reference rates in 2022. As of December 31, 2021, we identified approximately $185 million of variable-rate loans for which the pricing index was tied to USD LIBOR. Our loan agreements generally allow us to choose a new alternative reference rate based upon comparable information if the current index is no longer available. The market transition away from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate is complex. We may incur significant expenses in implementing replacement reference rates for the calculation of interest rates under our loan agreements with borrowers, developing systems and analytics to successfully transition our risk management processes, and we may be subject to disputes or litigation with our borrowers over the appropriateness or comparability to LIBOR of the replacement reference rates or the interpretation or enforcement of certain fallback language in LIBOR-based products. The replacement reference rates could also result in a reduction in our interest income, which could have an adverse impact on our value, liquidity and results of operations. We may also receive inquiries and other actions from regulators in respect to our replacement of LIBOR with alternative reference rates. These uncertainties regarding the possible cessation of LIBOR or their resolution could have a material adverse impact on our funding costs, net interest margin, loan and other asset values, asset-liability management strategies, and other aspects of our business and financial results. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are exposed to financial risks that may be partially mitigated but cannot be eliminated by our hedging activities, which carry their own risks. We have used, and may in the future use, financial instruments for hedging and risk management purposes in order to protect against possible fluctuations in interest rates, or for other reasons that we deem appropriate. In particular, we expect our interest rate risk to increase as our home loans business grows. However, any current and future hedges we enter into will not completely eliminate the risk associated with rising interest rates and our hedging activities may prove to be ineffective. The success of our hedging strategy will be subject to our ability to correctly assess counterparty risk and the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and any changes in interest rates, along with our ability to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. Therefore, though we may enter into transactions to seek to reduce risks, unanticipated changes may create a more negative consequence than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the instruments being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the effect of the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Any failure to manage our hedging positions properly or inability to enter into hedging instruments upon acceptable terms could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Funding and Liquidity Risks If we are unable to retain and/or increase our current sources of funding and secure new or alternative methods of financing, our ability to finance additional loans and introduce new products will be negatively impacted. Historically, in addition to the issuance of equity, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures primarily through access to the capital markets through sales of our loans, access to secured and unsecured borrowing facilities and utilization of securitization financing from consolidated and nonconsolidated VIEs. In each of these instances (other than for certain whole loan sales of home loans), we retain the servicing rights to our loans from which we earn a servicing fee. In securitization financing transactions, we transfer a pool of loans originated by SoFi Lending Corp. to a VIE which is sponsored by SoFi Lending Corp. and we retain risk in the VIE, typically in the form of asset-backed bonds and residual interest investments. As of December 31, 2021, we had 13 VIEs consolidated on our consolidated balance sheet. We rely on each of these outlets for liquidity and the loss or reduction of any one of these outlets could materially adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully access the securitization markets at any given time, and in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking and financial system, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain necessary levels of funding without incurring high funding costs, a reduction in the term of funding instruments, an increase in the amount of equity we are required to hold or the liquidation of certain assets. Furthermore, there is a risk that there will be no market at all for our loans either from whole loan buyers or through investments in securities backed by our loans. We may require capital in excess of amounts we currently anticipate, and depending on market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to obtain additional capital for our current operations or anticipated future growth on reasonable terms or at all. As the volume of loans that we originate, and the increased suite of products that we make available to members, increases, we may be required to expand the size of our debt warehousing facilities or seek additional sources of capital. The availability of these financing sources depends on many factors, some of which are outside of our control. We may also experience the occurrence of events of default or breaches of financial performance or other covenants under our debt agreements, which could reduce or terminate our access to institutional funding. If we are unable to increase our current sources of funding and secure new or alternative methods of financing, our ability to finance additional loans and to develop and offer new products, such as SoFi Credit Card, will be negatively impacted. The interest rates, advance rates and other costs of new, renewed or amended facilities may also be higher than those currently in effect. If we are unable to renew or otherwise replace these facilities or generally arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may be forced to curtail our origination of loans or reduce lending or other operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If one or more of our warehouse facilities, on which we are highly dependent, is terminated, we may be unable to find replacement financing on favorable terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We require a significant amount of short-term funding capacity for loans we originate. As of December 31, 2021, we had $6.9 billion of warehouse loan funding capacity through 23 warehouse facility arrangements. Additionally, consistent with industry practice, all of our existing warehouse facilities require periodic renewal. If any of our committed warehouse facilities 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS are terminated or are not renewed or our uncommitted facilities are not honored, we may be unable to find replacement financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we might not be able to originate an acceptable or sustainable volume of loans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, as our business continues to expand, including our home loan business, we may need additional warehouse funding capacity for the loans we originate. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will be able to obtain additional warehouse funding capacity on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of the financial or other covenants included in our warehouse facilities, we would be in default under one or more of these facilities and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facilities to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against loans pledged under such facilities and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. Certain of these facilities also contain cross-default provisions. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which could materially and adversely affect us. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with all financial and other covenants included in our warehouse facilities in the future. Increases in member default rates on loans could make us and our loans less attractive to whole loan buyers, lenders under debt warehouse facilities and investors in securitizations, which may adversely affect our access to financing and our business. Increases in member default rates could make us and our loans less attractive to our existing or prospective funding sources, including whole loan buyers, securitizations and debt warehousing facilities. If our existing funding sources do not achieve their desired financial returns or if they suffer losses, they or prospective funding sources may increase the cost of providing future financing or refuse to provide future financing or purchase loans on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our securitizations are non-recourse to SoFi Technologies and are collateralized by the pool of our loans pledged to the relevant securitization issuer. If the loans securing our securitizations fail to perform as expected, the lenders under our warehouse facilities, the whole loan purchasers who purchase our loans, the investors in our securitizations who purchase securities backed by our loans, or future lenders, whole loan purchasers or securitization investors in similar arrangements, may increase the cost of providing future financing or refuse to provide future financing or purchase loans on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we were to be unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we may have to curtail or cease our origination of loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We make representations and warranties in connection with the transfer of loans to whole loan purchasers, government-sponsored enterprises, such as the FNMA, and our debt warehouse lenders and securitization trusts. If such representations and warranties are not correct, we could be required to repurchase loans or indemnify the purchaser, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate and fund our business. We sell the loans we originate to third parties, including, with respect to home loans, counterparties like the FNMA and we make representations and warranties when we sell loans to third parties and in our financing transactions. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to liability under these representations and warranties made to purchasers of loans. Such representations and warranties typically include, among other things, that the loans were originated and serviced in compliance with law and with our credit risk origination policy and servicing guidelines and that, to the best of our knowledge, each loan was originated by us without any fraud or misrepresentation on our part or on the part of the borrower or any other person. In addition, purchasers require loans to meet strict underwriting and loan term criteria in order to be eligible for purchase. If those representations and warranties are breached as to a given loan, or if a certain loan we sell does not meet the relevant eligibility criteria, we will be obligated to repurchase the loan, typically at a purchase price equal to the then-outstanding principal balance of such loan, plus accrued interest and any premium. We may also be required to indemnify the purchaser for losses resulting from the breach of representations and warranties. In connection with our whole loan sales, we also typically covenant to repurchase any loan that enters delinquent status within the first thirty to sixty days following origination of the loan. Any significant increase in our obligation to repurchase home loans or indemnify purchasers of home loans, could have a significant adverse impact on our cash flows, even if they are reimbursable, and could also have a detrimental effect on our business and financial condition. If any such repurchase event occurs on a large scale, we may not have sufficient funds to meet our repurchase obligations, which would result in a default under the underlying agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to resell or refinance loans repurchased due to a breach of a representation or warranty or we may sell such loans below par. Any such event could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our agreements with our lenders contain a number of early payment triggers and covenants. A breach of such triggers or covenants or other terms of such agreements could result in an early amortization, default, and/or acceleration of the related funding facilities which could materially impact our operations. Primary funding sources available to support the maintenance and growth of our business include, among others, securitizations, debt warehouse facilities and corporate revolving debt. Our liquidity would be materially adversely affected by our inability to comply with various covenants and other specified requirements set forth in our agreements with our lenders which could result in the early amortization, default and/or acceleration of our existing facilities. Such covenants and requirements include financial covenants, portfolio performance covenants and other events. For a description of these covenants, requirements and events, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources . During an early amortization period or occurrence of a termination event or an event of default, principal collections from the loans in our asset-based facilities would be applied to repay principal under such facilities rather than being available to fund newly originated loans. During the occurrence of a termination event or an event of default under any of our facilities, the applicable lenders could accelerate the related debt and such lenders commitments to extend further credit under the related facility, if any, would terminate. If we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under such facilities and securitizations, the applicable lenders and noteholders could seek remedies, including against the collateral pledged under such facilities and by the securitization trust. An acceleration of the debt under certain facilities could also lead to a default under other facilities and, in certain instances, our hedging arrangements, due to cross-acceleration provisions. An early amortization event or event of default would negatively impact our liquidity, including our ability to originate new loans, and require us to rely on alternative funding sources, which might increase our funding costs or which might not be available when needed. If we were unable to arrange new or alternative methods of financing on favorable terms, we might have to curtail the origination of loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations under our facilities. We require substantial capital and, in the future, may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and achieve recurring profitability. If adequate capital is not available to us, including due to the cost and availability of funding in the capital markets, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Since our founding, we have raised substantial equity and debt financing to support the growth of our business. Because we intend to continue to make investments to support the growth of our business, we may require additional capital to pursue our business objectives and growth strategy and respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances, including lending to our members, increasing our marketing expenditures to attract new members and improve our brand awareness, developing our other products, introducing new services, further expanding internationally in existing or new countries or further improving existing offerings and services, enhancing our operating infrastructure and potentially acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, on a regular basis we need, or we may need, to engage in additional debt or equity financings to secure additional funds. However, additional funds may not be available when we need them, in amounts we need, or permitted to be applied to specific use cases, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In particular, we may require additional access to capital to support our lending operations. Volatility in the credit markets in general or in the market for student, personal and home loans and credit cards in particular may also have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain debt financing. Furthermore, the cost of our borrowing may increase due to market volatility, changes in the risk premiums required by lenders or if traditional sources of debt capital are unavailable. Volatility or depressed valuations or trading prices in the equity markets may similarly adversely affect our ability to obtain equity financing. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. We are required to serve as a source of financial strength for SoFi Bank, which means that we may be required to provide capital or liquidity support to SoFi Bank, even at times when we may not have the resources to provide such support. In addition, maintaining adequate liquidity is crucial to our securities brokerage and our money services business operations, including key functions such as transaction settlement, custody requirements and margin lending. We meet our liquidity needs primarily from working capital and cash generated by customer activity, as well as from external debt and equity financing. Increases in the number of customers, fluctuations in customer cash or deposit balances, as well as market conditions or changes in regulatory treatment of customer deposits, may affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs. Our broker-dealer subsidiary, SoFi Securities, is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act, which specifies minimum capital requirements 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers, and SoFi Securities is subject to Rule 15c3-3 under the Exchange Act, which requires broker-dealers to maintain certain liquidity reserves. A reduction in our liquidity position could reduce our customers confidence in us, which could result in the withdrawal of customer assets and loss of customers, or could cause us to fail to satisfy broker-dealer or other regulatory capital guidelines, which may result in immediate suspension of securities activities, regulatory prohibitions against certain business practices, increased regulatory inquiries and reporting requirements, increased costs, fines, penalties or other sanctions, including suspension or expulsion by the SEC, FINRA or other self-regulatory organizations (SROs) or state regulators, and could ultimately lead to the liquidation of our broker-dealers or other regulated entities. Factors which may adversely affect our liquidity positions include temporary liquidity demands due to timing differences between brokerage transaction settlements and the availability of segregated cash balances, timing differences between digital asset transaction settlements between us and our digital asset market makers and between us and our digital asset customers, fluctuations in cash held in customer accounts, a significant increase in our margin lending activities, increased regulatory capital requirements, changes in regulatory guidance or interpretations, other regulatory changes or a loss of market or customer confidence resulting in unanticipated withdrawals of customer assets. We expect that we will continue to use our available cash to fund our lending activities and help scale our Financial Services segment. To supplement our cash resources, we may seek to enter into additional securitizations and whole loan sale agreements or increase the size of existing debt warehousing facilities, increase the size of, or replace, our revolving credit facility and pursue other potential options. If we are unable to adequately maintain our cash resources, we may delay non-essential capital expenditures, implement cost cutting procedures, delay or reduce future hiring, discontinue the pursuit of our strategic objectives and growth strategies or reduce our rate of future originations compared to the current level. There can be no assurance that we can obtain sufficient sources of external capital to support the growth of our business. Delays in doing so or failure to do so may require us to reduce loan originations or reduce our operations, which would harm our ability to pursue our business objectives as well as harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are unable to finance all of the receivables that we originate or other assets that we hold, and that illiquidity could result in a negative impact on our financial condition. We operate a gain-on-sale origination model, the success of which is tied to our ability to finance the assets that we originate. Certain of our assets, however, are ineligible for sale to a whole loan buyer or securitization trust, or are ineligible for, or are subject to a lower advance rate under, warehouse funding, each of which has specific eligibility criteria for receivables it purchases or holds as collateral. Ineligible receivables include, among others, those in default or that are delinquent, receivables with defects in their origination or servicing, including fraud, or receivables generated under origination guidelines and credit policies that are no longer in effect. In addition, many of our warehouse funding sources contain excess concentration limits for loans in forbearance or with specific loan level characteristics such as time-to-maturity or loan type. Once these limits have been exceeded, the advance rate applied to those receivables becomes less advantageous to us. If we are unable to sell or reasonably fund these receivables, we are required to hold them on our consolidated balance sheet which, in sufficient volume, negatively impact our financial condition. In addition to the receivables described above, we also hold on our balance sheet certain risk retention assets with respect to which we have a reduced ability to receive financing. These risk retention assets include residuals from our securitization trusts that are either ineligible for transfer or are subject to European Union regulations. The illiquidity of these positions may negatively impact our financial condition. SoFi Credit Card is a relatively new product and any failure to execute our funding strategy for it could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. SoFi Credit Card is a new product and we have limited experience originating and administering it. We began originating credit card receivables in the third quarter of 2020 (and launched the product to a broader market in the fourth quarter of 2020). We established a debt warehouse to finance the credit card receivables in Spring 2021. We may establish a credit card receivable securitization program in the future. There is no guarantee, however, that we will be successful in establishing a securitization program for these assets. In the event we are unable to finance our credit card receivables, we may be required to hold those assets on our consolidated balance sheet or sell them for a loss, either of which could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Regulatory, Tax and Other Legal Risks We are subject to extensive, complex and evolving laws, rules and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced by various federal, state and local government authorities. We are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory regimes. The principal policy objectives of these regulatory regimes are to protect borrowers, investors and other financial services customers and to prevent fraud, money laundering, and terrorist financing. Laws and regulations, among other things, impose licensing and qualifications requirements; require various disclosures and consents; mandate or prohibit certain terms and conditions for various financial products; prohibit discrimination based on certain prohibited bases; prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices; require us to submit to examinations by federal, state and local regulatory regimes; and require us to maintain various policies, procedures and internal controls. Monitoring and complying with all applicable laws and regulations can be difficult and costly. Failure to comply with any of these requirements may result in, among other things, enforcement action by governmental authorities, lawsuits, monetary damages, fines or monetary penalties, restitution or other payments to borrowers or investors, modifications to business practices, revocation of required licenses or registrations, voiding of loan contracts and reputational harm. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings . Our Lending segment is highly regulated, and if we fail to comply with federal and state consumer protection laws, rules, regulations and guidance, our business could be adversely affected. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an agency which oversees compliance with and enforces federal consumer financial protection laws, has supervisory authority over the student and mortgage lending activity in which we engage. The CFPB has the authority to pursue enforcement actions against companies that offer or provide consumer financial products or services, including lenders and loan servicers that engage in unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP). The CFPB may also seek a range of other remedies, including rescission of contracts, refund of money, return of real property, restitution, disgorgement of profits or other compensation for unjust enrichment, damages, public notification of the violation and conduct restrictions (i.e., future limits on the targets activities or functions). In addition, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) or CFPB regulations under Title X, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring certain civil actions. We hold lending licenses or similar authorizations in multiple states, each of which has the authority to supervise and examine our activities. As a licensed consumer lender, mortgage lender, loan broker, collection agency, money services business and loan servicer in certain states, we are subject to examinations by state agencies in those states. Similarly, we are subject to licensure requirements and regulations as an education loan servicer in multiple states. An administrative proceeding, litigation, investigation or regulatory proceeding relating to allegations or findings of the violation of such laws by us, any sub-servicer we engage, or our collection agents, could impair our ability to service and collect on our loans or could result in requirements that we pay damages, fines or penalties and/or cancel the balance or other amounts owing under one or more of our loans. There is no assurance that allegations of violations of the provisions of applicable federal or state consumer protection laws will not be asserted against us, any sub-servicers we engage or our collection agents or other prior owners of our loans in the future. To the extent it is determined that any of our loans were not originated in accordance with all applicable laws, we may be obligated to repurchase such loan from a whole loan buyer, securitization trust or warehouse facility. We must comply with federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the federal and state UDAAP laws, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Military Lending Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the CARES Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. We must also comply with laws on advertising, as well as privacy laws, including the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the TCPA), the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the CAN-SPAM Act, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, applicable laws and regulations of Hong Kong including the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and the Personal Data (Privacy) (Amendment) Ordinance 2012 and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA). Privacy and data security concerns, data collection and transfer restrictions, contractual obligations and U.S. laws and regulations related to data privacy, security and protection could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with applicable law is costly, and our failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local law could lead to: loss of our licenses and approvals to engage in our lending and servicing businesses; 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS damage to our reputation in the industry; governmental investigations and enforcement actions; administrative fines and penalties and litigation; civil and criminal liability, including class action lawsuits; inability to enforce loan agreements; diminished ability to sell loans that we originate or purchase, requirements to sell such loans at a discount compared to other loans or repurchase or address indemnification claims from purchasers of such loans; loss or restriction of warehouse facilities to fund loans; inability to raise capital; and inability to execute on our business strategy, including our growth plans. For example, in the first quarter of 2019, we were subject to a consent order from the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC Consent Order), which resolved allegations that we misrepresented how much money student loan borrowers have saved or would save from financing their loans with us, in violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Under the consent order, we are prohibited from misrepresenting to consumers how much money they would save by using our products, unless the claims are backed up by reliable evidence. In August 2021, we settled charges with the SEC against SoFi Wealth for allegedly breaching its fiduciary duties to clients in connection with the investment of client assets in two ETFs sponsored by Social Finance in 2019. Without admitting or denying the SECs findings, SoFi Wealth agreed to a cease-and-desist order, a censure, a penalty of $300 thousand, and to perform certain undertakings. While we have developed and monitor policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that our compliance policies and procedures will be effective and that we will not be subject to fines and penalties, including with respect to any alleged noncompliance with the FTC Consent Order. Ambiguities in applicable statutes and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct and may make compliance with laws, and risk assessment decisions with respect to compliance with laws, difficult and uncertain. In addition, ambiguities make it difficult, in certain circumstances, to determine if, and how, compliance violations may be cured. We may fail to comply with applicable statutes and regulations even if acting in good faith, or because governmental bodies or courts interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action with respect to our compliance. To resolve issues raised in examinations or other governmental actions, we may be required to take various corrective actions, including changing certain business practices, making refunds or taking other actions that could be financially or competitively detrimental to us. In some cases, regardless of fault, it may be less time-consuming or costly to settle these matters, which may require us to implement certain changes to our business practices, provide remediation to certain individuals or make a settlement payment to a given party or regulatory body. There is no assurance that any future settlements will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We hold state licenses that result in substantial compliance costs, and our business would be adversely affected if our licenses are impaired as a result of non-compliance with those requirements. We currently hold state licenses in connection with our lending activities, our student loan servicing activities, our securities business as well as our money services business activities. Although maintaining state licenses for our lending and servicing activities may become unnecessary as we transition certain of our products to SoFi Bank, for the immediate future, for as long as SoFi Lending Corp. originates or purchases loans, we must comply with certain state licensing requirements and varying compliance requirements in all the states in which we operate and the District of Columbia. Changes in licensing laws may result in increased disclosure requirements, increased fees, or may impose other conditions to licensing that we or our personnel are unable to meet. In most states in which we operate, a regulatory agency or agencies regulate and enforce laws relating to loan servicers, brokers, and originators, collection agencies, and money services businesses. We are subject to periodic examinations by state and other regulators in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, which can result in increases in our administrative costs and refunds to borrowers of certain fees earned by us, and we may be required to pay substantial penalties imposed by those regulators due to compliance errors, or we may lose our license or our ability to do business in the jurisdiction otherwise may be impaired. Fines and penalties incurred in one jurisdiction may cause investigations or other actions by regulators in other jurisdictions. We may not be able to maintain all currently required licenses and permits. If we change or expand our business activities, we may be required to obtain additional licenses before we can engage in those activities. If we apply for a new license, a regulator may determine that we were required to do so at an earlier point in time, and as a result, may impose penalties or refuse to issue the license, which could require us to modify or limit our activities in the relevant state. For 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS example, in 2019, we applied, through a subsidiary, for a Pennsylvania Mortgage Servicer license. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, acting through the Department of Banking and Securities, issued a consent agreement and order, ordering us to pay a $110 thousand fine for engaging in the home loan servicing activity prior to obtaining the license. States may also expand or otherwise modify their current regulations and if such states so act, we may not be able to comply with such updated regulations or maintain all requisite licenses and permits in such states or our costs of compliance with and maintenance of such licenses or permits may materially increase. For example, California, Colorado and Maine have implemented additional regulations related to student loan servicers which impose additional registration, reporting and disclosure requirements and which, if applicable to us, may increase our costs of originating and servicing loans in those states. In addition, the states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our business may later choose to do so, and if such states so act, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all requisite licenses and permits, which could require us to modify or limit our activities in the relevant state or states. The failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our warehouse facilities, other financial arrangements and/or servicing agreements and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance and risk management policies and procedures as a regulated financial services company may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating compliance and risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. As a financial services company operating in the securities industry, among others, our business exposes us to a number of heightened risks. We have devoted significant resources to develop our compliance and risk management policies and procedures and will continue to do so, but there can be no assurance these are sufficient, especially as our business is rapidly growing and evolving. Nonetheless, our limited operating history in many of the products we offer, our evolving business and our rapid growth make it difficult to predict all of the risks and challenges we may encounter and may increase the risk that our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage compliance risks may not be fully effective in mitigating our exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Further, some controls are manual and are subject to inherent limitations and errors in oversight. This could cause our compliance and other risk management strategies to be ineffective. Other compliance and risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, customers, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to us in order to manage certain exposures, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, coinsurance, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of counterparty denial of coverage, default or insolvency. Any failure to maintain effective compliance and other risk management strategies could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to heightened regulatory risk because our business is subject to extensive regulation and oversight in a variety of areas, and such regulations are subject to evolving interpretations and application and it can be difficult to predict how they may be applied to our business, particularly as we introduce new products and services and expand into new jurisdictions. Additionally, the regulatory landscape involving digital assets is constantly evolving and SoFi Digital Assets may be subject to loss of revenue, fines, penalties or loss of regulatory licenses if the SEC or any other regulators issue new regulations or interpretive guidance related to digital assets that prohibit any of our current business practices. Also, due to market volatility, it is difficult to predict how much capital we will need in the future to meet net capital requirements. Any perceived or actual breach of laws and regulations could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is possible that these laws and regulations could be interpreted or applied in a manner that would prohibit, alter or impair our existing or planned products and services. We may become subject to enforcement actions or litigation as a result of our failure to comply with laws and regulations, even though noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations; however, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance in place at the time. For example, we engage in outbound telephone and text communications with consumers, and accordingly must comply with a number of federal and state statutes and regulations that govern said communications and the use of automatic telephone dialing systems (ATDS), and artificial or pre-recorded voice, including the TCPA and Telemarketing Sales Rules. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (the FCC), and the FTC have responsibility for regulating various aspects of some of these laws. Among other requirements, the TCPA requires us to obtain prior express written consent for certain telemarketing calls and to adhere to do-not-call registry requirements which, in part, mandate we maintain and regularly update lists of consumers who have chosen not to be called and restrict calls to consumers who are on the national do-not-call list. Florida and other states have mini-TCPA and other similar consumer protection laws regulating telemarketing directed to 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS their residents. These federal and state laws limit our ability to communicate with consumers and reduce the effectiveness of our marketing programs. As currently construed, the TCPA does not distinguish between voice and data, and, as such, SMS/MMS messages are also calls for the purpose of TCPA obligations and restrictions. For violations of the TCPA, the law provides for a private right of action under which a plaintiff may recover monetary damages of $500 for each call or text made in violation of the prohibitions on certain calls made using an artificial or pre-recorded voice or an ATDS and certain calls made to numbers properly registered on the federal do not call list. A court may treble the $500 amount upon a finding of a willful or knowing violation. There is no statutory cap on maximum aggregate exposure (although some courts have applied in TCPA class actions constitutional limits on excessive penalties). An action may be brought by the FCC, a state attorney general, an individual, or a class of individuals. As with the TCPA, Floridas mini-TCPA restricts certain calls and calls and texts made using an automated system to Florida residents without prior consent, allows a plaintiff to obtain $500 for each call or text made in violation of its prohibitions, and permits a court to treble the $500 amount for willful or knowing violations of the statute. Like other companies that rely on telephone and text communications, we may be subject to putative class action suits alleging violations of the TCPA, Florida mini-TCPA or other similar state laws. If in the future we are found to have violated the TCPA, the Florida mini-TCPA or another federal or state law regulating telemarketing, the amount of damages and potential liability could be extensive and adversely impact our business. Accordingly, were such a class certified or if we are unable to successfully defend such a suit, then the damages could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in consumer finance and other applicable laws and regulations, as well as changes in government enforcement policies and priorities, may negatively impact the management of our business, results of operations, ability to offer certain products or the terms and conditions upon which they are offered, and ability to compete. Consumer finance regulation is constantly changing, and new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to operate as currently intended, and cause us to incur significant expense in order to ensure compliance. Federal and state financial services regulators are also enforcing existing laws, regulations, and rules aggressively and enhancing their supervisory expectations regarding the management of legal and regulatory compliance risks. These regulatory changes and uncertainties make our business planning more difficult and could result in changes to our business model and potentially adversely impact our results of operations. As to the parts of our business that operate as a non-bank lender, we are subject to state licensing and usury laws. Furthermore, to the extent applicable, these laws can impose specific statutory liabilities upon creditors who fail to comply with their provisions and may affect the enforceability of a loan. If the application of consumer protection laws were to cause our loans, or any of the terms of our loans, to be unenforceable against the relevant borrowers, our business will be materially adversely affected. Even if we seek to comply with licensing and other requirements that we believe may be applicable to us, if we are found to not have complied with applicable laws, we could lose one or more of our licenses or authorizations or face other sanctions or penalties or be required to obtain a license in one or more such jurisdictions, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Proposals to change the statutes affecting financial services companies are frequently introduced in Congress and state legislatures that, if enacted, may affect their operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. In addition, numerous federal and state regulators have the authority to promulgate or change regulations that could have a similar effect on our operating environment. We cannot determine with any degree of certainty whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the ultimate impact that any such potential legislation or implementing regulations, or any such potential regulatory actions by federal or state regulators, would have upon our business. New laws, regulations, policy or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business, or reexamination of current practices, could adversely impact our profitability, limit our ability to continue existing or pursue new business activities, require us to change certain of our business practices, affect retention of key personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs and/or customer remediation). These changes also may require us to invest significant resources, and devote significant management attention, to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our business. We are subject to the risk that regulatory or enforcement agencies and/or consumer advocacy groups may assert that our business practices may violate certain rules, laws and regulations, including anti-discrimination statutes. Anti-discrimination statutes, such as the Fair Housing Act and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and state law equivalents, prohibit creditors from discriminating against loan applicants and borrowers based on certain characteristics, such as race, religion and national origin. Various federal regulatory and enforcement departments and agencies, including the Department of Justice and CFPB, take the position that these laws apply not only to intentional discrimination, but also to facially neutral practices that have a disparate impact on a group that shares a characteristic that a creditor may not consider in making credit decisions. State and federal regulators, as well as consumer advocacy groups and plaintiffs attorneys, are 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS focusing greater attention on disparate impact claims. Similarly, these regulatory agencies and litigants could take the position that the geographical footprint within which we conduct lending activity or the manner in which we advertise loans, disproportionately excludes potential borrowers belonging to a protected class, and constitutes unlawful redlining. In addition to reputational harm, violations of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act can result in actual damages, punitive damages, injunctive or equitable relief, attorneys fees and civil money penalties. Our Financial Services segment is subject to the regulatory framework applicable to investment managers and broker-dealers, including regulation by the SEC and FINRA. We offer investment management services through SoFi Wealth LLC, an internet based investment adviser and SoFi Capital Advisors, LLC, which sponsors private investment funds that invest in asset-backed securitizations. Both SoFi Wealth LLC and SoFi Capital Advisors LLC are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the Advisers Act), and are subject to regulation by the SEC. SoFi Securities is an affiliated registered broker-dealer and FINRA member. We offer cash management accounts, which are brokerage products, through SoFi Securities. The investment advisers are subject to the anti-fraud provisions of the Advisers Act and to fiduciary duties derived from these provisions, which apply to our relationships with our members who are advisory clients, as well as the funds we manage. These provisions and duties impose restrictions and obligations on us with respect to our dealings with our members, fund investors and our investments, including for example restrictions on transactions with our affiliates. Our investment advisers have in the past and will in the future be subject to periodic SEC examinations. Our investment advisers are also subject to other requirements under the Advisers Act and related regulations. These additional requirements relate to matters including maintaining effective and comprehensive compliance programs, record-keeping and reporting and disclosure requirements. The Advisers Act generally grants the SEC broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict an investment adviser from conducting advisory activities in the event it fails to comply with federal securities laws. Additional sanctions that may be imposed for failure to comply with applicable requirements include the prohibition of individuals from associating with an investment adviser, the revocation of registrations and other censures and fines. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing members or fail to gain new members. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings . Our subsidiary, SoFi Securities, is an affiliated registered broker-dealer and FINRA member. The securities industry is highly regulated, including under federal, state and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and we may be adversely affected by regulatory changes related to suitability of financial products, supervision, sales practices, advertising, application of fiduciary standards, best execution, and market structure, any of which could limit our business and damage our reputation. FINRA has adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to sales practices, advertising, registration of personnel, compliance and supervision, and compensation and disclosure, to which SoFi Securities and its personnel are subject. FINRA and the SEC also have the authority to conduct periodic examinations of SoFi Securities, and may also conduct administrative proceedings. Additionally, material expansions of the business in which SoFi Securities engages are subject to approval by FINRA. This could delay, or even prevent, the firms ability to expand its securities and brokerage offerings in the future. From time to time, SoFi Securities and SoFi Wealth may be threatened with or named as a defendant in lawsuits, arbitrations and administrative claims. The firm is also subject to periodic regulatory examinations and inspections by regulators (including the SEC and FINRA). Compliance and trading problems or other deficiencies or weakness that are reported to regulators, such as the SEC and FINRA, by dissatisfied customers or others, or that are identified by regulators themselves are investigated by such regulators, and may, if pursued, result in formal claims being filed against SoFi Securities and SoFi Wealth by customers or disciplinary action being taken by regulators against the firm or its employees. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or our own policies and procedures could result in fines, litigation, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, which could have a material effect on our overall financial results. For example, in August 2021, we settled charges with the SEC against SoFi Wealth for allegedly breaching its fiduciary duties to clients in connection with the investment of client assets in two ETFs sponsored by Social Finance by agreeing to a cease-and-desist order, a censure, a penalty of $300 thousand, and to perform certain undertakings. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and our brand and lead to material legal, regulatory and financial exposure (including fines and other penalties), cause us to lose existing members or fail to gain new members. In addition, in the normal course of business, SoFi Securities and SoFi Wealth discuss matters raised by its regulators during regulatory examinations or otherwise upon their inquiry. These matters could result in censures, fines, penalties or other sanctions. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Evolving laws and government regulations could adversely affect our Financial Services segment. Governmental regulation of global financial markets and financial institutions is pervasive and continually evolving. This includes regulation of investment managers and activities, through the implementation of compliance, risk management and anti-money laundering procedures; restrictions on specific types of investments and the provision and use of leverage; capital requirements; limitations on compensation to managers; books and records, reporting and disclosure requirements; and new or increased regulation of the payments industry such as caps on interchange reimbursement fees and increased scrutiny of routing practices. The effects on us of future regulation, or of changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing regulation, could have an adverse effect on our investment strategies or our business model. Policy changes and regulatory reform by the U.S. federal government may create regulatory uncertainty for our members portfolios and our investment strategies and adversely affect our profitability. Our business and reputation may be harmed by changes in business, economic or political conditions that impact global financial markets or by a systemic market event. As a financial services company, our business, results of operations and reputation are directly affected by elements beyond our control, such as economic and political conditions, changes in the volatility in financial markets (including volatility as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic), significant increases in the volatility or trading volume of particular securities, broad trends in business and finance, changes in the volume of securities trading generally, changes in the markets in which such transactions occur and changes in how such transactions are processed. These elements can arise suddenly and the full impact of such conditions can remain uncertain. A prolonged weakness in equity markets, such as a slowdown causing reduction in trading volume in securities, derivatives or digital assets markets, may result in reduced revenues and would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant downturns in the securities markets or in general economic and political conditions may also cause individuals to be reluctant to make their own investment decisions and thus decrease the demand for our products and services and could also result in our customers reducing their engagement with our platform. Conversely, significant upturns in the securities markets or in general economic and political conditions may cause individuals to be less proactive in seeking ways to improve the returns on their trading or investment decisions and, thus, decrease the demand for our products and services. Any of these changes could cause our future performance to be uncertain or unpredictable, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a prolonged weakness in the U.S. equity markets or a general economic downturn could cause our customers to incur losses, which in turn could cause our brand and reputation to suffer. If our reputation is harmed, the willingness of our existing customers, and potential new customers, to do business with us could be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulatory regime governing blockchain technologies and digital assets is uncertain, and new regulations or policies may alter our business practices with respect to digital assets. We currently offer virtual currency and digital asset-related trading services through a subsidiary that is licensed and registered with various governmental authorities as a money service business, money transmitter, virtual currency business or the equivalent. Although many regulators have provided some guidance, regulation of digital assets based on or incorporating blockchain, such as digital assets and digital asset exchanges, remains uncertain and will continue to evolve. Further, regulation varies significantly among international, federal, state and local jurisdictions. As blockchain networks and blockchain assets have grown in popularity and in market size, federal and state agencies are increasingly taking interest in, and in certain cases regulating, their use and operation. For example, SoFi Banks activities with respect to digital assets may be restricted. The conditional approval of the bank charter by the OCC was conditioned on SoFi Bank not engaging in any crypto-related activities or services unless it has received a prior written determination of no supervisory objection from the OCC. In addition, in connection with our approval as a bank holding company, the Federal Reserve determined that certain activities of SoFi Digital Assets, LLC in providing members with the ability to buy or sell various digital currencies through SoFi Digital Assets, LLC's omnibus account with a third-party custodian is not a permissible activity under the Bank Holding Company Act and Regulation Y. However, under Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve has permitted us to continue our current digital assets related offering for a two-year conformance period from the date we became a bank holding company, with the possibility for three one-year extensions, provided that we do not expand our impermissible activities, except as authorized by the Bank Holding Company Act and Regulation Y, or increase our established risk limits for total customer digital assets maintained in wallets that are accessible online, referred to as hot wallets, or held on balance sheet. Treatment of virtual currencies continues to evolve under federal and state law. Many U.S. regulators, including the SEC, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, (the CFTC), the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS), and state regulators including the New York State Department of Financial Services (the NYSDFS), have made official pronouncements or issued guidance or rules regarding the treatment of Bitcoin and other digital currencies. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS The IRS released guidance treating virtual currency as property that is not currency for U.S. federal income tax purposes, although there is no indication yet whether other courts or federal or state regulators will follow this classification. Both federal and state agencies have instituted enforcement actions against those violating their interpretation of existing laws. Other U.S. and many state agencies have offered little official guidance and issued no definitive rules regarding the treatment of digital assets. The CFTC has publicly taken the position that certain virtual currencies, which term includes digital assets, are commodities. To the extent that Bitcoin is deemed to fall within the definition of a commodity interest under the Commodity Exchange Act (the CEA), we may be subject to additional regulation under the CEA and CFTC regulations. As blockchain technologies and digital assets business activities grow in popularity and market size, and as new digital assets businesses and technologies emerge and proliferate, foreign, federal, state and local regulators revisit and update their laws and policies, and can be expected to continue to do so in the future. Changes in this regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements by the government, may significantly affect or change the manner in which we currently conduct some aspects of our business. States may require licenses that apply to blockchain technologies and digital assets. In the case of virtual currencies, state regulators such as the NYSDFS have created regulatory frameworks. For example, in July 2014, the NYSDFS proposed the first U.S. regulatory framework for licensing participants in virtual currency business activity. The regulations, known as the BitLicense, are intended to focus on consumer protection. The NYSDFS issued its final BitLicense regulatory framework in June 2015. The BitLicense regulates the conduct of businesses that are involved in virtual currencies in New York or with New York customers and prohibits any person or entity involved in such activity from conducting such activities without a license. SoFi Digital Assets, LLC currently holds a BitLicense. Other states may adopt similar statutes and regulations which will require us to obtain a license to conduct digital asset activities. In July 2020, Louisiana adopted the Virtual Currency Business Act, which requires operators of virtual currency businesses to obtain a virtual currency license in order to conduct business in Louisiana, and in December 2021, the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions issued guidance establishing how it will license and regulate virtual currency businesses under the act. Other states, such as Florida and Texas, have published guidance on how their existing regulatory regimes governing money transmitters apply to virtual currencies. Some states, such as New Hampshire, North Carolina and Washington, have amended their states statutes to include virtual currencies into existing licensing regimes, while others have interpreted their existing statutes as requiring a money transmitter license to conduct certain virtual currency business activities. SoFi Digital Assets, LLC is licensed as a money transmitter or the equivalent in a majority of states and the District of Columbia, but may be required to obtain additional licenses in light of evolving regulation of virtual currency businesses. It is likely that, as blockchain technologies and the use of virtual currencies continues to grow, additional states will take steps to monitor the developing industry and perhaps require us to obtain additional licenses in connection with our virtual currency activity. There are financial and third party risks associated with using a custodian to store cryptocurrency offerings. Cryptocurrency is a new and emerging asset class and there are financial and third party risks related to our digital assets offerings, such as inappropriate access to or theft or destruction of digital assets held by our custodian, insufficient insurance coverage by the custodian to reimburse us for all such losses, the custodians failure to maintain effective controls over the custody and settlement services provided to us, the custodians inability to purchase or liquidate digital assets holdings, and defaults on financial or performance obligations by counterparty financial institutions. The realization of any one or combination of these risks could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering, economic and trade sanctions regulations, and similar laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Various laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, such as the Bank Secrecy Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. Under these laws and regulations, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters. In 2013, FinCEN issued guidance regarding the applicability of the Bank Secrecy Act to administrators and exchangers of convertible virtual currency, clarifying that they are money service businesses, and more specifically, money transmitters. The Bank Secrecy Act requires money services businesses (MSBs) to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records, among other requirements. State regulators may impose similar requirements on licensed money transmitters. In addition, our contracts with financial institution partners and other third parties may contractually require us to maintain an anti-money laundering 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS program. Our subsidiary, SoFi Digital Assets, LLC, is registered with FinCEN as an MSB. Registration as an MSB subjects us to the regulatory and supervisory jurisdiction of FinCEN and the IRS, the anti-money laundering provisions of the BSA and its implementing regulations applicable to MSBs. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs administered by OFAC, which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers, terrorists or terrorist organizations, and other sanctioned persons and entities. Our failure to comply with anti-money laundering, economic and trade sanctions regulations, and similar laws could subject us to substantial civil and criminal penalties, or result in the loss or restriction of our MSB or broker-dealer registrations and state licenses, or liability under our contracts with third parties, which may significantly affect our ability to conduct some aspects of our business. Changes in this regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements by the government, may significantly affect or change the manner in which we currently conduct some aspects of our business. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to significant adverse consequences, including criminal or civil liability and harm our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.S. domestic bribery laws and other U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public sector. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. Although our operations are currently concentrated in the United States, as we increase our international cross-border business and expand operations abroad, we have engaged and may further engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our services and to obtain necessary permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. The failure to comply with any such laws could subject us to criminal or civil liability, cause us significant reputational harm and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We conduct our brokerage and other business operations through subsidiaries and may in the future rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for a substantial amount of our cash flows. We may in the future depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including any debt obligations we may incur. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds to or from certain subsidiaries, including SoFi Securities and SoFi Bank. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to us, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations, including any debt obligations we may incur and otherwise conduct our business by, among other things, reducing our liquidity in the form of corporate cash. In addition to negatively affecting our business, a significant decrease in our liquidity could also reduce investor confidence in us. Certain rules and regulations of the SEC and FINRA may limit the extent to which our broker-dealer subsidiaries may distribute capital to us. For example, under FINRA rules applicable to SoFi Securities, a dividend in excess of 10% of a member firms excess net capital may not be paid without FINRAs prior written approval. Compliance with these rules may impede our ability to receive dividends, distributions and other payments from SoFi Securities. We have in the past, continue to be, and may in the future be subject to inquiries, exams, pending investigations, or enforcement matters. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation under federal, state, and applicable international laws. From time to time, we have been threatened with or named as a defendant in lawsuits, arbitrations and administrative claims involving securities, consumer financial services and other matters. We are also subject to periodic regulatory examinations and inspections. Compliance and trading problems or other deficiencies or weaknesses that are reported to regulators, such as the SEC, FINRA, the CFPB, or state regulators, by dissatisfied customers or others, or that are identified by regulators themselves, are investigated by such regulators, and may, if pursued, result in formal claims being filed against us by customers or disciplinary action being taken against us or our employees by regulators or enforcement agencies. To resolve issues raised in examinations or other governmental actions, we may be required to take various corrective actions, including changing certain 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS business practices, making refunds or taking other actions that could be financially or competitively detrimental to us. We expect to continue to incur costs to comply with governmental regulations. Any such claims or disciplinary actions that are decided against us could have a material impact on our financial results. Recent statements by lawmakers, regulators and other public officials have signaled an increased focus on new or additional regulations that could impact our business and require us to make significant changes to our business model and practices, and could result in significant costs to our business or loss of current revenue streams. Various lawmakers, regulators and other public officials have recently made statements about our business practices in which we and other broker-dealers engage, including SoFi Securities, and signaled an increased focus on new or additional laws or regulations that, if acted upon, could impact our business. On October 5, 2021, for example, SEC Chair Gary Gensler, speaking before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services, reiterated his view that payment for order flow and exchange rebates may present a number of conflicts of interest. This follows the Spring 2021 House Committee on Financial Services hearings on the events surrounding the January 2021 market volatility and disruptions surrounding GameStop and other meme stocks at which various members of Congress expressed their concerns about various market practices, including payment for order flow (PFOF) and options trading. Gary Gensler previously instructed the staff of the SEC to study, and in some cases make rulemaking recommendations to the SEC regarding, a variety of market issues and practices, including PFOF, so-called gamification, and whether broker-dealers are adequately disclosing their policies and procedures around potential trading restrictions; whether margin requirements and other payment requirements are sufficient; and whether broker-dealers have appropriate tools to manage their liquidity and risk. On October 14, 2021, the SEC issued the Staff Report on Equity and Options Market Structure Conditions in Early 2021. In its report, the SEC concluded that consideration should be given to whether game-like features and celebratory animations that are likely intended to create positive feedback from trading lead investors to trade more than they would otherwise, and that payment for order flow and the incentives it creates may cause broker-dealers to find novel ways to increase customer trading, including through the use of digital engagement practices. In addition, on August 27, 2021, the SEC issued a request for information and comments on broker-dealer and investment adviser digital engagement practices (DEPs), related tools and methods, regulatory considerations, and potential approaches. In its request, the SEC noted that certain competition practices, such as PFOF, in combination with zero commissions, create incentives for firms to use DEPs to encourage frequent trading, and that these incentives may not be transparent to retail investors. The SEC noted that DEPs can potentially harm retail investors if they prompt them to engage in trading activities that may not be consistent with their investment goals or risk tolerance. Previously, on May 6, 2021, in testimony to the House Committee on Financial Services, Chair Gensler also discussed the use of mobile app features such as rewards, bonuses, push notifications and other prompts. Chair Gensler suggested that such prompts could promote behavior that is not in the interest of the customer, such as excessive trading and advised that he had directed the SEC staff to consider whether expanded enforcement mechanisms are necessary. Additionally, on June 9, 2021, Chair Gensler remarked at a public conference that he had instructed the SEC staff to make recommendations for the SECs consideration on best execution, Regulation National Market System, PFOF (both on-exchange and off-exchange), minimum pricing increments and the National Best Bid and Offer. The regulatory agenda published by the SEC on October 4, 2021, identified that the SEC would be considering proposing rules in the next year to modernize equity market structure, including possible new rules on PFOF, best execution (amendments to Rule 605), market concentration and certain other practices. A previous agenda also indicated that the SEC might be considering potential rules related to gamification, behavioral prompts, predictive analytics and differential marketing (although it is unclear if this will materialize). In addition, on March 18, 2021, FINRA issued a regulatory notice reminding member firms of their obligations with respect to maintaining margin requirements, customer order handling and effectively managing liquidity, with a particular focus on best execution practices and the need for member firms to make meaningful disclosures to inform customers of a firms order handling procedures during extreme market conditions. Further, at a public conference on May 19, 2021, FINRA indicated an intention to solicit public feedback, such as through notices or surveys, regarding so-called gamification in order to determine whether to adopt additional guidance or additional rules in that regard. Also, on June 23, 2021, FINRA issued a regulatory notice reminding member firms of the requirement that customer order flow be directed to markets providing the most beneficial terms for their customers and indicated that member firms may not negotiate the terms of order routing arrangements in a manner that reduces price improvement opportunities that would otherwise be available to those customers in the absence of PFOF. To the extent that the SEC, FINRA or other regulatory authorities or legislative bodies adopt additional regulations or legislation in respect of any of these areas or relating to any other aspect of our business, we could face a heightened risk of potential regulatory violations and could be required to make significant changes to our business model and practices, which changes may not be successful. Any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information about the potential impact of legal and regulatory changes, see We are subject to 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS extensive, complex and evolving laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced by various federal, state, and local government authorities . Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information, and adversely affect our business opportunities. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them. For example, we are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) and implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA (i) imposes certain limitations on the ability to share consumers nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties and (ii) requires certain disclosures to consumers about their information collection, sharing and security practices and their right to opt out of the institutions disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions). The GLBA and other state laws also require that we implement and maintain certain security measures, policies and procedures to protect personal information. Furthermore, legislators and/or regulators are increasingly adopting new and/or amending existing privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices; our policies and practices related to the collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information; and some of our current or planned business activities. New requirements, originating from new or amended laws, could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. Compliance with current or future privacy, information security and data protection laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer and/or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services (such as products or services that involve sharing information with third parties or storing sensitive credit card information), which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, there is always a danger that regulators can attempt to assert authority over our business in the area of privacy, information security and data protection. In addition, if our vendors and/or service providers are or become subject to laws and regulations in the jurisdictions that have enacted more stringent and expansive legislation applicable to privacy, information and/or data protection, the costs that these vendors and service providers must incur in becoming compliant may be passed along to us, resulting in increasing costs on our business. Privacy requirements, including notice and opt-out requirements, under the GLBA and the FCRA are enforced by the Federal Trade Commission and by the CFPB through UDAAP and are a standard component of CFPB examinations. State entities also may initiate actions for alleged violations of privacy or security requirements under state law. Our failure to comply with privacy, information security and data protection laws could result in potentially significant regulatory investigations and government actions, litigation, fines or sanctions, consumer or merchant actions and damage to our reputation and brand, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Should we undertake an international expansion of our business, particularly if we commence doing business in one or more countries of the European Union (the EU) or the United Kingdom (the UK), we will be required to comply with stringent privacy and data protection laws. Within the EU, legislators have adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which became effective in May 2018. Should we commence doing business in Europe, the GDPR will impose additional obligations and risk upon our business, which may increase substantially the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. We may incur substantial expense in complying with obligations imposed by the GDPR and we may be required to make significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and our business overall. In addition, further to the UKs exit from the EU on January 31, 2020, the GDPR ceased to apply in the UK at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2020. However, as of January 1, 2021, the UKs European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 incorporated the GDPR (as it existed on December 31, 2020 but subject to certain UK specific amendments) into UK law, referred to as the UK GDPR. The UK GDPR and the UK Data Protection Act 2018 set out the UKs data protection regime, which is independent from but aligned to the EUs data protection regime. Non-compliance with the UK GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 17.5 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is higher. Although the UK is regarded as a third country under the EUs GDPR, the European Commission (EC) has now issued a decision recognizing the UK as providing adequate protection under the EU GDPR and, therefore, transfers of personal data originating in the EU to the UK remain unrestricted. Like the EU GDPR, the UK GDPR restricts personal data transfers outside the UK to countries not regarded by the UK as providing adequate protection. The UK government has confirmed that personal data transfers from the UK to the EEA remain free flowing. 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we do business in the United Kingdom, we will have to comply with both the GDPR and separately the GDPR as implemented in the United Kingdom, each regime having the ability to fine up to the greater of 20 million/17 million or 4% of global turnover. In addition, around the world many jurisdictions outside of Europe are also considering and/or have enacted comprehensive data protection legislation. For example, we are subject to stringent privacy and data protection requirements in Hong Kong. Also, many jurisdictions outside of Europe where we may seek to expand our business in the future are also considering and/or have enacted comprehensive data protection legislation. Additional jurisdictions with stringent data protection laws include Brazil and China. We also continue to see jurisdictions, such as Russia, imposing data localization laws, which under Russian laws require personal information of Russian citizens to be, among other data processing operations, initially collected, stored, and modified in Russia. These regulations may interfere with our intended business activities, inhibit our ability to expand into those markets or prohibit us from continuing to offer services in those markets without significant additional costs. The regulatory framework governing the collection, processing, storage, use and sharing of certain information, particularly financial and other personal information, is rapidly evolving and is likely to continue to be subject to uncertainty and varying interpretations. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with laws in other jurisdictions or with our existing data management practices or the features of our services and platform capabilities. We therefore cannot yet fully determine the impact these or future laws, rules, regulations and industry standards may have on our business or operations. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or any third parties with which we do business, to comply with our posted privacy policies, changing consumer expectations, evolving laws, rules and regulations, industry standards, or contractual obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject, may result in actions or other claims against us by governmental entities or private actors, the expenditure of substantial costs, time and other resources or the imposition of significant fines, penalties or other liabilities. In addition, any such action, particularly to the extent we were found to be guilty of violations or otherwise liable for damages, would damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot yet fully determine the impact these or future laws, rules, regulations and industry standards may have on our business or operations. Any such laws, rules, regulations and industry standards may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions, subject to differing interpretations or may conflict with our current or future practices. Additionally, our customers may be subject to differing privacy laws, rules and legislation, which may mean that they require us to be bound by varying contractual requirements applicable to certain other jurisdictions. Adherence to such contractual requirements may impact our collection, use, processing, storage, sharing and disclosure of various types of information including financial information and other personal information, and may mean we become bound by, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters that may further change as laws, rules and regulations evolve. Complying with these requirements and changing our policies and practices may be onerous and costly, and we may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative and other developments. These changes may in turn impair our ability to offer our existing or planned features, products and services and/or increase our cost of doing business. As we expand our customer base, these requirements may vary from customer to customer, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business. We publicly post documentation regarding our practices concerning the collection, processing, use and disclosure of data. Although we endeavor to comply with our published policies and documentation, we may at times fail to do so or be alleged to have failed to do so. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies or any applicable privacy, security or data protection, information security or consumer-protection related laws, regulations, orders or industry standards could expose us to costly litigation, significant awards, fines or judgments, civil and/or criminal penalties or negative publicity, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The publication of our privacy policy and other documentation that provide promises and assurances about privacy and security can subject us to potential state and federal action if they are found to be deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our actual practices, which could, individually or in the aggregate, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may in the future be subject to federal or state regulatory inquiries regarding our business. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we may receive or be subject to, inquiries or investigations by state and federal regulatory or enforcement agencies and bodies, such as the CFPB, SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the state attorneys general, state financial regulatory agencies, other state or federal agencies, and SROs like FINRA. We also may receive inquiries from state regulatory agencies regarding requirements to obtain licenses from or register with those states, including in states where we have determined that we are not required to obtain such a license or be registered with the state. Any such inquiries or investigations could involve substantial time and expense to analyze and respond to, could divert 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS managements attention and other resources from running our business, and could lead to public enforcement actions or lawsuits and fines, penalties, injunctive relief, and the need to obtain additional licenses that we do not currently possess. Our involvement in any such matters, whether tangential or otherwise and even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation, lead to additional investigations and enforcement actions from other agencies or litigants, and further divert management attention and resources from the operation of our business. As a result, the outcome of legal and regulatory actions arising out of any state or federal inquiries we receive could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings . It may be difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our ability to lend to our members depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate our business processes and know-how, and adversely affect our ability to compete with them. A third party may attempt to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without our consent. The pursuit of a claim against a third party for infringement of our intellectual property could be costly, and there can be no guarantee that any such efforts would be successful. In addition, our platform may infringe upon claims of third-party intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property challenges from such other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. The costs of defending any such claims or litigation could be significant and, if we are unsuccessful, could result in a requirement that we pay significant damages or licensing fees, which would negatively impact our financial performance. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology from intellectual property challenges, our ability to maintain the our platform could be adversely affected. Some aspects of our platform include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. We incorporate open source software into our proprietary platform and into other processes supporting our business. Such open source software may include software covered by licenses like the GNU General Public License and the Apache License or other open source licenses. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that limits our use of the software, inhibits certain aspects of our platform and negatively affects our business operations. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If portions of our proprietary platform are determined to be subject to an open source license, or if the license terms for the open source software that we incorporate change, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our platform or change our business activities. In addition to risks related to license requirements, the use of open source software can lead to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software cannot be eliminated and could adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties to perform certain key functions, and their failure to perform those functions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on certain third-party computer systems or third-party service providers, including cloud technology providers such as Amazon Web Services, internet service providers, payment services providers, market and third-party data providers, regulatory services providers, clearing systems, market makers, exchange systems, banking systems, co-location facilities, communications facilities and other facilities to run our platform, facilitate trades by our customers and support or carry out certain regulatory obligations. In addition, external content providers provide us with financial information, market news, charts, option and stock quotes, digital assets quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we provide to our customers. These providers and any of our other service providers are susceptible to operational, technological and security vulnerabilities, including security breaches, which may impact our business, and our ability to monitor our third-party service providers data security is limited. In addition, these third-party service providers may rely on subcontractors to provide services to us that face similar risks. Any interruption in these third-party services, or deterioration in the quality of their service or performance, could be disruptive to our business. Any failure or security breaches by or of our third-party service providers or their subcontractors that result in an interruption in service, unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data or other similar occurrences could interrupt our business, cause us to incur losses, result in decreased customer satisfaction and increase customer attrition, subject us to customer complaints, significant fines, litigation, disputes, claims, regulatory investigations or other inquiries and harm our 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS reputation. Through contractual provisions and third-party risk management processes, we take steps to require that our providers, and their subcontractors, protect our data and information, including personal data. However, due to the size and complexity of our technology platform and services, the amount of data that we store and the number of customers, employees and third-party service providers with access to personal data, we, our third-party service providers and their subcontractors are potentially vulnerable to a variety of intentional and inadvertent cybersecurity breaches and other security-related incidents and threats, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Any contractual protections we may have from our third-party service providers may not be sufficient to adequately protect us against such consequences, and we may be unable to enforce any such contractual protections. In addition, there is no assurance that our third-party service providers or their subcontractors will be able to continue to provide these services to meet our current needs in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs in the future. An interruption in or the cessation of service by our third-party service providers or their subcontractors, coupled with our possible inability to make alternative arrangements in a smooth, cost-effective and timely manner, could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if there were deficiencies in the oversight and control of our third-party relationships, and if our regulators held us responsible for those deficiencies, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. Litigation, regulatory actions and compliance issues could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments, remediation costs, negative publicity, changes to our business model, and requirements resulting in increased expenses. Our business is subject to increased risks of litigation and regulatory actions as a result of a number of factors and from various sources, including as a result of the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry and the focus of state and federal enforcement agencies on the financial services industry. From time to time, we are also involved in, or the subject of, reviews, requests for information, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by state and federal governmental agencies and SROs, regarding our business activities and our qualifications to conduct our business in certain jurisdictions, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties, obligations to change our business practices and other requirements resulting in increased expenses and diminished earnings. Our involvement in any such matter also could cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor. Moreover, any settlement, or any consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by a government agency, may prompt litigation or additional investigations or proceedings as other litigants or other government agencies begin independent reviews of the same activities. See Regulatory, Tax and Other Legal Risks Our Lending segment is highly regulated, and if we fail to comply with federal and state consumer protection laws, rules, regulations and guidance, our business could be adversely affected for a discussion of the FTC Consent Order and Regulatory, Tax and Other Legal Risks We are subject to state licensing and operational requirements that result in substantial compliance costs, and our business would be adversely affected if our licenses are impaired . In addition, a number of participants in the financial services industry have been the subject of: putative class action lawsuits; state attorney general actions and other state regulatory actions; federal regulatory enforcement actions, including actions relating to alleged unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices; violations of state licensing and lending laws, including state usury laws; actions alleging discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender or other prohibited bases; and allegations of noncompliance with various state and federal laws and regulations relating to originating and servicing consumer finance loans. For example, we are defendants in a putative class action in which it was alleged that we engaged in unlawful lending discrimination through policies and practices by making applicants who are conditional permanent residents or DACA holders ineligible for loans or eligible only with a co-signer who is United States citizen or lawful permanent resident. In January 2022, the parties advised the court that they had reached agreement on nearly all material terms of the settlement, were in the process of documenting the settlement and accompanying class action settlement notice and claim form, and that plaintiffs expected to file a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement on or before March 28, 2022. In addition, Galileo was a defendant in a putative class action in which various claims arising from an intermittent disruption in service experienced by certain holders of deposit accounts at one of Galileos clients, which prevented individuals from accessing or using account funds for a period of time. The parties entered into a class action settlement agreement to resolve the claims in the action. See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings for further information about this action. The current regulatory environment, increased regulatory compliance efforts and enhanced regulatory enforcement have resulted in significant operational and compliance costs and may prevent us from providing certain products and services. There is no assurance that these regulatory matters or other factors will not, in the future, affect how we conduct our business and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, legal proceedings brought under state consumer protection statutes or under several of the various federal consumer financial services statutes may result in a separate fine for 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS each violation of the statute, which, particularly in the case of class action lawsuits, could result in damages substantially in excess of the amounts we earned from the underlying activities. In addition, from time to time, through our operational and compliance controls, we identify compliance and other issues that require us to make operational changes and, depending on the nature of the issue, result in financial remediation to impacted members. These self-identified issues and voluntary remediation payments could be significant, depending on the issue and the number of members impacted, and also could generate litigation or regulatory investigations that subject us to additional risk. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings . Changes in tax law and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements. We operate in multiple jurisdictions and are subject to tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governments. U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations. U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, future changes to U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. tax laws and regulations could increase our tax obligations in jurisdictions where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. We will be adversely affected if we are, or any of our subsidiaries is, determined to have been subject to registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are currently not deemed an investment company subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act). No opinion or no-action position has been requested of the SEC on our status as an Investment Company. There is no guarantee we will continue to be exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act and were we to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, and thus subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, the increased reporting and operating requirements could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, if the SEC or a court of competent jurisdiction were to find that we are in violation of the Investment Company Act for having failed to register as an investment company thereunder, possible consequences include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the SEC could apply to a district court to enjoin the violation; (ii) we could be sued by investors in us and in our securities for damages caused by the violation; and (iii) any contract to which we are a party that is made in, or whose performance involves a, violation of the Investment Company Act would be unenforceable by any party to the contract unless a court were to find that under the circumstances enforcement would produce a more equitable result than nonenforcement and would not be inconsistent with the purposes of the Investment Company Act. Should we be subjected to any or all of the foregoing, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Personnel and Business Continuity Risks We rely on our management team and will require additional key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of key management members or key employees, or an inability to hire key personnel, could harm our business. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management, who have significant experience in the financial services and technology industries, are responsible for our core competencies and would be difficult to replace. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract and retain them. In addition, the loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and strategy, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, many candidates evaluate year over year stock growth trends for a sense of the potential long-term value of their proposed stock awards, or have recently begun to discount the value of growth stocks on the whole. The volatility of the market price of our common stock could harm ability to attract and retain talent. Our executive officers and other employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS The competitive job market creates a challenge and potential risk as we strive to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Competition for our employees, including highly skilled technology and product professionals, is extremely intense reflecting a tight labor market. This can present a risk as we compete for experienced candidates, especially if the competition is able to offer more attractive financial terms of employment. This risk extends to our current employee population. We also invest significant time and expense in engaging and developing our employees, which also increases their value to other companies that may seek to recruit them. Turnover can result in significant replacement costs and lost productivity. In addition, recent U.S. immigration policy has made it more difficult for qualified foreign nationals to obtain or maintain work visas under the H-1B classification. These H-1B visa limitations make it more difficult and/or more expensive for us to hire the skilled professionals we need to execute our growth strategy, especially engineering, data analytics and risk management personnel, and may adversely impact our business. We transitioned to a flexible-first workforce model, which could subject us to increased business continuity and cyber risks, as well as other operational challenges and risks that could significantly harm our business and operations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we transitioned to a flexible-first workforce model that not only puts the health and safety of our employees first, but also takes into account what our employees need to be successful. We now offer all of our employees the choice of working full time in the office, a hybrid approach, or full-time remote. Coming into the office remains 100% voluntary, unless a persons role requires them to be on site to do their job. As a result, we expect to continue to be subject to the challenges and risks of having a remote workforce, as well as new challenges and risks from operating with a hybrid workforce. For example, our employees are accessing our servers remotely through home or other networks to perform their job responsibilities. Such security systems may be less secure than those used in our offices, which may subject us to increased security risks, including cybersecurity-related events, and expose us to risks of data or financial loss and associated disruptions to our business operations. Additionally, employees who access company data and systems remotely may not have access to technology that is as robust as that in our offices, which could place additional pressure on our user infrastructure and third parties that are not easily mitigated. These risks include home internet availability affecting work continuity and efficiency, and additional dependencies on third-party communication tools, such as instant messaging and online meeting platforms. We may also be exposed to risks associated with the locations of remote employees, including compliance with local laws and regulations or exposure to compromised internet infrastructure. Allowing our employees to work remotely may create intellectual property risk if employees create intellectual property on our behalf while residing in a jurisdiction with unenforced or uncertain intellectual property laws. Further, if employees fail to inform us of changes in their work location, we may be exposed to additional risks without our knowledge. While most of our operations can be performed remotely and have operated effectively during the pandemic, there is no guarantee that this will continue or that we will continue to be as effective while operating a flexible-first workforce model because our team is dispersed, many employees may have additional personal needs to attend to (such as looking after children as a result of school closures and mandated quarantines or a family member who becomes sick), and employees may become sick themselves and be unable to work. Additionally, operating our business with both remote and in-person workers, or workers who work in flexible locations and on flexible schedules, could have a negative impact on our corporate culture, decrease the ability of our workforce to collaborate and communicate effectively, decrease innovation and productivity, or negatively affect workforce morale. If we are unable to manage the cybersecurity and other risks of a flexible-first workforce model, and maintain our corporate culture and workforce morale, our business could be harmed or otherwise adversely impacted. Our business is subject to the risks of natural disasters, power outages, telecommunications failures and similar events, including COVID-19 and additional public health crises, and to interruptions by human-made problems such as terrorism, cyberattack, and other actions, which may impact the demand for our products or our members ability to repay their loans. Events beyond our control may damage our ability to maintain our platform and provide services to our members. Such events include, but are not limited to, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, public health crises, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or other infectious diseases, power outages, telecommunications failures and similar events. See COVID-19 Pandemic Risks for further discussion of risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite any precautions we may take, system interruptions and delays could occur if there is a natural disaster, if a third-party provider closes a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or if there are other unanticipated problems at our leased facilities. Because we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high-quality service to our members, disruptions could harm our ability to effectively run our business. Moreover, our members and customers face similar risks, which could directly or indirectly impact our business. For example, in October 2019, one of Galileo's customers experienced intermittent disruptions in service, which prevented its customers from 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS accessing or using their deposit accounts. Galileo was named as a defendant in a putative class action as a result of the disruption in service its customer experienced, captioned as Richards, et. al v. Chime Financial, Inc., Galileo Financial Technologies and The Bancorp, Inc ., Civil Action No. 4:19-cv-6864-HSG (N.D. Cal.), filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in October 2019, and entered into a class action settlement to resolve the claims. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings for further information about this matter. We currently use Amazon Web Services (AWS) and would be unable to switch instantly to another system in the event of failure to access AWS. This means that an outage of AWS could result in our system being unavailable for a significant period of time. Terrorism, cyberattacks and other criminal, tortious or unintentional actions could also give rise to significant disruptions to our operations. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures or other disruptions. Comparable natural and other risks may reduce demand for our products or cause our members to suffer significant losses and/or incur significant disruption in their respective operations, which may affect their ability to satisfy their obligations towards us. All of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Employee misconduct, which can be difficult to detect and deter, could harm our reputation and subject us to significant legal liability. We operate in an industry in which integrity and the confidence of our members is of critical importance. We are subject to risks of errors and misconduct by our employees that could adversely affect our business, including: engaging in misrepresentation or fraudulent activities when marketing or performing online brokerage and other services to our members; improperly using or disclosing confidential information of our members or other parties; concealing unauthorized or unsuccessful activities; or otherwise not complying with applicable laws and regulations or our internal policies or procedures. There have been numerous highly-publicized cases of fraud and other misconduct by financial services industry employees. The precautions that we take to detect and deter employee misconduct might not be effective. If any of our employees engage in illegal, improper, or suspicious activity or other misconduct, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial condition, member relationships, and our ability to attract new members. We also could become subject to regulatory sanctions and significant legal liability, which could cause serious harm to our financial condition, reputation, member relationships and prospects of attracting additional members. Risk Management and Financial Reporting Risks If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm will be required. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. In accordance with the considerations pursuant to Section 215.02 of the SEC Division of Corporation Finances Regulation S-K Compliance & Disclosure Interpretations, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our annual reports on Form 10-K. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal