ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As used in this report, references to us, we, our, our company, our Group, the Sohu Group, the Group, and Sohu.com are to Sohu.com Inc. and, except where the context requires otherwise, our subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) Sohu.com Limited, Sohu.com (Hong Kong) Limited (Sohu Hong Kong), All Honest International Limited (All Honest), Sohu.com (Game) Limited (Sohu Game), Go2Map Inc., Sohu.com (Search) Limited (Sohu Search), Fox Video Investment Holding Limited (Video Investment), Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video), Fox Video (HK) Limited (Video HK), Focus Investment Holding Limited, Sohu Focus Limited, Sohu Focus (HK) Limited, Beijing Sohu New Era Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Era), Fox Information Technology (Tianjin) Limited (Video Tianjin), Beijing Sohu New Media Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Media), Beijing Sohu New Momentum Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu New Momentum), Beijing Century High Tech Investment Co., Ltd. (High Century), Beijing Heng Da Yi Tong Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Heng Da Yi Tong, formerly known as Beijing Sohu Entertainment Culture Media Co., Ltd.), Beijing Sohu Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sohu Internet), Beijing GoodFeel Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu Donglin Advertising Co., Ltd.(Donglin), Beijing Pilot New Era Advertising Co., Ltd. (Pilot New Era), Beijing Focus Yiju Network Information Technology Co., Ltd., SohuPay Science and Technology Co., Ltd., Tianjin Jinhu Culture Development Co., Ltd. (Tianjin Jinhu), Guangzhou Qianjun Network Technology Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou Qianjun), Beijing Modu Legendary Culture Media Co., Ltd., Chongqing Qogir Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Interactive Information Service Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Xin Gan Xian Information Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Real Estate Agency Co., Ltd., our independently-listed subsidiary Sogou Inc. (Sogou) as well as the following direct and indirect subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou: Sogou (BVI) Limited (Sogou BVI), Sogou Hong Kong Limited (Sogou HK), Vast Creation Advertising Media Services Limited (Vast Creation), Sogou Technology Hong Kong Limited (Sogou Technology HK), Beijing Sogou Technology Development Co., Ltd. (Sogou Technology), Beijing Sogou Network Technology Co., Ltd (Sogou Network), Beijing Sogou Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sogou Information), Shenzhen Shi Ji Guang Su Information Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Easypay Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Shi Ji Si Su Technology Co., Ltd., Sogou (Shantou) Internet Small Loan Co., Ltd., Tianjin Sogou Network Technology Co., Ltd, and our independently-listed majority-owned subsidiary Changyou.com Limited (Changyou) as well as the following direct and indirect subsidiaries and VIEs of Changyou: Changyou.com HK Limited (Changyou HK) formerly known as TL Age Hong Kong Limited), Changyou.com Webgames (HK) Limited (Changyou HK Webgames), Changyou.com Gamepower (HK) Limited, ICE Entertainment (HK) Limited (ICE HK), Changyou.com Gamestar (HK) Limited, Changyou.com Korea Limited, Changyou.com India Private Limited, Kylie Enterprises Limited, Mobogarden Enterprises Limited, Heroic Vision Holdings Limited, TalkTalk Limited, RaidCall (HK) Limited, 7Road.com Limited (7Road), 7Road.com HK Limited (7Road HK), Changyou.com (TH) Limited, PT. CHANGYOU TECHNOLOGY INDONESIA, Changyou.com Technology Brazil Desenvolvimento De Programas LTDA, Greative Entertainment Limited (formerly known as Greative Digital Limited), Glory Loop Limited (Glory Loop), TMobi Limited (formerly known as Muse Entertainment Limited), Mobo Information Technology Pte. Ltd., Changyou Mobo Glint Limited, Beijing AmazGame Age Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (AmazGame), Beijing Changyou Skyline Property Management Co. Ltd, Beijing Changyou Chuangxiang Software Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Gamespace Software Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamespace), ICE Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (ICE Information), Beijing Changyou RaidCall Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (RaidCall), Beijing Yang Fan Jing He Information Consulting Co., Ltd. (Yang Fan Jing He), Shanghai Jingmao Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Shanghai Jingmao), Shanghai Hejin Data Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Jingmao Film & Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Beijing Jingmao), Beijing Gamease Age Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamease), Beijing Guanyou Gamespace Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Guanyou Gamespace), Beijing Zhi Hui You Information Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai ICE Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai ICE), Shenzhen 7Road Network Technologies Co., Ltd. (7Road Technology), Beijing Changyou Star Digital Technology Co., Ltd (Changyou Star), Beijing Changyou Creation Information Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Beijing Changyou e-pay Co. Ltd.), Shenzhen Brilliant Imagination Technologies Co., Ltd. (Brilliant Imagination), Wuhan Xingyu Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Creative Technology Co., Ltd., BeiJing Changmica Culture Co., Ltd., HongKong New Xinlang Electron Group Limited, and Shanghai Changhu Software Technology Co.,Ltd., and these references should be interpreted accordingly. Unless otherwise specified, references to China or PRC refer to the Peoples Republic of China and do not include the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Macau Special Administrative Region or Taiwan. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words expect, anticipate, intend, believe, or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 28, 2018, as updated by Part II Item 1A of this report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. -48- Table of Contents OVERVIEW Sohu.com Inc. (NASDAQ: SOHU), a Delaware corporation organized in 1996, is a leading Chinese online media, search and game service group providing comprehensive online products and services on PCs and mobile devices in the Peoples Republic of China (the PRC or China). Our businesses are conducted by Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and VIEs (collectively referred to as the Sohu Group or the Group). The Sohu Group consists of Sohu, which when referred to in these condensed consolidated financial statements, unless the context requires otherwise, excludes the businesses and the corresponding subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou Inc. (Sogou) and Changyou.com Limited (Changyou), Sogou and Changyou. Sogou and Changyou are indirect controlled subsidiaries of Sohu.com Inc. Sohu is a leading Chinese language online media content and services provider. Sogou is an innovator in search and a leader in Chinas internet industry. With a mission to make it easy to communicate and get information, Sogou has grown to become the second largest search engine by mobile queries and the fourth largest internet company by monthly active users (MAU) in China, according to iResearch. Changyou is a leading online game developer and operator in China as measured by the popularity of its PC game Tian Long Ba Bu (TLBB) and its mobile game Legacy TLBB, and engages primarily in the development, operation and licensing of online games for PCs and mobile devices. Most of our operations are conducted through our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs. Factors and Trends Affecting our Business With the accelerated shift in user activities from PCs to mobile devices and an increase in the number of Internet users, the use of various kinds of mobile Internet services continued to increase. At Sohu, we focused our efforts on developing a portfolio of leading mobile products across our business lines that we believed our users would like. Smartphones have reshaped the online media business in China, as in-stream feeds have become a mainstream format through which users have become accustomed to receiving personalized information. To ensure we remain as a premiere destination for our audience, we invested extensively in content and technology for Sohu Media Portal. We continually refined the design of our key product Sohu News APP, and introduced innovative features to meet users appetites. We improved the algorithm used by the recommendation engine of Sohu News APP to enhance the user experience. We also improved our delivery of advertising for small and medium enterprise (SME) customers in order to increase their number. As the user base of Sohu Media Portal gains momentum, we will gradually increase the ad load. We expect advertising revenues to rebound from the second quarter of 2018. Online video services remained one of the most popular Internet applications, and continued to gain viewers from television stations. Due to intensified competition among major players, the price of content, especially the prices of premium TV programs, went up sharply in the past few years. This caused industry-wide financial losses. For Sohu Video, we have changed our content procurement strategy and stopped buying expensive new TV programs. We now concentrate on self-developed content and other short-form video program categories, which are much less expensive than TV content. Leveraging our exclusive original content, we also actively explore opportunities with subscription services that we believe will become an important revenue source in addition to traditional advertising revenues. As a result of these measures, the operating loss of Sohu Video in the first quarter of 2018 decreased by 45% year-on-year. We expect the loss will continue to narrow in the rest of 2018. For our search and search-related business, Sogou is China second-largest search engine by mobile queries. In March 2018, Sogou Search had an 18% market share in China based on mobile queries, as compared to 15% in March 2017, according to iResearch. Sogou continued to strengthen its competitive advantages in search from channel to content, leveraging the robust ecosystem it has built and shared with Tencent. Since October 2017, Tencent has been testing, on a trial basis and for purposes of assessment, the integration of Sogou Search into Weixin/WeChat. With this initiative, users of Weixin/WeChat can use Sogou Search as a general search function within Weixin/WeChat to access Internet information outside Weixin/WeChat. Sogou is working closely with Tencent on product testing and optimization and intend to discuss commercial arrangements upon the completion of the trial stage. In addition, Sogou continued to differentiate its search offerings across key verticals, especially in healthcare, law, and education. It will continue to invest in companies with valuable content, data, and technology, and look to build strategic partnerships through equity investments that help to solidify its competitive edge and drive the long-term growth of its search business. At the same time, Sogou focused on developing AI technology centered on natural language processing, and has made solid progress in voice, computer vision, translation and Q&A. Sogou has further leveraged these AI capabilities to enhance the search experience for users. -49- Table of Contents For Changyous online game business, PC games revenue remained stable and mobile games revenue experienced a decrease during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Changyou intends to be unremitting to further enrich the content and gameplay, address the needs of core users, and extend the lifecycle of its games. While Changyou continues to focus on MMORPG development, it also aims to improve its R&D and product innovation capabilities in advanced casual and simulation games (SLG games). Changyou intends to keep improving game quality and gameplay innovation with the goal of ensuring that its new games follow changes in user needs and the market. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the PC games and mobile games that Changyou operates had approximately 5.1 million total average monthly active accounts and approximately 1.6 million total active paying accounts. Our Business Through the operation of Sohu, Sogou and Changyou, we generate online advertising revenues, including brand advertising revenues and search and search-related advertising revenues; online games revenues; and other revenues. Online advertising and online games are our core businesses. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, total revenues generated by Sohu, Sogou and Changyou were approximately $455.0 million, including: Sohu: $51.2 million in brand advertising revenues, of which $30.7 million was from Sohu Media Portal, $12.6 million was from Sohu Video, and $7.9 million was from Focus; and $18.5 million in other revenues, mainly attributable to revenues from paid subscription services, interactive broadcasting services, content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China, and sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties. Total revenues generated by Sohu were $69.7 million. Sogou: $220.3 million in search and search-related advertising revenues; and $27.8 million in other revenues, attributable to Sogous offering of Internet value-added services (or IVAS), primarily with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties and the provision of online reading services, as well as Sogous offering of other products and services, including smart hardware products. Total revenues generated by Sogou were $248.1 million. Changyou: $105.5 million in online game revenues; $5.1 million in brand advertising revenues, mainly attributable to Changyous 17173.com Website; and $26.6 million in other revenues attributable to Changyous cinema advertising business and IVAS business. Total revenues generated by Changyou were $137.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our total brand advertising revenues were $56.3 million, total search and search-related advertising revenues were $220.3 million, total online game revenues were $105.5 million, and total other revenues were $72.9 million. Sohus Business Brand Advertising Business Sohus main business is the brand advertising business, which offers to users, over our matrices of Chinese language online media, various content, products and services across multiple Internet-enabled devices, such as PCs, mobile phones and tablets. The majority of our products and services are provided through Sohu Media Portal, Sohu Video and Focus. Sohu Media Portal. Sohu Media Portal is a leading online news and information provider in China. Sohu Media Portal provides users comprehensive content through the mobile phone application Sohu News APP, www.sohu.com for PCs and the mobile portal m.sohu.com; -50- Table of Contents Sohu Video. Sohu Video is a leading online video content and service provider in China through tv.sohu.com for PCs and the mobile phone application Sohu Video APP; and Focus. Focus (www.focus.cn) is a leading online real estate information and services provider in China. Revenues generated by the brand advertising business are classified as brand advertising revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Other Sohu Business Sohu also engages in the other business, which consists primarily of paid subscription services, interactive broadcasting services, content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China, and sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties. Revenues generated by Sohu from the other business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous Business Search and Search-related Business The search and search-related business consists primarily of search and search-related advertising services offered by Sogou. Search and search-related advertising services enable advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogous search results pages and other Internet properties and third parties Internet properties where the links are relevant to the subject and content of searches and such properties. Sogous advertising services expand distribution of advertisers promotional links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on third parties Internet properties, including Web content, software, and mobile applications. Our search and search-related business benefits from Sogous collaboration with Tencent, which provides Sogou access to traffic and content generated from users of products and services provided by Tencent. Revenues generated by the search and search-related business are classified as search and search-related advertising revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Other Sogou Business Sogou also offers IVAS, primarily with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties and the provision of online reading services, and offers other products and services, including smart hardware products. Revenues generated by Sogou from the other business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Initial Public Offering of Sogou On November 13, 2017, Sogou completed its IPO on the NYSE, trading under the symbol SOGO. Sogous IPO consisted of ADSs, with each ADS representing one Class A Ordinary Share. Sogou issued and sold in the IPO 50,643,856 Class A Ordinary Shares represented by 50,643,856 ADSs, including 5,643,856 Class A Ordinary Shares represented by 5,643,856 ADSs sold pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option. Proceeds to Sogou from the IPO were approximately $622.1 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized a one-time credit to additional paid-in capital of $278.4 million in shareholders equity in our consolidated balance sheets to reflect an increase in the value of our equity in Sogou that resulted from the completion of Sogous IPO. Sogous Ordinary Shares are divided into Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares. Holders of Class A Ordinary Shares and holders of Class B Ordinary Shares have identical rights with the exception of voting and conversion rights. Each Class A Ordinary Share is entitled to one vote per share and is not convertible. Each Class B Ordinary Share is entitled to ten votes per share and is convertible into one Class A Ordinary Share at any time. -51- Table of Contents Voting Agreement between Sohu and Tencent Pursuant to the Sogou Voting Agreement, which took effect upon the completion of Sogous IPO, and Sogous amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, Sohu has the right to appoint a majority of Sogous Board of Directors, and Sohu continues to consolidate Sogou in Sohus financial statements and provide for noncontrolling interests reflecting ordinary shares in Sogou held by shareholders other than Sohu. Sogous Share Structure As of March 31, 2018, Sogou had a combined total of 397,183,397 Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares issued and outstanding, consisting of: (i) Sohu: 127,200,000 Class B Ordinary Shares held by Sohu for its own account, and 3,717,250 Class A Ordinary Shares held by Sohu for the purpose of issuance upon the exercise of outstanding share-based awards and future share-based awards; (ii) Tencent: 151,557,875 Class B Ordinary Shares; (iii) Photon: 32,000,000 Class A Ordinary Shares; and (iv) Shareholders other than Sohu, Tencent, and Photon: 82,708,272 Class A Ordinary Shares. The totals of Sogou outstanding shares listed above include 10,327,500 Class A Ordinary Shares that are outstanding for legal purposes, but have been determined to be Sogou treasury stock for accounting purposes. Changyous Business Changyous business lines consist of the online game business; the platform channel business, which consists primarily of online advertising and IVAS; and the cinema advertising business. Online Game Business Changyous online game business offers PC games and mobile games to game players. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, meaning that game players can play the games for free, but can choose to pay for virtual items, which are non-physical items that game players can purchase and use within a game, such as gems, pets, fashion items, magic medicine, riding animals, hierograms, skill books and fireworks. Revenues derived from the operation of online games are classified as online game revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. PC Games PC games are interactive online games that are accessed and played simultaneously by hundreds of thousands of game players through personal computers and require that local client-end game access software be installed on the computers used. Changyous dominant game is TLBB, a PC based client-end game. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, revenues from TLBB were $50.8 million, accounting for approximately 48% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 37% of Changyous total revenues and approximately 11% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Mobile Games Mobile games are played on mobile devices and require an Internet connection. In the second quarter of 2017, Changyou launched a new mobile game, Legacy TLBB, which is operated by Tencent under license from Changyou. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, revenues from Legacy TLBB were $28.2 million, accounting for approximately 27% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 21% of Changyous total revenues, and approximately 6% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Web Games Prior to the sale of Shenzhen 7Road in August 2015, Changyous online games also included Web games, which are online games that are played through a Web browser with no local game software installation requirements. Following the sale of Shenzhen 7Road, Web games became an insignificant part of Changyous online game business. -52- Table of Contents Platform Channel Business Changyous platform channel business consists primarily of the operation of the 17173.com Website and RaidCall. Prior to the sale of MoboTap in March 2018, Changyous platform channel business also included MoboTap. 17173.com Website The 17173.com Website is one of the leading information portals in China, and provides news, electronic forums, online videos and other information services regarding online games to game players. All revenues generated by the 17173.com Website are classified as brand advertising revenues. RaidCall RaidCall provides online music and entertainment services, primarily in Taiwan. All revenues generated by RaidCall from IVAS are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. MoboTap MoboTap provides (a) software applications for PCs and mobile devices through the Dolphin Browser, which is a gateway to a host of user activities on mobile devices with the majority of its users based in overseas markets, and (b) domestic online card and board games. IVAS revenues generated by the Dolphin Browser are classified as other revenues and online card and board games revenues generated by MoboTap are classified as online game revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Changyou disposed of MoboTap for $3.0 million in the first quarter of 2018. Cinema Advertising Business Changyou also operates a cinema advertising business, which consists primarily of the acquisition from operators of movie theaters, and the sale to advertisers, of pre-film advertising slots, which are advertisements shown before the screening of a movie in a cinema theatre. Revenues generated by Changyous cinema advertising business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Changyous Share Structure As of March 31, 2018, Changyou had a combined total of 105,836,420 Class A and Class B Ordinary Shares issued and outstanding, consisting of: (i) Sohu.com Inc.: 1,500,000 Class A Ordinary Shares and 70,250,000 Class B Ordinary Shares; and (ii) Public shareholders: 34,086,420 Class A Ordinary Shares. As of March 31, 2018, we held approximately 68% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 95% of the total voting power in Changyou. As Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our financial statements and provide for noncontrolling interests reflecting ordinary shares in Changyou held by shareholders other than us. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations relates to our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Identified below are the accounting policies that reflect our most significant estimates and judgments, and those that we believe are the most critical to fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements. -53- Table of Contents Basis of Consolidation and Recognition of Noncontrolling Interest Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. All intra-Group transactions are eliminated. VIE Consolidation Our VIEs are wholly or partially owned by certain of our employees as nominee shareholders. For our consolidated VIEs, management made evaluations of the relationships between us and our VIEs and the economic benefit flow of contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In connection with such evaluation, management also took into account the fact that, as a result of such contractual arrangements, we control the shareholders voting interests in these VIEs. As a result of such evaluation, management concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of our consolidated VIEs. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition Noncontrolling interests are recognized to reflect the portion of the equity of subsidiaries and VIEs which is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the controlling shareholder. Currently, the noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements primarily consist of noncontrolling interests for Sogou and Changyou. Noncontrolling Interest for Sogou Sogou completed its IPO on the NYSE in November 2017. Prior to the completion of Sogous IPO, Sohu.com Inc. controlled the election of a majority of the Board of Directors of Sogou pursuant to a shareholders agreement that expired upon the completion of the IPO. Following the completion of Sogous IPO, pursuant to the Sogou Voting Agreement and Sogous amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, Sohu.com Inc. still has the right to appoint a majority of Sogous Board of Directors. As Sogous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Sogou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting economic interests in Sogou held by shareholders other than us (the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders). Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition before Sogous IPO Based on the principles of allocation of Sogous profit and loss set forth below, Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity/(deficit) and adjustments for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards that were unvested and vested but not yet settled and the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders investments in Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares, Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares, Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares, and Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares, were accounted for as a noncontrolling interest classified as permanent equity in our consolidated balance sheets, as we had the power to reject a redemption requested by the noncontrolling shareholders. These treatments were based on the terms governing investment, and on the terms of the classes of Sogou shares held, by the noncontrolling shareholders in Sogou before Sogous IPO. Principles of Allocation of Sogous Profit and Loss - By virtue of the terms of the Sogou Pre-IPO Preferred Shares, Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares, and Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares, Sogous losses were allocated in the following order before Sogous IPO: (i) net losses were allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (ii) additional net losses were allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (iii) additional net losses were allocated to the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares until its basis in Sogou decreased to zero; and (iv) further net losses were allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Net income from Sogou was allocated in the following order before Sogous IPO: (i) net income was allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou until their basis in Sogou increased to zero; -54- Table of Contents (ii) additional net income was allocated to the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares to bring its basis back; (iii) additional net income was allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares to bring their basis back; (iv) further net income was allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares to bring their basis back; and (v) further net income was allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition after Sogous IPO Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, based on their share of the economic interest in Sogou, along with changes in shareholders equity and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to share-based awards that are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in our ownership percentage in Sogou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Noncontrolling Interest for Changyou Changyou is a public company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of March 31, 2018, we held approximately 68% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 95% of the total voting power in Changyou. As Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than us (the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders). Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, based on their share of the economic interest in Changyou. Changyous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity, adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in our ownership in Changyou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Segment Reporting Our Groups segments are business units that offer different services and are reviewed separately by the chief operating decision maker (the CODM), or the decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The CODM is Sohu.com Inc.s Chief Executive Officer. Revenue Recognition Adoption of ASC 606 On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, applying the modified retrospective method to contracts that were not completed as of January 1, 2018. Adoption did not have a material impact on accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018. Results for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under ASC 605. Under ASC 605, advertising-for-advertising barter transactions for which the fair value of the advertising services was not determinable was recorded at the carrying amount of the advertising surrendered since we did not settle such barter transactions with the counterparties in cash. As ASC 605 has been superseded by ASC 606 on this subject, advertising-for-advertising barter transactions should be recorded at the fair value of the advertising received by reference to the fair value of advertising services provided to other customers. The impact for the first quarter of 2018 was an increase of approximately $6.7 million in revenues, with a corresponding increase in cost of revenues and sales and marketing expenses, most of which were generated from Sogou for services provided to and received from Tencent. To a lesser extent, there is a potential impact on our accounting for exchanges of brand advertising placements with other platforms by Sohu. Revenues are recognized in the same amount with costs and expenses. Therefore, there was no net profit and loss impact to us for the first quarter of 2018. -55- Table of Contents The following table illustrates the effect of the adoption of ASC 606 by presenting a comparison of selected line items from the Groups condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as actually reported and as they would have been reported under ASC 605, without the adoption of ASC 606 (in thousands, except per share data): As reported Without adoption of ASC 606 Effect of change Higher/(Lower) Revenue-Online advertising-Brand advertising $ 56,254 55,913 341 Revenue-Online advertising-Search and search related advertising 220,301 213,987 6,314 Cost of revenue- Online advertising-Search and search related advertising 144,696 138,955 5,741 Gross profit 194,162 193,248 914 Operating expenses- Sales and marketing 90,273 89,359 914 Operating loss (31,490 ) (31,490 ) 0 Income tax expenses 63,379 63,379 0 Net loss (87,201 ) (87,201 ) 0 Basic net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. (2.39 ) (2.39 ) 0 Diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. (2.39 ) (2.39 ) 0 The adoption of ASC 606 did not change our condensed consolidated balance sheet, condensed consolidated statement of cash flows, or condensed consolidated statement of changes in equity for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The recognition of revenues involves certain management judgments, including estimated lives of virtual items purchased by game players, the estimation of the fair value of an advertising-for-advertising barter transaction, allocation of upfront license fees for licensed-out games between license and post-sale services, and the volume sales rebates. We do not believe that significant management judgements are involved in revenue recognition, but the amount and timing of our revenues could be different for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. The following table presents our revenues disaggregated by products and services (unaudited): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 (in thousands) Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 (in thousands) Sohu Sogou Changyou Total Sohu Sogou Changyou Total Brand advertising: Sohu Media Portal $ 30,674 0 0 30,674 $ 36,844 0 0 36,844 Sohu Video 12,635 0 0 12,635 21,696 0 0 21,696 Focus 7,868 0 0 7,868 17,018 0 0 17,018 17173.com Website 0 0 5,078 5,078 0 0 5,854 5,854 Search and search related advertising 0 220,301 0 220,301 0 142,035 0 142,035 Online games: PC games 0 0 59,425 59,425 0 0 64,881 64,881 Mobile games 0 0 45,735 45,735 0 0 19,838 19,838 Other games 0 0 301 301 0 0 606 606 Others: Paid subscription services 9,257 0 0 9,257 6,316 0 0 6,316 Cinema advertising business 0 0 24,870 24,870 0 0 24,600 24,600 Others 9,305 27,749 1,797 38,851 10,090 20,234 4,091 34,415 Total $ 69,739 248,050 137,206 454,995 $ 91,964 162,269 119,870 374,103 As noted above, in accordance with the modified retrospective method upon adoption of ASC 606, prior period amounts have not been adjusted. -56- Table of Contents Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues include revenues from brand advertising services as well as search and search-related advertising services. Certain customers may receive sales rebates, which are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate annual expected revenue volume of each individual agent with reference to their historical results. The sales rebate will reduce revenues recognized. We recognize revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our advertisers, after deducting sales rebates and net of value-added tax (VAT) and related surcharges. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration. Brand Advertising Revenues Revenue Recognition of Multiple Performance Obligations Our contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, we allocate revenues to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling prices of each distinct performance obligation based on the prices charged to customers when sold on a standalone basis. Where standalone selling price is not directly observable, we generally estimate selling prices based on when they are sold to customers of a similar nature and geography. Most of such contracts have all performance obligations completed within the same quarter. Pricing Model Through PCs and mobile devices, we provide advertisement placements to our advertisers on different Internet platforms and in different formats, which include banners, links, logos, buttons, full screen, pre-roll, mid-roll, post-roll video screens, pause video screens, loading page ads, news feed ads and in-feed video infomercial ads. Currently we have three main types of pricing models, consisting of the Fixed Price model, the Cost Per Impression (CPM) model, and the Cost Per click (CPC) model. (i) Fixed Price model Under the Fixed Price model, a contract is signed to establish a fixed price for the advertising services to be provided. Given the advertisers benefit from the displayed advertising evenly, we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the period of display, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. (ii) CPM model Under the CPM model, the unit price for each qualifying display is fixed and stated in the contract with the advertiser. A qualifying display is defined as the appearance of an advertisement, where the advertisement meets criteria specified in the contract. Given that the fees are priced consistently throughout the contract and the unit prices are consistent with the our pricing practices with similar customers, we recognize revenue based on the fixed unit prices and the number of qualifying displays upon occurrence of display, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. (iii) CPC model Under the CPC model, there is no fixed price for advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser and the unit price for each click is auction-based. We charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the advertisements. Given that the fees are priced consistently throughout the contract and the unit prices are consistent with our pricing practices with similar customers, we recognize revenue based on qualifying clicks and the unit price upon the occurrence of a click, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Search and search-related services consist primarily of search and search-related advertising services offered by Sogou. Pay-for-click Services Pay for click services enable advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogou search result pages and other Internet properties and third parties Internet properties where the links are relevant to the subject and content of searches and such properties. For pay -57- Table of Contents for click services, Sogou introduces Internet users to its advertisers through auction-based pay-for-click systems and charges advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Revenue for pay-for-click services is recognized on a per click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Other Online Advertising Services Other online advertising services mainly consist of displaying advertisers promotional links on Sogous Internet properties. Revenue for time-based advertising is normally recognized on a straight-line basis over the advertising period, provided Sogous obligations under the contract and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue for performance-based advertising services is recognized when Sogous performance obligations under the contract have been satisfied. Sogous online advertising services expand distribution of advertisers promotional links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on third parties Internet properties, including Web content, software, and mobile applications. Sogou is the primary obligor to the advertisers and payments made to operators of third-party Internet properties are included in traffic acquisition costs, which are included in cost of search and search-related advertising revenues. Online Game Revenues Changyous online game revenues are generated primarily from its self-operated and licensed-out PC games and mobile games. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where the basic game play functions are free of charge and players are charged for purchases of in-game virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time and perpetual virtual items. Changyou is the primary obligor of its self-operated games. Changyou hosts the games on its own servers and is responsible for the sale and marketing of the games as well as customer service. Accordingly, revenues are recorded gross of revenue sharing-payments to third-party developers and/or mobile APP stores, but net of VAT and discounts to game card distributors where applicable. Changyou obtains revenues from the sale of in-game virtual items. Revenues are recognized as the virtual items are consumed or over the estimated lives of the virtual items, which are estimated by considering the average period that paying players typically play Changyous games and other player behavior patterns derived from operating data. If different assumptions were used in deriving the estimated lives of the virtual items, the timing of the recording of the revenues could be impacted. PC Games Proceeds from Changyous self-operated PC games are collected from players and third-party game card distributors through sales of Changyous game points on its online payment platform and prepaid game cards. Changyous self-operated PC games are either developed in house or licensed from third-party developers. For licensed PC games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements, and keeps the balance. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Mobile Games Self-operated Mobile Games For self-operated mobile games, Changyou sells game points to its game players via third-party mobile APP stores. The mobile APP stores in turn pay Changyou proceeds after deducting their share of pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. Changyous self-operated mobile games are either developed in house or licensed from or jointly developed with third-party developers. For licensed and jointly developed mobile games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements, and keeps the balance. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to mobile application stores and third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Licensed Out Mobile Games Changyou also authorizes third parties to operate its mobile games. Licensed out games mainly include mobile games developed in house Legacy TLBB and mobile games jointly developed with third-party developers. For mobile games developed in house, the license arrangements also include post-sale services. Changyou receives monthly revenue-based royalty payments from all the third-party licensee operators. Changyou receives additional up-front license fees from certain third-party licensee operators who are -58- Table of Contents entitled to an exclusive right to operate Changyous games in specified geographic areas. Changyou determined that the game license and the post-sale services are distinct performance obligations and that the up-front license fee should be allocated between the license and the post-sale services based on the relative standalone selling price, which is determined by using expected cost plus margin. The amounts allocated to the license should be recognized upon the commencement of the license period, given that the license is considered to be a functional license, and the amount allocated to post-sale services should be recognized over the service period on a straight-line basis as the post-sale services are regarded to be performed evenly. The monthly revenue-based royalty payments are recognized when the sales occur, provided that collectability is reasonably assured. Changyou views the third-party licensee operators as Changyous customers and recognizes revenues on a net basis, as Changyou does not have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the game services. Changyou remits to the third-party developers a pre-agreed percentage of revenues pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements, and keeps the balance. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are included in Changyous cost of revenues or product development expenses. Other Revenues Sohu Other revenues attributable to Sohu consist primarily of revenues from paid subscription services, interactive broadcasting services, content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China, and sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties. Sogou Other revenues attributable to Sogou are IVAS revenues, which are mainly from the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties and the provision of online reading services, and revenues from other products and services, including smart hardware products. Changyou Other revenues attributable to Changyou are primarily from its cinema advertising business and from IVAS. In its cinema advertising business, Changyou provides clients advertising placements in slots that are shown in theaters before the screening of movies. The rights to place advertisements in such advertising slots are granted to Changyou, which takes inventory risk under the contracts Changyou signs with different theaters. When all the recognition criteria are met, revenues from cinema advertising are recognized based on a percentage of the advertising slots actually delivered. As Changyou is considered to be the principal in the arrangements with the theaters, the fees paid to the theaters are recognized as cost of revenues. Changyou provides IVAS primarily through software applications for PCs and mobile devices offered by RaidCall. Revenues from IVAS are recognized during the period the services are rendered or items are consumed under the gross method, as Changyou is the principal obligor for provision of the services. Contract Balances Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers. Accounts receivable represent amounts invoiced and revenue recognized prior to invoicing, when we have satisfied our performance obligations and have the unconditional right to payment. The allowance for doubtful accounts and authorized credits is estimated based upon our assessment of various factors, including historical experience, the age of the accounts receivable balances, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect our customers ability to pay. Contract assets as of March 31, 2018 were not material. The allowance for doubtful accounts and authorized credits was $5.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Receipts in advance and deferred revenue related to unsatisfied performance obligations at the end of the period and consist of fees received from the game players with online gaming business and advertisers with searching and searching related advertising business. Due to the generally short-term duration of the contracts, the majority of the performance obligations are satisfied in the following reporting period. The amount of revenue recognized that was included in the receipts in advance and deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was $104.3 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018. There is no significant change in contract liability balance during the first quarter of 2018. -59- Table of Contents Revenue recognized in the current period from performance obligations related to prior periods was not material. Practical Expedients We have used the following practical expedients as allowed under ASC 606: (i) The transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, has not been disclosed as substantially all of the our contracts have a duration of one year or less. (ii) Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of prepayment or payment within one year or less. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined that our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. (iii) We applied the portfolio approach in determining the commencement date of consumption and the estimated lives of virtual items for the recongnition of games revenue given that the effect of applying a portfolio approach to a group game players behaviors would not differ materially from considering each one of them individually. (iv) We generally expense sales commissions when incurred, because the amortization period would be one year or less. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, technical service fees, content and license expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, facilities expenses. These expenses are incurred for the enhancement and maintenance of our Internet platforms as well as for our products and services, including the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and maintenance costs after the online games are available for marketing. Advertising Expenses Advertising expenses are included in sales and marketing expenses, and generally represent the expenses of promotions to create or stimulate a positive image of us or a desire to subscribe for our products and services. Advertising and promotional expenses are expensed as incurred. Share-based Compensation Expense Sohu (excluding Fox Video Limited), Sogou, Changyou, and Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video) have incentive plans for the granting of share-based awards, including stock options, share options and restricted share units, to members of the boards of directors, management and other key employees. For share-based awards for which a grant date has occurred, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income based on the fair value of the related share-based awards on their grant dates. For share-based awards for which the service inception date precedes the grant date, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income beginning on the service inception date and is re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the related share-based awards. Share-based compensation expense is charged to the shareholders equity or noncontrolling interest section in the consolidated balance sheets. The assumptions used in share-based compensation expense recognition represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change or different assumptions are used, our share-based compensation expense could be materially different for any period. Moreover, the estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value that ultimately will be realized by employees who receive equity awards. -60- Table of Contents Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, and Changyou Share-based Awards Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of stock options granted by Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) as share-based awards before 2006, the Black-Scholes valuation model was applied. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Sohu common stock contractually granted under the Sohu 2010 Stock Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25, no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Sohu and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55, as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair value at the grant date. In determining the fair values of the stock options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. Sogou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sogou as share-based awards, a binomial valuation model was applied. The determination of the fair value is affected by the fair value of the ordinary shares as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables, including risk-free interest rates, exercise multiples, expected forfeiture rates, expected share price volatility rates, and expected dividends. Before the completion of Sogous IPO, the fair values of the ordinary shares were assessed using the income approach/discounted cash flow method or based on the mid-point of the estimated IPO price range, in each case with a discount for lack of marketability, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. After the completion of Sogous IPO, the fair values of the ordinary shares were determined based on the market price of Sogou ADSs. Certain persons who became Sogou employees when Tencents Soso search and search-related businesses were transferred to Sogou on September 16, 2013 had been granted restricted share units under Tencents share award arrangements prior to the transfer of the businesses to Sogou. These Tencent restricted share units will continue to vest under the original Tencent share award arrangements provided the transferred employees continue to be employed by Sogou during the requisite service period. After the transfer of the Soso search and search-related businesses to Sogou, Sogou applied the guidance in ASC 505-50 to measure the related compensation expense, as the expense is deemed to have been incurred by Tencent as an investor on Sogous behalf, based on the then-current fair value at each reporting date. To determine the then-current fair value of the Tencent restricted share units granted to these employees, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was applied. Because Sogou is not required to reimburse Tencent for such share-based compensation expense, the related amount was recorded by Sogou as a capital contribution from Tencent. Changyou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of ordinary shares and restricted share units granted by Changyou as share-based awards in 2008, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted after Changyous IPO, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Changyou Class A ordinary shares contractually granted under the Changyou 2014 Share Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25, no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Changyou and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55, as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair values at the grant date. In determining the fair values of Changyou share options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. -61- Table of Contents Compensation Expense Recognition For options and restricted share units granted with respect to Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) shares and Changyou shares, compensation expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For share options granted with respect to Sogou shares, compensation expense is recognized over the estimated period during which the service period requirement and performance target will be met, which is usually within one year, or, after the performance target of Sogous completion of an IPO was met upon the completion of Sogous IPO on November 13, 2017, on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, or, for options with only service period requirement, on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses, compensation expense is recognized by Sogou on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, and the fair value of the share-based compensation is re-measured at each reporting date until the service has been provided. The number of share-based awards for which the service is not expected to be rendered over the requisite period is estimated, and no compensation expense is recorded for the number of awards so estimated. For Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares repurchased from our former President and Chief Financial Officer in the first quarter of 2017, share-based compensation expense was recognized by us in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income in an amount equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares at the repurchase date. Sohu Video Share-based Awards On January 4, 2012, Sohu Video, the holding entity of Sohus video division, adopted a 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the Video 2011 Share Incentive Plan) which provides for the issuance of up to 25,000,000 ordinary shares of Sohu Video (representing approximately 10% of the outstanding Sohu Video shares on a fully-diluted basis) to management and key employees of the video division and to Sohu management. As of March 31, 2018, grants of options for the purchase of 16,368,200 ordinary shares of Sohu Video had been contractually made, of which options for the purchase of 4,972,800 ordinary shares were vested. For purposes of ASC 718-10-25, as of March 31, 2018, no grant date had occurred, because the broader terms and conditions of the option awards had neither been finalized nor mutually agreed upon with the recipients. Therefore the fair value of the awards was not determinable and could not be accounted for. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55, our management determined that the service inception date with respect to vested option awards for the purchase of 4,972,800 shares had preceded the grant date. Therefore, we recognized compensation expense for these vested Sohu Video share-based awards and re-measured, and will re-measure, the compensation expense on each subsequent reporting date based on the then-current fair values of these vested awards until the grant date is established. Taxation Income Taxes Recognition Income taxes are accounted for using an asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if based on available evidence, it is considered that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making such determination, we consider factors including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future profitability, and tax planning strategies. If events were to occur in the future that would allow us to realize more of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the deferred tax assets that would increase income for the period when those events occurred. If events were to occur in the future that would require us to realize less of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that would decrease income for the period when those events occurred. Significant management judgment is required in determining income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets are related to net operating losses and temporary differences between accounting basis and tax basis for our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs, which are subject to corporate income tax in the PRC under the CIT law. -62- Table of Contents Applicable Income Tax Rate Principal Entities Qualified as HNTEs The CIT Law generally applies an income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises but grants preferential tax treatment to HNTEs. Under this preferential tax treatment, HNTEs can enjoy an income tax rate of 15%, but need to re-apply every three years. During this three-year period, an HNTE must conduct a qualification self-review each year to ensure it meets the HNTE criteria and is eligible for the 15% preferential tax rate for that year. If an HNTE fails to meet the criteria for qualification as an HNTE in any year, the enterprise cannot enjoy the 15% preferential tax rate in that year, and must instead use the regular 25% CIT rate. As of March 31, 2018, the following principal entities were qualified as HNTEs and were entitled to an income tax rate of 15%. For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. Sohu New Momentum qualified as an HNTE for the years 2016 through 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. Sohu Internet. Sohu Internet qualified as an HNTE for the years 2015 through 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in November 2017 and December 2017, respectively. New Media and Guangzhou Qianjun are entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as HNTEs for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. For Sogous Business Sogou Information. Sogou Information qualified as an HNTE for the years 2015 through 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. Sogou Technology. Sogou Technology re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in December 2017. Sogou Technology is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as an HNTE for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Sogou Network. Sogou Network qualified as an HNTE for the years 2016 through 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. For Changyous Business Gamease and AmazGame. Gamease and AmazGame re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in October 2017 and December 2017, respectively. Gamease and AmazGame are entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as HNTEs for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Gamespace. Gamespace qualified as HNTE for the years 2016 through 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. Principal Entities Qualified as Software Enterprises and KNSEs The CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise is entitled to an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a Key National Software Enterprise (a KNSE) is entitled to a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10%. Enterprises wishing to enjoy the status of a Software Enterprise or a KNSE must perform a self-assessment each year to ensure they meet the criteria for qualification and file required supporting documents with the tax authorities before using the preferential CIT rates. These enterprises will be subject to the tax authorities assessment each year as to whether they are entitled to use the relevant preferential CIT treatments. If at any time during the preferential tax treatment years an enterprise uses the preferential CIT rates but the relevant authorities determine that it fails to meet applicable criteria for qualification, the relevant authorities may revoke the enterprises Software Enterprise/KNSE status. -63- Table of Contents For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. In 2017, Sohu New Momentum completed a self-assessment, filed required supporting documents, and was qualified as a Software Enterprise, which entitled it to the first year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% for 2016. Sohu New Momentum will follow the same process in 2018 to entitle it to the second year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% for 2017. For Sogous Business Sogou Technology. In 2017, Sogou Technology completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016. In 2017, Sogou Technology was qualified as a KNSE after the relevant government authorities assessment and was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2016. Sogou Technology will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. For Changyous Business AmazGame. In 2017, AmazGame completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016. Also in 2017, AmazGame was qualified as a KNSE after the relevant government authorities assessment and was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2016. AmazGame will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. PRC Withholding Tax on Dividends The CIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by foreign invested enterprises in the PRC to their immediate holding companies outside Mainland China. A lower withholding tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. A holding company in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% withholding tax rate under an arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital, if such holding company is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC foreign invested enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong holding company is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividend will remain subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. PRC Value Added Tax On May 1, 2016, the transition from the imposition of Business Tax to the imposition of VAT was expanded to all industries in China, and all of our revenues have been subject to VAT since that date. To record VAT payable, we adopted the net presentation method, which presents the difference between the output VAT (at a rate of 6%) and the available input VAT amount (at the rate applicable to the supplier). U.S. Corporate Income Tax Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation that is subject to U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income at a rate of up to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and of up to 35% for prior tax years. U.S. federal tax legislation signed into law on December 22, 2017, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform), significantly modified the U.S. Internal Revenue Code by, among other things, reducing the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017; limiting and/or eliminating many business deductions; migrating the U.S. to a territorial tax system with a one-time transition tax on a mandatory deemed repatriation of previously deferred foreign earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries; subject to certain limitations, generally eliminating U.S. corporate income tax on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; and providing for new taxes on certain foreign earnings. Taxpayers may elect to pay the one-time transition tax over eight years, or in a single lump-sum payment. -64- Table of Contents Certain activities conducted in the PRC may result in U.S. corporate income taxes being imposed on Sohu.com Inc. when its subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) generate income that is subject to Subpart F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Subpart F). Generally, passive income, such as rents, royalties, interest, dividends, and gains from disposal of our investments, is among the types of income subject to taxation under Subpart F. Any income taxable under Subpart F is taxable in the U.S. at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 21%. Subpart F income also includes certain income from intra-Group transactions between Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs and Changyous non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs or Sogous non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs, or where Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries or VIEs make an investment in U.S. property, such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. Under a provision of the U.S. tax code commonly referred to as the CFC look-through rule, Sohu.com Inc. has not had to treat dividends received by its CFC subsidiaries as Subpart F income includible in Sohu.com Inc.s taxable income in the U.S. The CFC look-through rule, which is currently scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019, has been extended several times by the U.S. Congress. Unless further extended, the CFC look-through rule will be available for Sohu.com Inc.s CFC subsidiaries and their VIEs only through their taxable years ending November 30, 2020. To the extent that portions of Sohu.com Inc.s U.S. taxable income, such as Subpart F income or GILTI, are determined to be from sources outside of the U.S., subject to certain limitations, Sohu.com Inc. may be able to claim foreign tax credits to offset its U.S. income tax liabilities. If dividends that Sohu.com Inc. receives from its subsidiaries are determined to be from sources outside of the U.S., subject to certain limitations, Sohu.com Inc. will generally not be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on those dividends. Any liabilities for U.S. corporate income tax will be accrued in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and estimated tax payments will be made when required by U.S. law. One-Time Transition Tax Related to U.S. Tax Reform In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Group recognized a one-time transition tax of $218.5 million that represented managements estimate of the amount of U.S. corporate income tax based on the deemed repatriation to the United States of Sohus share of previously deferred earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries of Sohu mandated by the U.S. Tax Reform, offset by a reduction of $3.7 million in liability for deferred U.S. income tax as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform. Sohu.com Inc. may make an election to pay the one-time transition tax over eight years commencing in April 2019, or pay in a single lump sum. The actual impact of the U.S. Tax Reform on Sohu.com Inc. may differ from managements estimates, and management may update its judgments based on future regulations or guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. There is no development for the impact from U.S. Tax Reform on Sohu.com Inc. during the first quarter of 2018, so the balance of one-time transition tax remains unchanged as of March 31, 2018. Uncertain Tax Positions We are subject to various taxes in different jurisdictions, primarily the U.S. and the PRC. Management reviews regularly the adequacy of the provisions for taxes as they relate to our income and transactions. In order to assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. For the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Net Income /(Loss) per Share Basic net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and, if dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares comprise shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards using the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with performance requirements is not considered before the performance targets are actually met. The computation of diluted net income /(loss) per share does not assume conversion, exercise, or contingent issuance of securities that would have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e. an increase in earnings per share amounts or a decrease in loss per share amounts) on net income /(loss) per share. -65- Table of Contents Additionally, for purposes of calculating the numerator of diluted net income /(loss) per share, the net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is calculated as follows: Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. Before Sogous IPO Before Sogous IPO, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. was determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represented of the weighted average number of the Sogou Pre-IPO Preferred Shares and Pre-IPO Ordinary Shares, shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred shares under the if-converted method, and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and was not determined by allocating Sogous net income /(loss) to Sohu.com Inc. using the methodology for the calculation of net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders. After Sogous IPO After Sogous IPO, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Sogou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Sogou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, the percentage of Sohu.com Inc.s shareholding in Sogou was calculated by treating convertible preferred shares issued by Sogou as having been converted at the beginning of the period and unvested Sogou share options with the performance targets achieved as well as vested but unexercised Sogou share options as having been exercised during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with a performance requirement was not considered before the performance targets were actually met. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Sogou shares and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted income /(loss) per share. As a result, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Changyou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Changyou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Changyou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, all of Changyous existing unvested restricted share units and share options, and vested restricted share units and share options that have not yet been settled, are treated as vested and settled by Changyou under the treasury stock method, causing the percentage of the weighted average number of shares held by Sohu.com Inc. in Changyou to decrease. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis decreased accordingly. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Changyou restricted share units and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Fair Value of Financial Instruments U.S. GAAP establishes a three-tier hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring the fair value of financial instruments. This hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The three-tier fair value hierarchy is: Level 1 - observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - include other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the market place. Level 3 - unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. -66- Table of Contents Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, long-term investments, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, receipts in advance and deferred revenue, short-term bank loans, other short-term liabilities, long-term bank loans and long-term accounts payable. Cash Equivalents Our cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. Short-term Investments For investments in financial instruments with a variable interest rate indexed to the performance of underlying assets, we elected the fair value method at the date of initial recognition and carried these investments subsequently at fair value. Changes in fair values are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Accounts Receivable, Net The carrying value of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. We make estimations of the collectability of accounts receivable. Many factors are considered in estimating the general allowance, including reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, performing an aging analysis and a customer credit analysis, and analyzing historical bad debt records and current economic trends. Foreign exchange forward contracts Foreign exchange forward contracts are initially recognized on the date a foreign exchange forward contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at fair value. Changyou entered into such foreign exchange forward contracts in compliance with its risk management policy for the purpose of eliminating the negative impact on earnings and equity resulting from fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB. The instruments are marked-to-market at each period-end with the associated changes in fair value recognized in the line item Other income /(loss), net in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Other short-term liabilities or Prepaid and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The net cash inflow and outflow related to the settlement of the forward contracts are recorded in the line item Other investing activities under Cash flows from investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Equity Investments Investments in entities are recorded as equity investments under long-term investments. For entities over which we can exercise significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or control, the equity method is applied, and we adjust the carrying amount of an investment and recognize investment income or loss for our share of the earnings or loss of the investee after the date of investment. For those equity investments accounted for other than under the equity method or those that result in consolidation, the fair value method is applied. However, for equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values, we choose to account for them at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar investment of the same issuer. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include fixed assets and intangible assets. -67- Table of Contents Fixed Assets Fixed assets mainly comprise office buildings, leasehold improvements, building improvements, vehicles, office furniture and computer equipment and hardware. Fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation with no residual value. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Fixed Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Office buildings 36-47 Leasehold improvements Lesser of term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets Vehicles 4-10 Office furniture 5 Computer equipment and hardware 2-5 Expenditure for maintenance and repairs is expensed as incurred. The gain or loss on the disposal of fixed assets is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell the relevant assets and is recognized in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Intangible Assets Intangible assets mainly comprise domain names and trademarks, developed technologies, computer software, purchased video content, cinema advertising slot rights and operating rights for licensed games. Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization with no residual value. Amortization of intangible assets other than purchased video content is computed using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of our intangible assets are listed below: Intangible Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Domain names and trademarks 4-30 Developed technologies 3-10 Computer software 1-5 Video content 6 months to 2 years, or over the applicable licensing period Cinema advertising slot rights over the contract terms Operating rights for licensed games over the contract terms Impairment of Long-lived Assets In accordance with ASC 360-10-35, we review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long-lived assets using the projected discounted cash flow method at the asset group level. The estimation of future cash flows requires significant management judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and is subject to many factors. The discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in our business model is determined by our management. An impairment loss would be recorded if we determined that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Video Content Video content consists primarily of purchased video content and self-developed video content. Purchased video content is recognized as intangible assets. Amortization of purchased video content is computed based on the trend in viewership accumulation. For self-developed video content, production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted for are expensed as incurred, instead of being recorded as intangible assets. -68- Table of Contents Sohu Video enters into nonmonetary transactions to exchange online broadcasting rights for purchased video content with other online video broadcasting companies. Under ASC 845, the cost of a nonmonetary asset acquired in exchange for another nonmonetary asset is the fair value of the asset surrendered to obtain the acquired nonmonetary asset, and a gain or loss should be recognized on the exchange. The fair value of the asset received should be used to measure the cost if the fair value of the asset received is more reliable than the fair value of the asset surrendered. We record these nonmonetary exchanges at the fair values of the online broadcasting rights for purchased video content and recognize any net gain or loss from such exchange transactions. Impairment of Video Content Purchased video content is stated at the lower of cost less accumulated amortization, or net realizable value (NRV). In accordance with ASC 920-350-35, if managements expectations of the programming usefulness of a program, series, package, or program segment are revised downward, it may be necessary to write down unamortized cost to estimated NRV. A write-down from unamortized cost to a lower estimated NRV establishes a new cost basis. Accordingly, we measure the video contents impairment loss by comparing the contents carrying value to its NRV. An impairment loss will be recorded if the carrying value of video content is higher than its NRV. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of video content exceeds its NRV. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in our subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we report in our financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. If a measurement period adjustment is identified, we recognize the adjustment as part of the acquisition accounting. We increase or decrease the provisional amounts of identifiable assets or liabilities by means of increases or decreases in goodwill for measurement period adjustments. In accordance with ASC 350, we do not amortize goodwill, but test it for impairment. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of October 1, and between annual tests when an event occurs or circumstances change that could indicate that the asset might be impaired. Under ASC 350-20-35, we have the option to choose whether we will apply a qualitative assessment first and then a quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply a quantitative assessment directly. For reporting units applying a qualitative assessment first, we start the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is mandatory. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying the quantitative assessment, we perform the goodwill impairment test by quantitatively comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. After performing the assessment, if the carrying amounts of the reporting units are higher than their fair value, we perform the second step of the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate fair value using the income approach or the market approach. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, control premium, comparable companies multipliers, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a company during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances excluding transactions resulting from investments from owners and distributions to owners. Accumulated other comprehensive income, as presented on our consolidated balance sheets, includes a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment. Functional Currency and Foreign Currency Translation An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates, normally that is the currency of the environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. Managements judgment is essential to -69- Table of Contents determine the functional currency by assessing various indicators, such as cash flows, sales price and market, expenses, financing and intra-Group transactions and arrangements. The functional currency of Sohu.com Inc. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in the U.S., the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our subsidiaries and VIEs in other countries are the national currencies of those counties, rather than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are re-measured at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at that date. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Financial statements of entities with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars, which is the reporting currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average of the exchange rates in effect during the reporting period. Shareholders equity accounts are translated using the historical exchange rates at the date the entry to shareholders equity was recorded, except for the change in retained earnings during the year, which is translated using the historical exchange rates used to translate each periods income statement. Differences resulting from translating a foreign currency to the reporting currency are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table presents our revenues by revenue source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 2018 vs 2017 Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Revenues Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 81,412 22 % 56,254 12 % (25,158 ) (31 )% Search and search-related advertising 142,035 38 % 220,301 48 % 78,266 55 % Subtotal of online advertising revenues 223,447 60 % 276,555 60 % 53,108 24 % Online game 85,325 23 % 105,461 23 % 20,136 24 % Others 65,331 17 % 72,979 17 % 7,648 12 % Total revenues $ 374,103 100 % 454,995 100 % 80,892 22 % Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues were $276.6 million and $223.4 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year increase of 24%. Brand Advertising Revenues Generated by Sohu and Changyou Brand advertising revenues were $56.3 million and $81.4 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 31%. The year-on-year reduction in brand advertising revenues was mainly from reductions in the revenues of Sohu Video and Focus. Sohu Sohu Media Portal Revenues from Sohu Media Portal were $30.7 million and $36.8 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 17%. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $20,000 and $22,000, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The number of advertisers for Sohu Media Portal was 1,511 and 1,694, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. -70- Table of Contents Sohu Video Revenues from Sohu Video were $12.6 million and $21.7 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 42%. The changes were mainly attributable to reductions in the number of advertisers. The number of advertisers on Sohu Video sites was 103 and 171 respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 40%. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $122,000 and $127,000, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Focus Revenues from Focus were $7.9 million and $17.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 54%. Revenues from Focus were primarily generated through the Fixed Price model. For the Fixed Price model, revenues were $6.7 million and $11.2 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a decrease of 40%. Changyou 17173.com Website Revenues from the 17173.com Website were $5.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 14%. The decrease was primarily a result of fewer Web games being marketed on the 17173 Website. The number of advertisers for the 17173.com Website was 68 and 84, respectively, and the average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $75,000 and $70,000, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues, Generated by Sogou Revenues from search and search-related services were $220.3 million and $142.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 55%. The increase was mainly due to continued traffic growth and improved monetization in mobile search. The increase in revenues from search and search-related services was mainly attributable to an increase in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services. Revenues from pay-for-click services accounted for approximately 83% and 81%, respectively, of the total search and search-related advertising revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The growth in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services resulted from increases both in average revenue per advertiser (or ARPA) and in the number of advertisers. The ARPA for auction-based pay-for-click services was $2,427 and $1,707, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The number of auction-based pay-for-click advertisers was approximately 75,000 and 67,000, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The increase in ARPA was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of paid clicks primarily driven by strong growth in mobile paid clicks as a result of rapidly-growing mobile search traffic, and a higher average cost-per-click. Online Game Revenues Generated by Changyou Revenues from the online game business were $105.5 million and $85.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year increase of 24%. The increase was mainly due to the revenue contribution of the mobile game Legacy TLBB, which was launched in the second quarter of 2017. PC Games and Mobile Games Revenues from PC games were $59.5 million and $64.9 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 8%. Revenues from PC games accounted for 56% and 76%, respectively, of Changyou online game revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from PC games was mainly due to the natural decline in revenues of TLBB, which is an older PC game. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the PC game TLBB generated $50.8 million in revenues, accounting for approximately 48% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 37% of Changyous total revenues and approximately 11% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Revenues from mobile games were $45.7 million and $19.8 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The dominant mobile game operated by Changyou was Legacy TLBB. The year-on-year increase was mainly due to the -71- Table of Contents revenue contribution of Legacy TLBB. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the mobile game Legacy TLBB generated $28.2 in revenues, accounting for approximately 27% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 21% of Changyous total revenues, and approximately 6% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. The following table sets forth certain operating data for Changyous PC games and mobile games for the periods indicated: Average Monthly Active Accounts (1) For the Three Months Ended (in millions) PC games Mobile games 2017 2.4 1.1 2018 2.5 2.6 Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts (2) For the Three Months Ended (in millions) PC games Mobile games 2017 0.9 0.3 2018 0.8 0.8 (1) Average Monthly Active Accounts for a given period refers to the number of registered accounts that were logged in to these games at least once during the period. (2) Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts for a given quarter refers to the number of accounts from which game points were used at least once during the quarter. Web Games Revenues from Web games were $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Other Revenues Revenues from other services were $72.9 million and $65.4 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing year-on-year growth of 12%. The increase from the three months ended March 31, 2017 to the corresponding period of 2018 was $7.5 million, consisting of a $2.9 million increase in revenues from paid subscription services, a $2.7 million increase in revenues from smart hardware products, a $2.4 million increase in revenues from IVAS, and a $1.1 million increase in revenues from content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China, offset by a $2.5 million decrease in revenues from sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues by source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 2018 vs 2017 Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 80,197 36 % 50,611 19 % (29,586 ) (37 )% Search and search-related advertising 82,107 38 % 144,696 55 % 62,589 76 % Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 162,304 74 % 195,307 74 % 33,003 20 % Online game 16,505 8 % 17,119 7 % 614 4 % Others 40,070 18 % 48,407 19 % 8,337 21 % Total cost of revenues $ 218,879 100 % 260,833 100 % 41,954 19 % -72- Table of Contents Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues was $195.3 million and $162.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year increase of 20%. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, and salary and benefits expenses. Cost of brand advertising revenues was $50.6 million and $80.2 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year decrease of 37%. The $29.6 million decrease mainly consisted of a $24.8 million decrease in content and license costs, a $1.5 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $1.0 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, and a $0.8 million decrease in share-based compensation expense. Our brand advertising gross margin was 10% and 1%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The decrease in our brand advertising gross margin was mainly due to decreased video content cost. Cost of Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, depreciation expenses, as well as salary and benefits expenses. Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues was $144.7 million and $82.1 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing a year-on-year increase of 76%. The $62.6 million increase mainly consisted of a $54.1 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $4.0 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses, and a $3.4 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. Our search and search-related advertising gross margin was 34% and 42%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The decrease in our search and search-related advertising gross margin was mainly due to traffic acquisition costs increasing at a faster rate than revenues. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments, salary and benefits expense, and bandwidth and communication costs. Cost of online game revenues was $17.1 million and $16.5 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, which was stable. Our online game gross margin was 84% and 81%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the three months ended March 31, 2017. Cost of Other Revenues Cost of other revenues mainly consists of payments to theaters for pre-film screening advertising slots, content and license costs related to paid subscription services, revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business, cost of smart hardware products, and revenue-sharing payments related to interactive broadcasting services. Cost of revenues for other services was $48.4 million and $40.1 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, representing year-on-year growth of 21%. The $8.3 million year-on-year increase mainly consisted of a $4.5 million increase in payments to theaters for pre-film screening advertising slots, a $2.0 million increase in Sogous smart hardware products cost, a $1.5 million increase in revenue-sharing payments related to China mobile network operators, and a $1.1 million increase in revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business. -73- Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses by nature and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2018 2018 vs 2017 Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Incremental ratio Operating expenses: Product development $ 84,098 42 % 111,543 49 % 27,445 33 % Sales and marketing 90,086 44 % 90,273 40 % 187 0 % General and administrative 28,350 14 % 23,836 11 % (4,514 ) (16 )% Total operating expenses $ 202,534 100 % 225,652 100 % 23,118 11 % Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, technical service fees, content and license expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, facilities expenses, and travelling and entertainment expenses. Product development expense was $111.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $84.1 million for the corresponding period of 2017. The increase in product development expenses from the three months ended March 31, 2017 to the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $27.4 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $22.0 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, and a $2.9 million increase in technical service fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenditures, salary and benefits expenses, travelling and entertainment expenses, and facility expenses. Sales and marketing expenses were $90.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, which was generally stable compared to $90.1 million for the corresponding period of 2017. The increase in sales and marketing expenses from the three months ended March 31, 2017 to the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $0.2 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $2.4 million increase in salary and benefits expenses and a $2.1 million increase in travelling and entertainment expenses, offset by a $4.3 million decrease in advertising and promotional expenditures. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, professional fees, travelling and entertainment expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and facility expenses. General and administrative expenses were $23.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $28.4 million for the corresponding period of 2017. The decrease in general and administrative expenses from the three months ended March 31, 2017 to the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $4.5 million. The decrease mainly consisted of a $6.6 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, a $2.0 million decrease in bad debts, a $1.6 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, offset by a $5.8 million increase in professional fees. -74- Table of Contents Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense was recognized in costs and expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Share-based compensation expense 2017 2018 Cost of revenues $ 186 $ (450 ) Product development expenses 2,327 715 Sales and marketing expenses 665 (89 ) General and administrative expenses 4,051 (2,520 ) $ 7,229 $ (2,344 ) Share-based compensation expense recognized for share awards of Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, Changyou and Sohu Video was as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, Share-based compensation expense 2017 2018 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ (2,443 ) $ (4,049 ) For Sogou share-based awards (2) 4,337 4,279 For Changyou share-based awards 5,533 (2,425 ) For Sohu Video share-based awards (198 ) (149 ) $ 7,229 $ (2,344 ) Note (1): The negative amount resulted from re-measured compensation expense based on the then-current fair value of the awards on the reporting date. Note (2): Compensation expense for Sogou share-based awards also includes compensation expense for Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses and compensation expense of $4.0 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 in connection with Sogous repurchase of Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares from the former President and Chief Financial Officer of the Sohu Group, which is equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares as of the repurchase date. As of March 31, 2018, unrecognized share-based compensation expense for Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou and Changyou share-based awards was as follows (in thousands): Unrecognized share-based compensation expense As of March 31, 2018 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 0 For Sogou share-based awards (3) 19,614 For Changyou share-based awards 2,674 $ 22,288 Note (3): Includes the unrecognized compensation expense for employees who transferred from Tencent with Soso search and search-related businesses. Operating Loss We had an operating loss of $31.5 million and an operating loss of $47.3 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Other Income Other income was $12.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. -75- Table of Contents Interest Income Interest income was $7.8 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Interest Expense Interest expense was $3.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $63.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $10.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in income tax expense was mainly due to Changyous accrual of additional withholding income taxes of approximately $47 million for the period before December 31, 2017 recognized in relation to a change in policy for Changyous PRC subsidiaries with respect to their distribution of cash dividends. Net Loss We had a net loss of $87.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to a net loss of $50.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest We had net income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $5.6 million and $17.9 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the three months ended March 31, 2017. Net Loss Attributable to Sohu.com Inc. As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $92.8 million and $68.2 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and the three months ended March 31, 2017. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Resources Analysis Liquidity Sources and Balances Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows generated from our operations. Cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. Short-term investments comprise investment instruments issued by commercial banks in China, with a variable interest rate indexed to performance of underlying assets and maturity dates within one year. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.16 billion, restricted cash of $2.1 million, and short-term investments of $1.07 billion. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $458.3 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $698.1 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Of the cash and cash equivalents held in financial institutions inside Mainland China, $17.3 million was held by our VIEs and $441.0 million was held by our PRC-based subsidiaries. We believe our current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs (net cash used in operating activities), commitments, capital expenditures, and investment activities over the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions and other future developments, or changes in general economic conditions. See Restrictions and Limitations on Cash Available to Sohu.com Inc. below and