ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As used in this report, references to us, we, our, our company, our Group, the Sohu Group, the Group, and Sohu.com are to Sohu.com Inc. and, except where the context requires otherwise, our subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) Sohu.com Limited, Sohu.com (Hong Kong) Limited (Sohu Hong Kong), All Honest International Limited (All Honest), Sohu.com (Game) Limited (Sohu Game), Go2Map Inc., Sohu.com (Search) Limited (Sohu Search), Sogou Inc. (Sogou), Sogou (BVI) Limited (Sogou BVI), Sogou Hong Kong Limited (Sogou HK), Vast Creation Advertising Media Services Limited (Vast Creation), Sogou Technology Hong Kong Limited, Fox Video Investment Holding Limited (Video Investment), Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video), Fox Video (HK) Limited (Video HK), Focus Investment Holding Limited, Sohu Focus Limited, Sohu Focus (HK) Limited, Beijing Sohu New Era Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Era), Beijing Sohu Software Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sogou Technology Development Co., Ltd. (Sogou Technology), Beijing Sogou Network Technology Co., Ltd (Sogou Network), Fox Information Technology (Tianjin) Limited (Video Tianjin), Beijing Sohu New Media Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Media), Beijing Sohu New Momentum Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu New Momentum), Beijing Century High Tech Investment Co., Ltd. (High Century), Beijing Heng Da Yi Tong Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Heng Da Yi Tong, formerly known as Beijing Sohu Entertainment Culture Media Co., Ltd.), Beijing Sohu Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sohu Internet), Beijing GoodFeel Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sogou Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sogou Information), Beijing 21 East Culture Development Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu Donglin Advertising Co., Ltd.(Donglin), Beijing Pilot New Era Advertising Co., Ltd. (Pilot New Era), Beijing Focus Yiju Network Information Technology Co., Ltd., SohuPay Science and Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Yi He Jia Xun Information Technology Co., Ltd., Tianjin Jinhu Culture Development Co., Ltd. (Tianjin Jinhu), Guangzhou Qianjun Network Technology Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou Qianjun), Beijing Modu Legendary Culture Media Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Shi Ji Guang Su Information Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Easypay Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Shi Ji Si Su Technology Co., Ltd., Tianjin Sogou Network Technology Co., Ltd, Chongqing Qogir Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Interactive Information Service Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Xin Gan Xian Information Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Real Estate Agency Co., Ltd. and our independently-listed majority-owned subsidiary Changyou.com Limited (Changyou) as well as the following direct and indirect subsidiaries and VIEs of Changyou: Changyou.com HK Limited (Changyou HK) formerly known as TL Age Hong Kong Limited), Changyou.com Webgames (HK) Limited (Changyou HK Webgames), Changyou.com Gamepower (HK) Limited, ICE Entertainment (HK) Limited (ICE HK), Changyou.com Gamestar (HK) Limited, Changyou.com Korea Limited, Changyou.com India Private Limited, Changyou BILISIM HIZMETLERI TICARET LIMITED SIRKETI, Kylie Enterprises Limited, Mobogarden Enterprises Limited, Heroic Vision Holdings Limited, TalkTalk Limited, RaidCall (HK) Limited, 7Road.com Limited (7Road), 7Road.com HK Limited (7Road HK), Changyou.com (TH) Limited, PT. CHANGYOU TECHNOLOGY INDONESIA, Changyou Middle East FZ-LLC, Changyou.com Technology Brazil Desenvolvimento De Programas LTDA, Greative Entertainment Limited (formerly known as Greative Digital Limited), Glory Loop Limited (Glory Loop), MoboTap Inc. (MoboTap, a Cayman Islands company), MoboTap Inc. Limited (MoboTap HK), MoboTap Inc. (a Delaware corporation), TMobi Limited (formerly known as Muse Entertainment Limited), Mobo Information Technology Pte. Ltd., Changyou Mobo Glint Limited, Beijing AmazGame Age Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (AmazGame), Beijing Changyou Skyline Property Management Co. Ltd, Beijing Changyou Chuangxiang Software Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Gamespace Software Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamespace), ICE Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (ICE Information), Beijing Changyou RaidCall Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (RaidCall), Beijing Yang Fan Jing He Information Consulting Co., Ltd. (Yang Fan Jing He), Shanghai Jingmao Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Shanghai Jingmao), Shanghai Hejin Data Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Jingmao Film & Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Beijing Jingmao), Beijing Gamease Age Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamease), Beijing Guanyou Gamespace Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Guanyou Gamespace), Beijing Zhi Hui You Information Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai ICE Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai ICE), Shenzhen 7Road Network Technologies Co., Ltd. (7Road Technology), Beijing Changyou Star Digital Technology Co., Ltd (Changyou Star), Beijing Changyou Creation Information Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Beijing Changyou e-pay Co. Ltd.), Shenzhen Brilliant Imagination Technologies Co., Ltd. (Brilliant Imagination), Beijing Baina Information Technology Co., Ltd., Baina Zhiyuan (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd. (Beijing Baina Technology), Baina Zhiyuan (Chengdu) Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Xingyu Technology Co., Ltd., Baina (Wuhan) Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Wuhan Baina Information), Wuhan Xingyu Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Creative Technology Co., Ltd., BeiJing Changmica Culture Co., Ltd., and HongKong New Xinlang Electron Group Limited, and these references should be interpreted accordingly. Unless otherwise specified, references to China or PRC refer to the Peoples Republic of China and do not include the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Macau Special Administrative Region or Taiwan. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words expect, anticipate, intend, believe, or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 27, 2017, as updated by Part II Item 1A of our quarterly report on Form 10 Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 and by Part II Item 1A of this report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. -48- Table of Contents OVERVIEW Sohu.com Inc. (NASDAQ: SOHU), a Delaware corporation organized in 1996, is a leading Chinese online media, search and game service group providing comprehensive online products and services on PCs and mobile devices in the Peoples Republic of China (the PRC or China). Our businesses are conducted by Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and VIEs (collectively referred to as the Sohu Group or the Group). The Sohu Group consists of Sohu, which when referred to in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, excludes the businesses and the corresponding subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou Inc. (Sogou) and Changyou.com Limited (Changyou), Sogou and Changyou. Sogou and Changyou are indirect controlled subsidiaries of Sohu.com Inc. Sohu is a leading Chinese language online media content and services provider. Sogou is a leading online search and search-related services and mobile Internet products provider in China. Changyou is a leading online game developer and operator in China as measured by the popularity of its PC game Tian Long Ba Bu (TLBB) as well as its mobile game Legacy TLBB, and engages primarily in the development, operation and licensing of online games for PCs and mobile devices. Most of our operations are conducted through our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs. Factors and Trends Affecting our Business With the accelerated shift in user activities from PCs to mobile devices and an increase in the number of Internet users, the use of various kinds of mobile Internet services continued to increase. At Sohu, we focused our efforts on developing a portfolio of leading mobile products across our business lines that we believed our users would like. Smartphones have completely reshaped the online media business in China, as in-stream feeds have become a mainstream format through which users have become accustomed to receiving personalized information. During the first three quarters of 2017, the market for delivering services to smartphones has developed quickly, and competition has increased. We invested extensivily in content and technology for Sohu Media Portal to continue to build it as a competitive online media platform. We continuously refined the design of our key product Sohu News APP, and introduced innovative features to meet users appetites. In the third quarter of 2017, we improved the algorithm used by the recommendation engine of Sohu News APP to enhance its user experience. On the sales front, in the third quarter of 2017, large brand advertisers performance remained soft, while the demand from small and medium enterprise (SME) customers was resilient. Online video services remained one of the most popular Internet applications, and continued to gain viewers from television stations. The video industry continued to be deeply competitive as major online platforms aggressively competed for popular content. The competition led to an escalation in the price of content, especially the prices of premium TV dramas. Since 2016, Sohu Video has been shifting our focus to the self-developed content category, which, in our view, will create long-lasting value to our platform. Leveraging our exclusive original content, we also actively explored opportunities with subscription services that we believe will become an important revenue source in addition to traditional advertising revenues. From the second quarter of 2017, Sohu Video has stopped chasing the costly domestic TV dramas that are scheduled to be released in 2018. We expect this decision will generate substantial cost savings and help improve the bottom-line results for Sohu Video in 2018. For our search and search-related business, Sogou is one of the top players in the online search sector in China. In the third quarter of 2017, we continued to strengthen our competitive advantages in search from channel to content, leveraging the robust ecosystem we have built and shared with Tencent. Specially, Tencent began testing, on a trial basis and for purposes of assessment, the integration of Sogou Search into Weixin/WeChat, whereby its users can use Sogou Search as a general search function from within Weixin/WeChat to access information outside Weixin/WeChat. By the end of September 2017, Sogous mobile search traffic had grown 38% from the end of September 2016. The revenues generated from our mobile auction-based pay-for-click services accounted for 83% of our total auction-based pay-for-click revenues. We also made solid progress in artificial intelligence, in particular with voice technology. As of September 30, 2017, daily use of voice input through Sogou Mobile Keyboard had increased by approximately 75% from a year ago. For our online game business, PC games revenue remained stable in the quarter and mobile games revenue continued to grow, driven by the launch of Legacy TLBB. Managements top priority is to address the needs of core users and keep users entertained with continuual upgrades of content and social functions. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, Changyous PC games and mobile games had approximately 7.5 million Average Monthly Active Accounts and approximately 2.2 million Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts. -49- Table of Contents Our Business Through the operation of Sohu, Sogou and Changyou, we generate online advertising revenues (including brand advertising revenues and search and search-related advertising revenues), online games revenues and other revenues. Online advertising and online games are our core businesses. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, total revenues generated by Sohu, Sogou and Changyou were approximately $516.1 million, including: Sohu: $68.8 million in brand advertising revenues, of which $37.9 million was from Sohu Media Portal, $18.9 million was from Sohu Video, and $12.0 million was from Focus; and $24.6 million in other revenues, mainly attributable to revenues from paid subscription services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, interactive broadcasting services, and content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China. Total revenues generated by Sohu were $93.4 million. Sogou: $225.4 million in search and search-related advertising revenues; and $31.8 million in other revenues, attributable to Sogous offering of Internet value-added services (or IVAS), primarily with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties, and of other products and services, including smart hardware products. Total revenues generated by Sogou were $257.2 million. Changyou: $132.4 million in online game revenues; $6.0 million in brand advertising revenues, mainly attributable to Changyous 17173.com Website; and $27.1 million in other revenues attributable to Changyous cinema advertising business and IVAS business. Total revenues generated by Changyou were $165.5 million. For the three months ended September 30, 2017, our total brand advertising revenues were $74.8 million, total search and search-related advertising revenues were $225.4 million, total online game revenues were $132.4 million, and total other revenues were $83.5 million. Sohus Business Brand Advertising Business Sohus main business is the brand advertising business, which offers to users, over our matrices of Chinese language online media, various content, products and services across multiple Internet-enabled devices, such as PCs, mobile phones and tablets. The majority of our products and services are provided through Sohu Media Portal, Sohu Video and Focus. Sohu Media Portal . Sohu Media Portal is a leading online news and information provider in China. Sohu Media Portal provides users comprehensive content through www.sohu.com for PCs, the mobile phone application Sohu News APP and the mobile portal m.sohu.com; Sohu Video. Sohu Video is a leading online video content and service provider in China through tv.sohu.com for PCs and the mobile phone application Sohu Video APP; and Focus. Focus (www.focus.cn) is a leading online real estate information and services provider in China. Revenues generated by the brand advertising business are classified as brand advertising revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. -50- Table of Contents Other Sohu Business Sohu also engages in the other business, which consists primarily of paid subscription services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, interactive broadcasting services, and content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China. Revenues generated by Sohu from the other business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous Business Search and Search-related Business The search and search-related business consists primarily of search and search-related advertising services offered by Sogou. Search and search-related advertising services enable advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogous search results pages and other Internet properties and third parties Internet properties where the links are relevant to the subject and content of searches and such properties. Sogous advertising services expand distribution of advertisers promotional links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on third parties Internet properties, including Web content, software, and mobile applications. Our search and search-related business benefits from our collaboration with Tencent Holdings Limited (Tencent), which provides us access to traffic and content generated from the products and services provided by Tencent. Revenues generated by the search and search-related business are classified as search and search-related advertising revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Other Sogou Business Sogou also offers IVAS, primarily with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties, and offers other products and services, including smart hardware products. Revenues generated by Sogou from the other business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Changyous Business Changyous business lines consist of the online game business; the platform channel business, which consists primarily of online advertising and also includes IVAS; and the cinema advertising business. Online Game Business Changyous online game business offers to game players (a) PC games, which are interactive online games that are accessed and played simultaneously by hundreds of thousands of game players through personal computers and require that local client-end game access software be installed on the computers used; (b) mobile games, which are played on mobile devices and require an Internet connection. Prior to the sale of Shenzhen 7Road in August 2015, Changyous online games also included Web games, which are online games that are played through a Web browser with no local game software installation requirements. Following the sale of Shenzhen 7Road, Web games became an insignificant part of Changyous online game business. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, meaning that game players can play the games for free, but can choose to pay for virtual items, which are non-physical items that game players can purchase and use within a game, such as gems, pets, fashion items, magic medicine, riding animals, hierograms, skill books and fireworks. Revenues derived from the operation of online games are classified as online game revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Platform Channel Business Changyous platform channel business consists primarily of the operation of the 17173.com Website, one of the leading information portals in China, which provides news, electronic forums, online videos and other information services regarding online games to game players. Changyous platform channel business also offers a number of software applications for PCs and mobile devices through two platforms, RaidCall and MoboTap. RaidCall provides online music and entertainment services, primarily in Taiwan. MoboTap provides (a) software applications for PCs and mobile devices through Dolphin Browser, which is a gateway to a host of user activities on mobile devices with the majority of its users based in overseas markets, and (b) domestic online card and board games. In 2014, Changyou purchased 51% of the equity interests in MoboTap on a fully-diluted basis for approximately $91 million in cash. Changyous intention in making the acquisition was to generate benefits from expected synergies of the Dolphin Browser with Changyous platform channel business. -51- Table of Contents In 2015, the financial performance of the Dolphin Browser was below original expectations, and Changyous management concluded that the Dolphin Browser was unable to provide the expected synergies with Changyous platform channel business. Accordingly mangagment performed a goodwill impairment test using the discounted cash flow method for the goodwill generated in the acquisition of MoboTap. As a result, Changyou recorded $29.6 million and $8.9 million, respectively, in goodwill and intangible assets impairment losses. MoboTap then switched its focus to the development and operation of card and board games in China, which have been MoboTaps main source of revenue since 2015. In 2016, Changyous Board of Directors approved the disposal of Changyous 51% equity interest in MoboTap. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities attributable to MoboTap were classified as assets and liabilities held for sale and measured at the lower of their carrying amounts or their fair value, less cost to sell, in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016. In the first quarter of 2017, Changyous management determined that the disposal was unlikely to be completed within one year, due to the suspension of negotiations with a potential buyer of MoboTap. As a result, the assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale related to MoboTap were reclassified and have been recorded as assets and liabilities held for use and measured at the lower of the carrying value before MoboTap was classified as held for sale, adjusted for any depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the assets and liabilities been continuously classified as held for use, or the fair value as of the reclassification date in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets commencing on the reclassification date. In the first quarter of 2017, Changyou recorded a $1.4 million expense in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income for catch-up of depreciation and amortization expense of the assets held for sale before the reclassification. In the third quarter of 2017, due to reinforced restrictions the Chinese regulatory authorities imposed on card and board games, some of Changyous key distribution partners informed Changyou that they had decided to stop the distribution and promotion of card and board games, which had an adverse impact on MoboTaps current performance, and also increased the uncertainty for its future operations and cash flow. As a result, Changyou determined that it is unlikely for MoboTap to gain users and grow its online card and board games revenues in China. Management performed an impairment test in the third quarter of 2017 using the discounted cash flow method and impairment charges of $86.9 million were recognized to reflect the fair value of the MoboTap business, of which an $83.5 million impairment loss was recognized for goodwill and a $3.4 million impairment loss was recognized for intangible assets. All revenues generated by the 17173.com Website are classified as brand advertising revenues, online card and board games revenues generated by MoboTap are classified as online game revenues, and IVAS revenues generated by MoboTap through the Dolphin Browser and generated by RaidCall are classified as other revenues in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Cinema Advertising Business Changyou also operates a cinema advertising business, which consists primarily of the acquisition, from operators of movie theaters, and the sale, to advertisers, of pre-film advertising slots, which are advertisements shown before the screening of a movie in a cinema theatre. Revenues generated by Changyous cinema advertising business are classified as other revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations relates to our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Identified below are the accounting policies that reflect our most significant estimates and judgments, and those that we believe are the most critical to fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements. Basis of Consolidation and Recognition of Noncontrolling Interest Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. All intra-Group transactions are eliminated. -52- Table of Contents VIE Consolidation Our VIEs are wholly or partially owned by certain of our employees as nominee shareholders. For our consolidated VIEs, management made evaluations of the relationships between us and our VIEs and the economic benefit flow of contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In connection with such evaluation, management also took into account the fact that, as a result of such contractual arrangements, we control the shareholders voting interests in these VIEs. As a result of such evaluation, management concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of our consolidated VIEs. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition Noncontrolling interests are recognized to reflect the portion of the equity of subsidiaries and VIEs which is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the controlling shareholder. The noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements primarily consist of noncontrolling interests for Sogou and Changyou. Noncontrolling Interest for Sogou Sogous Share Structure As of September 30, 2017, Sogou had outstanding a combined total of 336,194,956 ordinary shares and preferred shares held as follows: (i) Sohu.com Inc.: 130,920,250 Class A Ordinary Shares, of which 3,707,000 shares may be purchased by Sohu management and key employees under an option arrangement; (ii) Photon Group Limited, an investment vehicle of the Sohu Groups Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhang (Photon): 32,000,000 Series A Preferred Shares; (iii) Tencent: 6,757,875 Class A Ordinary Shares, 65,431,579 Series B Preferred Shares and 79,368,421 non-voting Class B Ordinary Shares; and (iv) Various employees of Sogou and Sohu: 21,716,831 Class A Ordinary Shares. Sohus Shareholding in and Control of Sogou As of September 30, 2017, we held approximately 36% of the outstanding equity capital of Sogou on a fully-diluted basis, assuming for such purpose that all share options under the Sogou 2010 Share Incentive Plan and all share options under the Sohu Management Sogou Share Option Arrangement are granted and exercised, and that all of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares that Sogou has repurchased are re-issued to shareholders other than us. Also as of September 30, 2017, we held over 50% of the total voting power of Sogou on a fully-diluted basis and controlled the election of a majority of the Board of Directors of Sogou, assuming that Tencents non-voting Class B Ordinary Shares are converted to voting shares, that all of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares that Sogou has repurchased are re-issued to shareholders other than us, and that all Sogou share options under the Sogou 2010 Share Incentive Plan and all Sogou share options under the Sohu Management Sogou Share Option Arrangement are granted and exercised. As Sogous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Sogou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting economic interests in Sogou held by shareholders other than us (the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders). Sogous net income/(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity/(deficit) and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders investments in Sogous Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares (collectively, the Sogou Preferred Shares) and Ordinary Shares are accounted for as a noncontrolling interest classified as permanent equity in our consolidated balance sheets, as we have the right to reject a redemption requested by the noncontrolling shareholders. These treatments are based on the terms governing investments from, and on the terms of the classes of Sogou shares held by, the noncontrolling shareholders in Sogou. Principles of Allocation of Sogous Profit and Loss By virtue of the terms of Sogou Preferred Shares and Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares, Sogous losses are allocated in the following order: (i) net losses are allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares until their basis in Sogou decreases to zero; -53- Table of Contents (ii) additional net losses are allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares until their basis in Sogou decreases to zero; (iii) additional net losses are allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares until its basis in Sogou decreases to zero; and (iv) further net losses are allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Net income from Sogou is allocated in the following order: (i) net income is allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou until their basis in Sogou increases to zero; (ii) additional net income is allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares to bring its basis back; (iii) additional net income is allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares to bring their basis back; (iv) further net income is allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares to bring their basis back; and (v) further net income is allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Key Terms of Sogou Preferred Shares The following is a summary of some of the key terms of the Sogou Preferred Shares under Sogous Memorandum and Articles of Association as currently in effect. (i) Dividend Rights Sogou may not declare or pay dividends on its Class A Ordinary Shares or Class B Ordinary Shares (collectively, Ordinary Shares) unless the holders of the Sogou Preferred Shares then outstanding first receive a dividend on each outstanding Preferred Share in an amount at least equal to the sum of (i) the dividends that would have been payable to the holder of such Preferred Share if such share had been converted into Ordinary Shares, at the then-applicable conversion rate, immediately prior to the record date for such dividend, and (ii) all accrued and unpaid dividends (Accrued Dividends). Accrued Dividends are calculated from the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Shares at the rate per annum of $0.0375 per Series A Preferred Share and from the date of issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares at the rate per annum of $0.411 per Series B Preferred Share. (ii) Liquidation Rights In the event of any Liquidation Event, such as the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Sogou, a merger or consolidation of Sogou resulting in a change of control, the sale of substantially all of Sogous assets or similar events, the holders of Series B Preferred Shares are entitled to receive an amount per share equal to the greater of (i) $6.847 plus any unpaid Accrued Dividends or (ii) such amount per share as would have been payable if the Series B Preferred Shares had been converted into Ordinary Shares prior the Liquidation Event, and holders of Series A Preferred Shares are entitled to receive, after payment to the holders of the Series B Preferred Shares but before any payment to holders of Ordinary Shares, an amount equal to the greater of (i) 1.3 times their original investment in the Series A Preferred Shares plus Accrued Dividends or (ii) such amount per share as would be payable if the Series A Preferred Shares had been converted into Ordinary Shares immediately prior to the Liquidation Event. (iii) Redemption Rights The Sogou Preferred Shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. -54- Table of Contents (iv) Conversion Rights Each Sogou Preferred Share is convertible, at the option of the holder, at any time, and without the payment of additional consideration by the holder. Each Sogou Preferred Share is convertible into such number of Class A Ordinary Shares as is determined, in the case of Series A Preferred Shares, by dividing $0.625 by the then-effective conversion price for Series A Preferred Shares, which is initially $0.625, and, in the case of Series B Preferred Shares, by dividing $7.267 by the then-effective conversion price for Series B Preferred Shares, which is initially $7.267. The conversion prices of the Sogou Preferred Shares are subject to adjustment on a weighted average basis upon the issuance of additional equity shares, or securities convertible into equity shares, at a price per share less than $0.625, in the case of Series A Preferred Shares, or less than $7.267, in the case of Series B Preferred Shares, subject to certain customary exceptions, such as shares issued pursuant to the Sogou 2010 Share Incentive Plan. Each Sogou Preferred Share will be automatically converted into Class A Ordinary Shares of Sogou upon the closing of an IPO of Sogou with certain parameters based on the then-effective conversion ratio of such Sogou Preferred Share, which is currently one-for-one for both Series A Preferred Shares and Series B Preferred Shares. (v) Voting Rights Each holder of Sogou Preferred Shares is entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of Class A Ordinary Shares into which the Sogou Preferred Shares held by such holder are then convertible. (vi) Other Rights The holders of Sogou Preferred Shares have various other rights typical of preferred share investments. Key Terms of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares The Class A Ordinary Shares and Class B Ordinary Shares have identical rights, except that Class B Ordinary Shares do not have voting rights unless the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding Class B Ordinary Shares elect, by written notice to Sogou, to convert them into shares with voting rights. Voting Agreement Signed among Sohu, Tencent, and Sogou in August 2017 In August 2017, in anticipation of Sogous previously-announced currently pending proposed IPO, Sohu, Tencent, and Sogou entered into the Voting Agreement, which will take effect upon the completion of the proposed IPO. Effective upon the completion of the proposed IPO, all of the Sogou shares held by us for our own account and all of the Sogou shares held by Tencent will be redesignated as Class B Ordinary Shares. Each Class B Ordinary Share will be entitled to ten votes per share on any matter brought to a vote of Sogou shareholders, whereas Class A Ordinary Shares, which will be held by shareholders other than us and Tencent, will be entitled to one vote per share. As a result of the additional voting power of the Class B Ordinary Shares, upon the completion of the proposed IPO Sogou and Tencent will together have the power to determine all matters that may come to a vote of Sogous shareholders, including the election of directors. Under the Voting Agreement, following the completion of Sogous proposed IPO, we will have the right to appoint a majority of Sogous Board of Directors and Tencent will have the right to appoint two directors. We will continue to consolidate Sogou in our financial statements following the completion of the proposed IPO, and will provide for non-controlling interests reflecting ordinary shares in Sogou held by shareholders other than us. Noncontrolling Interest for Changyou Changyou is a public company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of September 30, 2017, we held approximately 68% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 95% of the total voting power in Changyou. As Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than us (the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders). Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, based on their share of the economic interest in Changyou. Changyous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity, adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in our ownership in Changyou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. -55- Table of Contents Segment Reporting Our Groups segments are business units that offer different services and are reviewed separately by the chief operating decision maker (the CODM), or the decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The CODM is Sohu.com Inc.s Chief Executive Officer. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. The recognition of revenues involves certain management judgments. The amount and timing of our revenues could be materially different for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Revenues or expenses from barter transactions are recognized at fair value during the period in which the advertisements are provided only if the fair value of the advertising services surrendered in the transaction is determinable based on our historical practice of receiving cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, or other consideration that is readily convertible to a known amount of cash for similar advertising from buyers unrelated to the counterparty in the barter transaction. Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues include revenues from brand advertising services as well as search and search-related advertising services. We recognize revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our advertisers, after deducting agent rebates and net of value-added tax (VAT) and related surcharges. Brand Advertising Revenues Business Model Through PCs and mobile devices, we provide advertisement placements to our advertisers on different Internet platforms and in different formats, which include banners, links, logos, buttons, full screen, pre-roll, mid-roll, post-roll video screens, pause video screens, loading page ads, news feed ads and in-feed video infomercial ads. Currently we have four main types of pricing models, consisting of the Fixed Price model, the Cost Per Impression (CPM) model, the Cost Per click (CPC) model, and the E-commerce model. (i) Fixed Price model Under the Fixed Price model, a contract is signed to establish a fixed price for the advertising services to be provided. We recognize revenue based on the contract price and the period of display. (ii) CPM model Under the CPM model, the unit price for each qualifying display is fixed, but there is no overall fixed price for the advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. A qualifying display is defined as the appearance of an advertisement, where the advertisement meets criteria specified in the contract. We recognize revenue based on the fees we charge the advertisers, which are based on the unit prices and the number of qualifying displays. (iii) CPC model Under the CPC model, there is no overall fixed price for advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. We charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the advertisements. The unit price for each click is auction-based. We recognize revenue based on qualifying clicks and the unit price. (iv) E-commerce model Under the e-commerce model, revenues were mainly generated from sales of membership cards which allow potential home buyers to purchase specified properties from real estate developers at a discount greater than the price that Focus charges for the card. Membership fees are refundable until the potential home buyer uses the discounts to purchase properties. Focus recognizes such revenues upon obtaining confirmation that the membership card has been redeemed to purchase a property. -56- Table of Contents Revenue Recognition For brand advertising revenue recognition, prior to entering into contracts, we make a credit assessment of the advertiser. For contracts for which collectability is determined to be reasonably assured, we recognize revenue when all revenue recognition criteria are met. In other cases, we only recognize revenue when the cash is received and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We treat advertising contracts with multiple deliverable elements as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and recognize revenue on a periodic basis during the contract period when each deliverable service is provided. Since the contract price is for all deliverables under one advertising contract, we allocate the contract price among all the deliverables at the inception of the arrangement on the basis of their relative selling prices according to the selling price hierarchy established by ASU No. 2009-13 . We first use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists. If vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price does not exist, we use third-party evidence of selling price. If neither vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price nor third-party evidence of selling price exists, we use managements best estimate of selling price for the deliverables. Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Search and search-related services consist primarily of search and search-related advertising services offered by Sogou. Pay-for-click Services Pay-for-click services are services that enable our advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogous search results pages and other Internet properties and third parties Internet properties where the links are relevant to the subject and content of searches and such properties. For pay-for-click services, we introduce Internet users to our advertisers through our auction-based systems and charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Revenue for pay-for-click services is recognized on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Other Online Advertising Services Other online advertising services mainly consist of displaying advertisers promotional links on Sogous Internet properties. Revenue for time-based advertising is normally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, provided our obligations under the contract have been met and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue for performance-based advertising services is recognized when our obligations under the contract have been met. Sogous advertising services expand distribution of advertisers promotional links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on third parties Internet properties, including Web content, software, and mobile applications. We recognize gross revenue for the amount of fees we receive from advertisers, as we are the primary obligor to the advertisers. Payments made to operators of third-party Internet properties are included in traffic acquisition costs, which are included in cost of search and search-related advertising revenues. Online Game Revenues Changyous online game revenues are generated primarily from its self-operated and licensed-out PC games and mobile games. Prior to the sale of the Shenzhen 7Road business in 2015, Changyou generated online game revenues from Web games, which have been an insignificant part of Changyous business since the sale. Changyous online game revenues also include revenues generated from online card and board games offered by MoboTap. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where the basic game play functions are free of charge and players are charged for purchases of in-game virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time and perpetual virtual items. Self-Operated Games Changyou is the primary obligor of its self-operated games. Changyou hosts the games on its own servers and is responsible for the sale and marketing of the games as well as customer service. Accordingly, revenues are recorded gross of revenue sharing-payments to third-party developers and/or mobile APP stores, but are net of business tax/VAT and discounts to game card distributors where applicable. Changyou obtains revenues from the sale of in-game virtual items. Revenues are recognized over the estimated lives of the virtual items purchased by game players or as the virtual items are consumed. If different assumptions were used in deriving the estimated lives of the virtual items, the timing of the recording of the revenues would be impacted. -57- Table of Contents PC Games Proceeds from the self-operation of PC games are collected from players and third-party game card distributors through sales of Changyous game points on its online payment platform and prepaid game cards. Self-operated PC games are either developed in house or licensed from third-party developers. For licensed PC games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Mobile Games For self-operated mobile games, Changyou sells game points to its game players via third-party mobile APP stores. The mobile APP stores in turn pay Changyou proceeds after deducting their share of pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. Self-operated mobile games are either developed in house or licensed from or jointly developed with third-party developers. For licensed and jointly developed mobile games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to mobile application stores and third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Web Games Changyou continued to operate a small portfolio of self-operated Web games after its sale of the Shenzhen 7Road in 2015. Proceeds from those self-operated Web games are collected from players through the sale of game points. Licensed-Out Games Changyou also authorizes third parties to operate its online games. Licensed out games include PC games and mobile games developed in house (such as its mobile game Legacy TLBB) and mobile games jointly developed with third-party developers. Changyou receives monthly revenue-based royalty payments from all the third-party licensee operators. Changyou receives additional up-front license fees from certain third-party licensee operators who are entitled to an exclusive right to operate Changyous games in specified geographic areas. Since Changyou is obligated to provide post-sale services, the initial license fees are recognized as revenue ratably over the license period, and the monthly revenue-based royalty payments are recognized when relevant services are delivered, provided that collectability is reasonably assured. Changyou views the third-party licensee operators as Changyous customers and recognizes revenues on a net basis, as Changyou does not have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the game services. Changyou remits to the third-party developers a pre-agreed percentage of revenues from jointly-developed and licensed-out mobile games, and recognizes the revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers as cost of revenues or product development expenses. Other Revenues Sohu Other revenues attributable to Sohu consist primarily of revenues from paid subscription services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, interactive broadcasting services, and content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China. Sogou Other revenues attributable to Sogou are revenues from IVAS, primarily with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties, and revenues from other products and services that Sogou offers, including smart hardware products. Changyou Other revenues attributable to Changyou are primarily from its cinema advertising business and are also from IVAS. In its cinema advertising business, Changyou provides clients advertising placements in slots that are shown in theaters before the screening of movies. The rights to place advertisements in such advertising slots are granted under contracts Changyou signs with different theaters. When all the recognition criteria are met, revenues from cinema advertising are recognized based on a percentage of the advertising slots actually delivered or on a straight-line basis over the contract period. -58- Table of Contents Changyou provides IVAS primarily through software applications for PCs and mobile devices offered by MoboTap on the Dolphin Browser and by RaidCall. Revenues from IVAS are recognized during the period the service is rendered or items are consumed under the gross method, as Changyou is the principal obligor for provision of the services. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, content and license expenses, development, upgrade and technical support service fees, depreciation and amortization expenses, share-based compensation, and facilities expenses. These expenses are incurred for the enhancement and maintenance of our Internet platforms as well as for our products and services, including the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and cost of upgrades and technical support after the online games are available for marketing. Advertising Expenses Advertising expenses are included in sales and marketing expenses, and generally represent the expenses of promotions to create or stimulate a positive image of us or a desire to subscribe for our products and services. Advertising and promotional expenses are expensed as incurred. Share-based Compensation Expense Sohu (excluding Fox Video Limited), Sogou, Changyou, and Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video) have incentive plans for the granting of share-based awards, including stock options, share options and restricted share units, to members of the boards of directors, management and other key employees. For share-based awards for which a grant date has occurred, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income based on the fair value of the related share-based awards on their grant dates. For share-based awards for which the service inception date precedes the grant date, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income beginning on the service inception date and is re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the related share-based awards. Share-based compensation expense is charged to the shareholders equity or noncontrolling interest section in the consolidated balance sheets. The assumptions used in share-based compensation expense recognition represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change or different assumptions are used, our share-based compensation expense could be materially different for any period. Moreover, the estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value that ultimately will be realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by us for accounting purposes. Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, and Changyou Share-based Awards Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of stock options granted by Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) as share-based awards before 2006, the Black-Scholes valuation model was applied. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Sohu common stock contractually granted under the Sohu 2010 Stock Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Sohu and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair value at the grant date. In determining the fair values of the stock options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. -59- Table of Contents Sogou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sogou as share-based awards, a binomial model was applied. The determination of the fair value is affected by the fair value of the ordinary shares as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables, including risk-free interest rates, exercise multiples, expected forfeiture rates, the expected share price volatility rates, and expected dividends. The fair values of the ordinary shares were assessed using the income approach/discounted cash flow method, with a discount for lack of marketability, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Certain persons who became Sogou employees when Tencents Soso search and search-related businesses were transferred to Sogou on September 16, 2013 had been granted restricted share units under Tencents share award arrangements prior to the transfer of the businesses to Sogou. These Tencent restricted share units will continue to vest under the original Tencent share award arrangements provided the transferred employees continue to be employed by Sogou during the requisite service period. After the transfer of the Soso search and search-related businesses to Sogou, Sogou applied the guidance in ASC 505-50 to measure the related compensation expense, as the expense is deemed to have been incurred by Tencent as an investor on Sogous behalf, based on the then-current fair value at each reporting date. To determine the then-current fair value of the Tencent restricted share units granted to these employees, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was applied. Because Sogou is not required to reimburse Tencent for such share-based compensation expense, the related amount was recorded by Sogou as a capital contribution from Tencent. Changyou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of ordinary shares and restricted share units granted by Changyou as share-based awards in 2008, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted in 2009 shortly before Changyous IPO, the fair value of the underlying shares was determined based on Changyous offering price for its IPO. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted after Changyous IPO, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Changyou Class A ordinary shares contractually granted under the Changyou 2014 Share Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Changyou and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair values at the grant date. In determining the fair values of Changyou share options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. Compensation Expense Recognition For options and restricted share units granted with respect to Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) shares and Changyou shares, compensation expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For share options granted with respect to Sogou shares, compensation expense is recognized over the estimated period during which the service period requirement and performance target will be met, which is usually within one year. For Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses, compensation expense is recognized by Sogou on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, and the fair value of the share-based compensation is re-measured at each reporting date until the service has been provided. The number of share-based awards for which the service is not expected to be rendered over the requisite period is estimated, and no compensation expense is recorded for the number of awards so estimated. For Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares repurchased from our former President and Chief Financial Officer in the first quarter of 2017, share-based compensation expense is recognized by the Sohu Group in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income in an amount equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares at the repurchase date. Sohu Video Share-based Awards On January 4, 2012, Sohu Video, the holding entity of Sohus video division, adopted a 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the Video 2011 Share Incentive Plan) which provides for the issuance of up to 25,000,000 ordinary shares of Sohu Video (representing approximately 10% of the outstanding Sohu Video shares on a fully-diluted basis) to management and key employees of the video division and to Sohu management. As of September 30, 2017, grants of options for the purchase of 16,368,200 ordinary shares of Sohu Video had been contractually made, of which options for the purchase of 4,972,800 ordinary shares were vested. -60- Table of Contents For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , as of September 30, 2017, no grant date had occurred, because the broader terms and conditions of the option awards had neither been finalized nor mutually agreed upon with the recipients. Therefore the fair value of the awards was not determinable and could not be accounted for. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , our management determined that the service inception date with respect to vested option awards for the purchase of 4,972,800 shares had preceded the grant date. Therefore, we recognized compensation expense for these vested Sohu Video share-based awards and re-measured, and will re-measure, the compensation expense on each subsequent reporting date based on the then-current fair values of these vested awards until the grant date is established. Taxation Income Taxes Recognition Income taxes are accounted for using an asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if based on available evidence, it is considered that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making such determination, we consider factors including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future profitability, and tax planning strategies. If events were to occur in the future that would allow us to realize more of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the deferred tax assets that would increase income for the period when those events occurred. If events were to occur in the future that would require us to realize less of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that would decrease income for the period when those events occurred. Significant management judgment is required in determining income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets are related to net operating losses and temporary differences between accounting basis and tax basis for our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs, which are subject to corporate income tax in the PRC under the CIT law. Applicable Income Tax Rate Principal Entities Qualified as HNTEs The CIT Law generally applies an income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises but grants preferential tax treatment to HNTEs. Under this preferential tax treatment, HNTEs can enjoy an income tax rate of 15%, but need to re-apply every three years. During this three-year period, an HNTE must conduct a qualification self-review each year to ensure it meets the HNTE criteria and is eligible for the 15% preferential tax rate for that year. If an HNTE fails to meet the criteria for qualification as an HNTE in any year, the enterprise cannot enjoy the 15% preferential tax rate in that year, and must instead use the regular 25% CIT rate. As of September 30, 2017, the following principal entities were qualified as HNTEs and were entitled to an income tax rate of 15%. For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. Sohu New Momentum qualified as an HNTE for 2016 to 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. Sohu Internet. Sohu Internet qualified as an HNTE for 2015 to 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun re-applied for HNTE qualification in August 2017 and May 2017, respectively. New Medias re-application has been approved, and it is qualified as an HNTE for 2017 to 2019 and will need to re-apply for qualification in 2020. Pending approval of its re-application, Guanzhou Qianjun is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as if it had already qualified as an HNTE for 2017. For Sogous Business Sogou Information. Sogou Information qualified as an HNTE for 2015 to 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. -61- Table of Contents Sogou Technology. Sogou Technology re-applied for HNTE qualification in September 2017. Pending approval of its re-application, Sogou Technology is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as if it had already qualified as an HNTE for 2017. Sogou Network. Sogou Network qualified as an HNTE for 2016 to 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. For Changyous Business Gamease and AmazGame. Gamease and AmazGame re-applied for HNTEs qualification in August 2017 and October 2017, respectively. Pending approval of their re-applications, AmazGame and Gamease are entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as if they had already qualified as an HNTE for 2017. Gamespace. Gamespace qualified as HNTE for the years 2017 to 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Principal Entities Qualified as Software Enterprises and KNSEs The CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise is entitled to an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a Key National Software Enterprise (a KNSE) is entitled to a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10%. Enterprises wishing to enjoy the status of a Software Enterprise or a KNSE must perform a self-assessment each year to ensure they meet the criteria for qualification and file required supporting documents with the tax authorities before using the preferential CIT rates. These enterprises will be subject to the tax authorities assessment each year as to whether they are entitled to use the relevant preferential CIT treatments. If at any time during the preferential tax treatment years an enterprise uses the preferential CIT rates but the relevant authorities determine that it fails to meet applicable criteria for qualification, the relevant authorities may revoke the enterprises Software Enterprise/KNSE status. For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. In the second quarter of 2017, Sohu New Momentum completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents to entitle it to the first year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% as a Software Enterprise for 2016, and will follow the same process in 2018 to entitle it to the second year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% for 2017. For Sogous Business Sogou Technology. In the second quarter of 2017, Sogou Technology completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016, and will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. For Changyous Business AmazGame. In the second quarter of 2017, AmazGame completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016, and will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. In the third quarter of 2017, AmazeGame was qualified as a KNSE after the relevant government authorities assessment and was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2016. Wuhan Baina Information. In the second quarter of 2017, Wuhan Baina Information completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents to entitle it to the first year of an income tax exemption as a Software Enterprise for 2016, and will follow the same process in 2018 to entitle it to the second year of an income tax exemption for 2017. -62- Table of Contents PRC Withholding Tax on Dividends The CIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by foreign invested enterprises in the PRC to their immediate holding companies outside Mainland China. A lower withholding tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. A holding company in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% withholding tax rate under an arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital, if such holding company is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC foreign invested enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong holding company is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividend will remain subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. PRC Value Added Tax On May 1, 2016, the transition from the imposition of Business Tax to the imposition of VAT was expanded to all industries in China, and all of our revenues have been subject to VAT since that date. To record VAT payable, we adopted the net presentation method, which presents the difference between the output VAT (at a rate of 6%) and the available input VAT amount (at the rate applicable to the supplier). U.S. Corporate Income Tax Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation that is subject to U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income at a rate of up to 35%. To the extent that portions of its U.S. taxable income, such as Subpart F income or a dividend, are determined to be from sources outside of the U.S., subject to certain limitations, Sohu.com Inc. may be able to claim foreign tax credits to offset its U.S. income tax liabilities. Any remaining liabilities are accrued in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and estimated tax payments are made when required by U.S. law. Uncertain Tax Positions We are subject to various taxes in different jurisdictions, primarily the U.S. and the PRC. Management reviews regularly the adequacy of the provisions for taxes as they relate to our income and transactions. In order to assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. For the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Net Income /(Loss) per Share Basic net income / (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income / (loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and, if dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares comprise shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards using the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with performance requirements is not considered before the performance targets are actually met. The computation of diluted net income / (loss) per share does not assume conversion, exercise, or contingent issuance of securities that would have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e. an increase in earnings per share amounts or a decrease in loss per share amounts) on net income / (loss) per share. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the numerator of diluted net income / (loss) per share, the net income / (loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is adjusted as follows. The adjustment will not be made if there is an anti-dilutive effect. (i) Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Sogou Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares, shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred shares under the if-converted method, and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and is not determined by allocating Sogous net income /(loss) to Sohu.com Inc. using the methodology for the calculation of net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders. -63- Table of Contents In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income / (loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, the percentage of Sohu.com Inc.s shareholding in Sogou was calculated by treating convertible preferred shares issued by Sogou as having been converted at the beginning of the period and unvested Sogou share options with the performance targets achieved as well as vested but unexercised Sogou share options as having been exercised during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with a performance requirement was not considered before the performance targets were actually met. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Sogou shares and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted income /(loss) per share. As a result, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. (ii) Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Changyou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Changyou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Changyou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income/ (loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, all of Changyous existing unvested restricted share units and share options, and vested restricted share units and share options that have not yet been settled, are treated as vested and settled by Changyou under the treasury stock method, causing the percentage of the weighted average number of shares held by Sohu.com Inc. in Changyou to decrease. As a result, Changyous net income / (loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis decreased accordingly. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Changyou restricted share units and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Fair Value of Financial Instruments U.S. GAAP establishes a three-tier hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring the fair value of financial instruments. This hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The three-tier fair value hierarchy is: Level 1 - observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 - include other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the market place. Level 3 - unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. Our financial instruments mainly include cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments, accounts receivable, assets held for sale, prepaid and other current assets, long-term investments (including available-for-sale equity securities), restricted time deposits, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, receipts in advance and deferred revenue, liabilities held for sale, short-term bank loans, other short-term liabilities and long-term accounts payable. Cash Equivalents Our cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. Short-term Investments For investments in financial instruments with a variable interest rate indexed to the performance of underlying assets, we elected the fair value method at the date of initial recognition and carried these investments subsequently at fair value. Changes in fair values are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Accounts Receivable, Net The carrying value of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. We make estimations of the collectability of accounts receivable. Many factors are considered in estimating the general allowance, including reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, performing an aging analysis and a customer credit analysis, and analyzing historical bad debt records and current economic trends. -64- Table of Contents Available-for-Sale Securities Investments in debt securities and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values not classified as trading securities or as held-to-maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities, and are included in long-term investments. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income or losses in the consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income during the period in which the gain or loss is realized. An impairment loss on the available-for-sale securities is recognized in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income when the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. Foreign exchange forward contracts Foreign exchange forward contracts are initially recognized on the date a foreign exchange forward contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at fair value. Changyou entered into such foreign exchange forward contracts in compliance with its risk management policy for the purpose of eliminating the negative impact on earnings and equity resulting from fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB. The instruments are marked-to-market at each period-end with the associated changes in fair value recognized in the line item Other income /(expense), net in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Other short-term liabilities or Prepaid and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. Equity Investments Investments in entities are recorded as equity investments under long-term investments. For entities over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method is applied, as there is no readily determinable fair value; for entities over which we can exercise significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or control, the equity method is applied. For cost method investments, we carry the investment at historical cost after the date of investment. For equity method investments, we adjust the carrying amount of an investment and recognize investment income or loss for our share of the earnings or loss of the investee after the date of investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include fixed assets and intangible assets. Fixed Assets Fixed assets mainly comprise office buildings, leasehold improvements, building improvements, vehicles, office furniture and computer equipment and hardware. Fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation with no residual value. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Fixed Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Office buildings 36-47 Leasehold improvements Lesser of term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets Building improvements 10 Vehicles 4-10 Office furniture 5 Computer equipment and hardware 2-5 Expenditure for maintenance and repairs is expensed as incurred. The gain or loss on the disposal of fixed assets is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell the relevant assets and is recognized in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Intangible Assets Intangible assets mainly comprise domain names and trademarks, developed technologies, computer software, purchased video content, cinema advertising slot rights and operating rights for licensed games. Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization with no residual value. Amortization of intangible assets other than purchased video content is computed using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. -65- Table of Contents The estimated useful lives of our intangible assets are listed below: Intangible Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Domain names and trademarks 4-30 Developed technologies 3-10 Computer software 1-5 Video content 4 months to 2 years, or over the applicable licensing period Cinema advertising slot rights over the contract terms Operating rights for licensed games over the contract terms Impairment of Long-lived Assets In accordance with ASC 360-10-35 , we review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long-lived assets using the projected discounted cash flow method at the asset group level. The estimation of future cash flows requires significant management judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and is subject to many factors. The discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in our business model is determined by our management. An impairment loss would be recorded if we determined that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Video Content Video content consists primarily of purchased video content and self-developed video content. Purchased video content is recognized as intangible assets. Amortization of purchased video content is computed based on the trend in viewership accumulation. For self-developed video content, production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted for are expensed as incurred, instead of being recorded as intangible assets. Sohu Video enters into nonmonetary transactions to exchange online broadcasting rights for purchased video content with other online video broadcasting companies. Under ASC 845 , the cost of a nonmonetary asset acquired in exchange for another nonmonetary asset is the fair value of the asset surrendered to obtain the acquired nonmonetary asset, and a gain or loss should be recognized on the exchange. The fair value of the asset received should be used to measure the cost if the fair value of the asset received is more reliable than the fair value of the asset surrendered. We record these nonmonetary exchanges at the fair values of the online broadcasting rights for purchased video content and recognize any net gain or loss from such exchange transactions. Impairment of Video Content Purchased video content is stated at the lower of cost less accumulated amortization, or net realizable value (NRV). In accordance with ASC 920-350-35 , if managements expectations of the programming usefulness of a program, series, package, or program segment are revised downward, it may be necessary to write down unamortized cost to estimated NRV. A write-down from unamortized cost to a lower estimated NRV establishes a new cost basis. Accordingly, we measure the video contents impairment loss by comparing the contents carrying value to its NRV. An impairment loss will be recorded if the carrying value of video content is higher than its NRV. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of video content exceeds its NRV. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in our subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we report in our financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. If a measurement period adjustment is identified, we recognize the adjustment as part of the acquisition accounting. We increase or decrease the provisional amounts of identifiable assets or liabilities by means of increases or decreases in goodwill for measurement period adjustments. -66- Table of Contents In accordance with ASC 350 , we do not amortize goodwill, but test it for impairment. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of October 1, and between annual tests when an event occurs or circumstances change that could indicate that the asset might be impaired. Under ASC 350-20-35 , we have the option to choose whether we will apply a qualitative assessment first and then a quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply a quantitative assessment directly. For reporting units applying a qualitative assessment first, we start the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is mandatory. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying the quantitative assessment, we perform the goodwill impairment test by quantitatively comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. After performing the assessment, if the carrying amounts of the reporting units are higher than their fair value, we perform the second step of the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate fair value using the income approach or the market approach. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, control premium, comparable companies multipliers, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a company during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances excluding transactions resulting from investments from owners and distributions to owners. Accumulated other comprehensive income, as presented on our consolidated balance sheets, includes a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment and an unrealized gain/(loss) on available-for-sale securities. Functional Currency and Foreign Currency Translation An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates, normally that is the currency of the environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. Managements judgment is essential to determine the functional currency by assessing various indicators, such as cash flows, sales price and market, expenses, financing and inter-company transactions and arrangements. The functional currency of Sohu.com Inc. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in the U.S., the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our subsidiaries and VIEs in other countries are the national currencies of those counties, rather than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are re-measured at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at that date. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Financial statements of entities with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars, which is the reporting currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average of the exchange rates in effect during the reporting period. Shareholders equity accounts are translated using the historical exchange rates at the date the entry to shareholders equity was recorded, except for the change in retained earnings during the year, which is translated using the historical exchange rates used to translate each periods income statement. Differences resulting from translating a foreign currency to the reporting currency are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheets. -67- Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table presents our revenues by revenue source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Revenues Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 110,871 27 % 74,832 15 % (36,039 ) (33 )% $ 349,261 28 % 242,315 18 % (106,946 ) (31 )% Search and search-related advertising 150,667 37 % 225,363 43 % 74,696 50 % 444,633 36 % 554,145 41 % 109,512 25 % Subtotal of online advertising revenues 261,538 64 % 300,195 58 % 38,657 15 % 793,894 64 % 796,460 59 % 2,566 0 % Online game 98,553 24 % 132,427 26 % 33,874 34 % 300,309 24 % 340,150 25 % 39,841 13 % Others 50,491 12 % 83,439 16 % 32,948 65 % 144,469 12 % 214,722 16 % 70,253 49 % Total revenues $ 410,582 100 % 516,061 100 % 105,479 26 % $ 1,238,672 100 % 1,351,332 100 % 112,660 9 % Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues were $300.2 million and $796.5 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $261.5 million and $793.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. Online advertising revenues were generally stable for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. Brand Advertising Revenues, Generated by Sohu and Changyou Brand advertising revenues were $74.8 million and $242.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $110.9 million and $349.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in brand advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $36.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 33%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $107.0 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 31%. The year-on-year decrease in brand advertising revenues was mainly attributable to a decline in revenues from large advertisers as well as an adverse real estate advertising market. Sohu Sohu Media Portal Revenues from Sohu Media Portal were $37.9 million and $115.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $48.0 million and $140.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in revenues from Sohu Media Portal from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $10.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 21%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $24.2 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 17%. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $10,000 and $20,000, respectively, for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $26,000 and $47,000, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. While the slowdown in the growth of the economy in China shrank the budgets of brand advertisers, rapid growth in the number of small and medium enterprise (SME) customers advertising on Sohu Media Portal helped offset the impact to some extent. The number of advertisers for Sohu Media Portal was 3,881 and 5,773, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 1,865 and 2,997, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. -68- Table of Contents Sohu Video Revenues from Sohu Video were $18.9 million and $62.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $25.4 million and $98.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in revenues from Sohu Video from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $6.5 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 26%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $36.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 37%. The changes were mainly attributable to fluctuations both in the number of advertisers and in the average amount spent per advertiser. Both the number of advertisers and the average amount spent per advertiser for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 decreased compared to the corresponding periods in 2016, which led to the decreases in revenues from Sohu Video. The number of advertisers for Sohu Video was 152 and 296, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 208 and 385, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $124,000 and $210,000, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $122,000 and $256,000, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. Focus Revenues from Focus were $12.0 million and $45.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $25.8 million and $79.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in revenues from Focus from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $13.8 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 53%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $34.5 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 43%. Revenues from Focus were generated through the Fixed Price model and the E-commerce model. For the Fixed Price model, revenues were $8.2 million and $30.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $10.9 million and $36.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016, representing a year-on-year decrease of $2.7 million and $6.1 million, respectively, from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 and from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. For the E-commerce model, revenues were $3.8 million and $14.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $14.9 million and $43.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016, representing a year-on-year decrease of 75% and 66%, repectively, from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 and from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The decrease was mainly driven by sharp declines in the numbers of paying subscribers and cooperative developers, resulting from the PRC governments implementation of tightened real estate policies starting from the beginning of 2017. The number of developers with which we had cooperation arrangements was 364 and 937, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 725 and 1,234, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The number of paying subscribers for the membership services was 3,745 and 22,620, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 26,233 and 74,050, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. Changyou 17173.com Website Revenues from the 17173.com Website were $6.0 million and $19.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $11.7 million and $31.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in revenues from 17173.com Website for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $5.7 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 49%, and the decrease for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $12.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 39%. The decrease was mainly due to fewer PC games being launched in China and our new mobile initiatives being at an early stage. The number of advertisers on the 17173.com Website was 89 and 148, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 106 and 163, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $67,000 and $128,000, respectively, for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $110,000 and $191,000, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. -69- Table of Contents Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues, Generated by Sogou Search and search-related advertising revenues were $225.4 million and $554.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $150.7 million and $444.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in search and search-related advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $74.7 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 50%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $109.5 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 25%. The increases were mainly driven by robust traffic growth and improved monetization on the mobile end. The increase in search and search-related advertising revenues mainly consisted of an increase in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services, which accounted for approximately 84% and 83%, respectively, of the total search and search-related revenues for the three and the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 78% and 77%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The growth in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services resulted from increases both in the number of advertisers and in average revenue per advertiser (or ARPA). The number of auction-based pay-for-click advertisers was approximately 77,000 and 115,000, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 63,000 and 100,000, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The ARPA for auction-based pay-for-click services was $2,455 and $3,987, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $1,859 and $3,442, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in auction-based pay-for-click advertisers was primarily driven by a successful expansion of our network of advertising agencies. The increase in ARPA was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of paid clicks, but ARPA for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was adversely affected by depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The total number of our paid clicks increased by 65% and 35%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, primarily driven by strong growth in mobile paid clicks as a result of rapidly-growing mobile search traffic, and an improved click-through rate on the mobile end, which was partially offset by declining PC paid clicks. Online Game Revenues Generated by Changyou Revenues from the online game business were $132.4 million and $340.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $98.6 million and $300.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The year-over-year increases were mainly due to the revenue contribution of the Legacy TLBB mobile game, which was launched in the middle of the second quarter of 2017. PC Games and Mobile Games Revenues from PC games were $58.3 million and $180.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $70.4 million and $204.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in revenues from PC games from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $12.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 17%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $23.5 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 12%. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from PC games was mainly due to the natural decline in revenues of TLBB, which is an older PC game. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, the PC game TLBB generated $48.3 million and $149.4 million, respectively, in revenues, accounting for approximately 36% and 44%, respectively, of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 29% and 34%, respectively, of Changyous total revenues and approximately 9% and 11%, respectively, of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Revenues from mobile games were $73.7 million and $157.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $27.3 million and $92.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in revenues from mobile games from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $46.4 million, representing a year-on-year increase rate of 170%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $65.3 million, representing a year-on-year increase rate of 71%. The increase in revenues from mobile games was mainly driven by the successful launch of the new mobile game Legacy TLBB in the second quarter of 2017. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, the mobile game Legacy TLBB generated $56.2 million and $104.2 million, respectively, in revenues, accounting for approximately 42% and 31%, respectively, of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 34% and 24%, respectively, of Changyous total revenues, and approximately 11% and 8%, respectively, of the Sohu Groups total revenues. -70- Table of Contents The following table sets forth certain operating data for Changyous PC games and mobile games for the periods indicated: Average Monthly Active Accounts (1) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 (in millions) PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games 2016 3.0 3.2 2.9 2.4 2.7 2.8 2017 2.4 1.1 2.4 7.4 2.3 5.2 Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts (2) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 (in millions) PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games 2016 1.1 0.8 1.0 0.6 1.0 0.7 2017 0.9 0.3 0.9 2.5 0.8 1.4 (1) Average Monthly Active Accounts for a given period refers to the number of registered accounts that were logged in to these games at least once during the period. (2) Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts for a given quarter refers to the number of accounts from which game points were used at least once during the quarter. Web Games Revenues from Web games were $0.4 million and $1.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $0.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. Other Revenues Revenues from other services were $83.4 million and $214.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $50.4 million and $144.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the corresponding period of 2017 was $33.0 million, consisting of a $9.3 million increase in revenues from smart hardware products, a $6.8 million increase in revenues from sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, a $6.6 million increase in paid subscription services, a $5.8 million increase in IVAS revenues. The increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the corresponding period of 2017 was $70.2 million, consisting mainly of a $17.8 million increase in revenues from the cinema advertisement business, a $15.5 million increase in IVAS revenues, a $14.9 million increase in paid subscription service revenues, and a $12.0 million increase in revenues from smart hardware products. -71- Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues by source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 102,137 46 % 75,733 29 % (26,404 ) (26 )% $ 281,427 45 % 280,660 37 % (767 ) (0 )% Search and search-related advertising 76,457 34 % 115,422 44 % 38,965 51 % 210,547 34 % 294,221 39 % 83,674 40 % Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 178,594 80 % 191,155 73 % 12,561 7 % 491,974 79 % 574,881 76 % 82,907 17 % Online game 23,719 11 % 17,560 7 % (6,159 ) (26 )% 75,232 12 % 45,678 6 % (29,554 ) (39 )% Others 20,571 9 % 53,679 20 % 33,108 161 % 60,783 9 % 138,908 18 % 78,125 129 % Total cost of revenues $ 222,884 100 % 262,394 100 % 39,510 18 % $ 627,989 100 % 759,467 100 % 131,478 21 % -72- Table of Contents Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues was $191.2 million and $574.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $178.6 million and $492.0 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in cost of online advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $12.6 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 7%.The increase in cost of online advertising revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $82.9 million, representing a year-on-year growth of 17%. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, salary and benefits expense, and depreciation expense. Cost of brand advertising revenues was $75.7 million and $280.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $102.1 million and $281.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in cost of brand advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $26.4 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 26%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $17.4 million decrease in content and license costs, and a $3.0 million decrease in salary and benefits expense. The decrease in cost of brand advertising revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $0.7 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 0.2%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $12.6 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, a $7.1 million decrease in salary and benefits expense, a $2.3 million decrease in depreciation expense, a $1.7 million decrease in travelling and entertainment expense, and a $1.2 million decrease in facilities expense, offset by a $24.1 million increase in content and license costs resulting primarily from an impairment charge related to video content in the second quarter of 2017. In the second quarter of 2017, we recognized an impairment loss of $44.9 million, which was mainly due to the ongoing restructuring of the sales team of Sohu Video as well as a strategic shift to reduce purchasing of licensed video content beginning in the second half of 2016. These two factors had an adverse impact on Sohu Videos performance for the second quarter of 2017, which failed to meet managements expectations. Our brand advertising gross margin was negative 1% and negative 16%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared to 8% and 19%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The year-over-year decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from Sohu Video and the impairment loss recognized with respect to video content in the second quarter of 2017. Cost of Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, depreciation expenses, as well as salary and benefits expenses. Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues was $115.4 million and $294.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared to $76.5 million and $210.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in cost of search and search-related advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $38.9 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $33.0 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $3.6 million increase in depreciation expense and a $1.7 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. The increase in cost of search and search-related advertising revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $83.7 million. The increase mainly consisted of $67.3 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $10.6 million increase in depreciation expense, a $6.2 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, and a $4.2 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. Our search and search-related advertising gross margin was 49% and 47%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared to 49% and 53%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decreases in our search and search-related advertising gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 were mainly due to higher traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of search and search-related advertising revenues. -73- Table of Contents Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments, salary and benefits expense, amortization and depreciation expenses, and content and license costs. Cost of online game revenues was $17.6 million and $45.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $23.7 million and $75.2 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in cost of online game revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $6.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 26%. The decrease consisted primarily of a $3.5 million decrease in revenue-sharing payments to mobile APP stores and third-party developers, and a $1.5 million decrease in professional fee expenses. The decrease in cost of online game revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $29.5 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 39%. The decrease consisted primarily of a $16.4 million decrease in revenue-sharing payments to mobile APP stores and third-party developers, a $5.4 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, and a $4.5 million decrease in salary and benefits expense. Our online game gross margin was 87% for both the three months and the nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to 76% and 75%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in our online game gross margin was mainly due to the successful launch of Legacy TLBB in the second quarter of 2017, which has a high gross margin as revenue is recognized on a net basis after revenue-sharing with Tencent. Cost of Other Revenues Cost of other revenues mainly consists of payments to theaters for pre-film screening advertising slots, cost of smart hardware products, content and license costs related to paid subscription services, revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business, and revenue-sharing payments related to interactive broadcasting services. Cost of other revenues was $53.7 million and $138.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $20.6 million and $60.8 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in cost of other revenues for the three and nine months period was mainly due to increased payments to theaters for pre-film screening advertising slots of $10.7 million and $27.9 million, respectively, increased cost of smart hardware products of $8.4 million and $12.2 million, respectively, and increased content and license costs related to paid subscription services of $8.2 million and $25.3 million, respectively. -74- Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses by nature and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 2016 2017 2017 vs 2016 Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Incremental ratio Operating expenses: Product development $ 90,007 38 % 105,162 31 % 15,155 17 % $ 261,645 39 % 289,406 38 % 27,761 11 % Sales and marketing 110,584 46 % 111,935 34 % 1,351 1 % 318,597 47 % 296,866 39 % (21,731 ) (7 )% General and administrative 38,670 16 % 31,038 9 % (7,632 ) (20 )% 95,927 14 % 87,045 12 % (8,882 ) (9 )% Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 0 0 % 86,882 26 % 86,822 100 % 0 0 % 86,882 11 % 86,882 100 % Total operating expenses $ 239,261 100 % 335,017 100 % 95,756 40 % $ 676,169 100 % 760,199 100 % 84,030 12 % Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, content and license expenses, development, upgrade and technical support service fees, depreciation and amortization expenses, and facilities expenses. Product development expenses were $105.2 million and $289.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared to $90.0 million and $261.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in product development expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $15.2 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $8.6 million increase in content and license expenses, and a $7.4 million increase in salary and benefits expense, offset by a $1.9 million decrease in share-based compensation expense. -75- Table of Contents The increase in product development expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $27.8 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $15.2 million increase in content and license expenses, a $8.0 million increase in salary and benefits expense, a $3.7 million increase in share-based compensation expense, and a $2.5 million increase in technical service fees, offset by a $2.0 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenditures, salary and benefits expenses, travel expenses, and facility expenses. Sales and marketing expenses were $111.9 million and $296.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $110.6 million and $318.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in sales and marketing expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $1.3 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $2.8 million increase in advertising and promotional expenditures, offset by a $0.7 million decrease in travelling and entertainment expense, a $0.4 million decrease in office expense, and a $0.4 million decrease in share-based compensation expense. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $21.7 million. The decrease mainly consisted of a $16.1 million decrease in advertising and promotional expenditures, and a $5.4 million decrease in salary and benefits expense. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, professional service fees, share-based compensation expense, facilities expense, depreciation and amortization expenses, and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses were $31.0 million and $87.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $38.7 million and $95.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The decrease in general and administrative expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2016 to the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $7.7 million. The decrease mainly consisted of a $4.3 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, a $1.9 million decrease in technical service fees, and a $1.3 million decrease in salary and benefits expense, offset by a $0.6 increase in facilities expense. The decrease in general and administrative expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $8.9 million. The decrease mainly consisted of a $6.5 million decrease in salary and benefits expense, and a $5.4 million decrease in professional service fees, offset by a $5.2 million increase in share-based compensation expense. Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions In the third quarter of 2017, Changyou recognized goodwill impairment associated with MoboTap. For the online card and board games conducted by MoboTap, due to reinforced restrictions the Chinese regulatory authorities imposed on online card and board games, some of Changyous key distribution partners informed Changyou that they had decided to stop the distribution and promotion of card and board games in the third quarter of 2017, which had an adverse impact on MoboTaps current performance, and also increased the uncertainty for its future operations and cash flow. As a result, Changyou determined that it is unlikely for MoboTap to gain users and grow its online card and board games revenues in China. Changyou management performed an impairment test in the third quarter of 2017 using the discounted cash flow method, and impairment charges of $86.9 million were recognized to reflect the fair value of the MoboTap business, of which an $83.5 million impairment loss was recognized for goodwill and a $3.4 million impairment loss was recognized for intangible assets. -76- Table of Contents Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense was recognized in costs and expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, Share-based compensation expense 2016 2017 2016 2017 Cost of revenues $ 295 $ 281 $ 294 $ 696 Product development expense 4,105 2,247 5,801 9,499 Sales and marketing expenses 752 344 927 1,939 General and administrative expenses 8,018 3,682 9,125 14,330 $ 13,170 $ 6,554 $ 16,147 $ 26,464 Share-based compensation expense recognized for share awards of Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, Changyou and Sohu Video as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, Share-based compensation expense 2016 2017 2016 2017 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 5,639 $ 4,086 $ 4,749 $ 4,088 For Sogou share-based awards (2) 180 310 2,505 5,302 For Changyou share-based awards 7,202 2,208 9,340 17,223 For Sohu Video share-based awards (1) 149 (50 ) (447 ) (149 ) $ 13,170 $ 6,554 $ 16,147 $ 26,464 Note (1): The negative amount represented re-measured compensation expense based on the then-current fair value of the awards on the reporting date. Note (2): Compensation expense for Sogou share-based awards also includes compensation expense for Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses and compensation expense of $4.0 million, recognized in the first quarter of 2017 in connection with Sogous repurchase of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares from the former President and Chief Financial Officer of the Sohu Group, which is equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares as of the repurchase date. As of September 30, 2017, unrecognized share-based compensation expense for Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou and Changyou share-based awards was as follows (in thousands): Unrecognized share-based compensation expense As of September 30, 2017 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ (1,975 ) For Sogou share-based awards (3) 86 For Changyou share-based awards 7,024 $ 5,135 Note (3): Includes the unrecognized compensation expense for employees who transferred from Tencent with Soso search and search-related businesses. Operating Profit/(Loss) For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we had an operating loss of $81.4 million and $168.3 million, respectively, compared to an operating loss of $51.6 million and $65.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. -77- Table of Contents Other Income / (Loss) We had other loss of $5.1 million and other income of $2.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to other income of $3.7 million and other loss of $17.0 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The change for the three months ended September 30, 2017, was mainly due to a $5.8 million impairment loss recognized in the third quarter of 2017 related to Keyeast. The change for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, was mainly due to a $27.8 million one-time expense recognized in the second quarter of 2016 related to a donation by Sogou to Tsinghua University related to setting up a joint research institute focusing on artificial intelligence technology, as well as a $5.8 million impairment loss recognized in the third quarter of 2017 related to Keyeast. Interest Income Interest income was $6.5 million and $16.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $6.3 million and $17.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense was $1.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $0.2 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2016. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $15.9 million and $39.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to $1.0 million and $15.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in income tax expense was mainly due to an increase in online game revenues as a result of the launch of Changyous new mobile game Legacy TLBB in the second quarter of 2017, offset by a reversal of PRC income tax expense of $5.1 million in the third quarter of 2017 for the preferential tax rate that one of Changyous subsidiaries received in 2017 as a KNSE for 2016. Net Loss For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, we had net loss of $102.0 million and $200.4 million, respectively, compared to net loss of $42.0 million and $77.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2016. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $1.9 million and $60.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared to $32.8 million and $80.2 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2016. Net Loss Attributable to Sohu.com Inc. As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $104.0 million and $260.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, compared to a net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $74.8 million and $158.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2016. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Resources Analysis Liquidity Sources and Balances Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows generated from our operations. Cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. Short-term investments comprise investment instruments issued by commercial banks in China, with a variable interest rate indexed to performance of underlying assets and maturity dates within one year. -78- Table of Contents As of September 30, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.0 billion, and short-term investments of $304.3 million. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $430.4 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $610.2 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Our VIEs held $55.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents and $985.2 million was held outside of our VIEs. We believe our current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs (net cash used in operating activities), commitments, capital expenditures, and investment activities over the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions and other future developments, or changes in general economic conditions. See Restrictions and Limitations on Cash Available to Sohu.com Inc. below and