Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Summary of Our Business. If Changyous online game revenues, and those from TLBB in particular, decrease or do not continue to grow, our revenues, net income and cash flows are likely to be adversely affected. In particular, if Changyou fails to improve and update TLBB on a timely basis, or if Changyous competitors introduce more popular games catering to Changyous game-player base, TLBB could lose its popularity, which could cause significant decrease in our revenues, net income and cash flow. Furthermore, if there are any interruptions in TLBBs operations due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players may be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which could also cause significant decreases in our revenues, net income and cash flow. 39 We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content and services targeting Chinese Internet users. We compete with distributors of content and services over the Internet, including content sites, Web directories, search engines, online games, Internet service providers and sites maintained by government and educational institutions. These sites compete with us for user traffic, advertising dollars, online game players, potential partners and mobile services. The Internet market in China is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and expected to increase significantly in the future, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. We have many competitors in the PRC Internet market, including among others Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu, Sina, NetEase, Phoenix, iQIYI, YoukuTudou, SouFun, Leju, Autohome, BitAuto, Qihoo, UCWeb, Google, Microsoft, YY, Shanda, Perfect World, Giant, Kalends Inc., NetDragon and Shenzhen ZQGame and Kingsoft. We compete with our peers and competitors in China primarily on the following basis: access to financial resources; gateway to a host of Internet user activities; technological advancements; attractiveness of products; brand recognition; volume of traffic and users; quality of Websites and content; strategic relationships; quality of services; effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; talented staff; and pricing; Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us including: greater brand recognition among Internet users and clients; better products and services; larger user and advertiser bases; more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and substantially greater financial and technical resources. Our existing competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain a greater market share through launching of new products, introducing new technologies, or forming alliances among themselves, or may enhance their ability to compete with us through mergers and acquisitions or financing activities. For example, during the past few years, many of our competitors have successfully raised significant amounts of capital through IPOs, follow-on public equity offerings, and convertible bond offerings. Several of our competitors have also conducted private placements of equity or debt that included alliances with larger partners who are able to bring them strategic advantages in addition to financing. By enhancing their capital bases and forming strategic alliances, our competitors have strengthened their competitiveness and gained greater brand recognition. As a result, we are likely to need additional financial and additional strategic resources in order to compete effectively in the primary markets in which we operate. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing products or in attracting and retaining users and advertisers, our revenues and growth rates could decline. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In addition, operators of leading Websites or Internet service providers, including Tencent, Alibaba, Baidu, Google and Microsoft, currently offer, and could expand, their online products and services targeting China. Such entities may cooperate with other organizations in China to accelerate their entry into, and to enhance their competitiveness in, the key Chinese markets in which we operate. 40 If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new products, features and services, our ability to attract and retain users and generate revenues could be harmed. We are continually developing new products, features and services for our users. The planned timing or introduction of new products, features and services is subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual timing may differ materially from original plans. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of our new products or services. Emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products, features and services faster than we can. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of our new products, features and services will achieve widespread market acceptance or generate incremental revenue. In addition, we may experience difficulties in promoting our new products, features and services as a result of the significant market power of our competitors or any anti-competitive practices they might engage in. For example, our efforts to increase Sogou Input Methods market share and Sogou Browsers penetration of the market through the frequent launch and promotion of new functions in our existing products have been impeded by certain of our existing competitors actions. Such actions have included using products, with the stated premise of protecting users Internet security, to present technical obstacles to Sogou Input Method and Sogou Browser, such as preventing the installation or interrupting the running of Sogou Input Method and Sogou Browser or inducing users to uninstall Sogou Browser. As a result, despite considerable efforts in this regard, we may fail to attract and retain users. As devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones, tablets and other internet-enabled mobile devices, are increasingly used to access the Internet, we believe that we must develop products and applications for such devices if we are to maintain or increase our market share and revenues, and we may not be successful in doing so. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones, tablets, wearable devices and other internet-enabled mobile devices, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets to access the Internet. We believe that, for our business to be successful, we will need to design, develop, promote and operate new products and applications that will be popular with such devices. The design and development of new products and applications may not be successful. We may encounter difficulties with the installation of such new products and applications for mobile devices, and such products and applications may not function smoothly. As new devices are released or updated, we may encounter problems in developing and upgrading our products or applications for use on mobile devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such products or applications for mobile devices. Our business depends on a strong brand; thus we will not be able to attract users, customers and clients of our products and offerings if we do not maintain and develop our brands. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our user base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the number of Internet users in China grows. In order to attract and retain Internet users, brand advertising, search, online game and mobile customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if users to our Websites or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting users, advertisers, online game players and mobile users. Our failure to keep up with rapid technology changes may severely affect our future success. The Internet industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly evolving technologies, adapt our services to changing industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our services. If we fail to adapt to such changes, our business may be adversely affected. For example, with the emergence of cloud computing technology, the primary Internet technology platform has been transformed from a traditional platform to a cloud computing platform. If we fail to adapt to the transformation, our products and services upgrade process will fall behind our competitors, and accordingly weaken our capacity to adapt our technology to the market. Furthermore, cloud computing itself is a significant business opportunity. If we fail to seize the opportunity, we will lose our ability to capture a share of that market. In addition, as mobile devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the Internet, we must develop products and services for such devices. To meet advertisers needs in targeting potential advertisers accurately, we need to develop and operate a more effective system for our advertising delivery, tracking and recording. Otherwise, we will not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and market share. In the meantime, the MIIT and other PRC governmental authorities can be expected to regularly promulgate standards and other regulations regarding Internet software and other Internet-based technologies. Adapting to any such standards and regulations could require us to make significant expenditures in the future. 41 Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in impairment losses. As a component of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. For example, in 2014 Changyou recognized a $33.8 million impairment loss for goodwill and a $15.3 million impairment loss for acquired intangible assets related to RaidCall, as a result of Changyous managements assessment that the impairments existed based on its conclusion that RaidCall was unable to provide expected synergies with Changyous online games business. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test for goodwill impairment annually or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Currently our brand advertising business is losing money, and goodwill under the brand advertising reporting unit will be impaired if the losses continue. We are also required to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Any changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our performance is largely dependent on talented and highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee share options and restricted stock units to align employees interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted revised guidance on accounting for share-based compensation, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee share options and restricted stock units. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of comprehensive income would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee stock incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure that there will be no changes in the accounting rules for share-based compensation in future; thus our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace may be adversely affected. Our failure to manage growth and adapt to evolving industry trends and business models could harm us. We have experienced dramatic growth in personnel in the past and we expect to continue to hire additional personnel. This growth requires significant time and resource commitments from us and our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or anticipate our future growth, our business could be adversely affected. As we have over 13,000 employees, it can be difficult for us to fully monitor each employees behavior. In addition, as we are expanding our business into many cities throughout China to provide localized products and services, it is harder for us to monitor and regulate the overall behavior of our branch offices or of individual employees at such branch offices, to effectively implement our strategy to local offices and to manage the growth of these local operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain policies and procedures that are rigorous enough or that we will be able to cause all of our employees or all of our branch offices to behave in conformity with those policies and procedures, or to ensure that our employees will not engage in conduct that could expose us to third-party liability or governmental sanctions, which may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Additionally, our business relies on our financial reporting and data systems (including our systems for billing users of our fee-based services), which have grown increasingly complex in the recent past due to acquisitions and the diversification and complexity of our business. Our ability to operate our business efficiently depends on these systems, and if we are unable to adapt to these changes, our business could be adversely affected. 42 Moreover, to keep pace with the rapidly developing and evolving Internet industry, we must explore new products, services or revenue models for our business. For example, in addition to using traditional advertising forms, we have begun to embed product placements in our in-house produced Web video series; for our auto business, we offer subscription services to automobile dealers in China; and for our real estate business, we sell paid memberships through which potential home buyers can purchase properties from our partner developers at discounts. Each of these new business areas is largely untested for us. We also have recently begun acting as an agent on behalf of third parties providing distribution and payment services for online lotteries. Currently, it is unclear if we need to obtain approval from the MOF with respect to our provision of online lottery sales on behalf of third parties. Moreover, we have also entered into a commission agreement to carry out the business of lottery sales via telephone with a lottery sales agency established by a department of the civil affairs administration. Pursuant to the Telephone Lottery Measures, such a lottery sales agency is required to obtain approval from the MOF to engage in the telephone lottery business and, as of the date of this annual report, it is unclear to us whether or not the lottery sales agency has obtained such approval. Therefore, it is possible that we are not qualified to sell lotteries online or via telephone, because implementation rules regarding online and telephone lottery sales that might clarify the requirements are pending. If we fail to obtain such authorization or approval if and when we are required to do so, we may have to discontinue providing such services or we could be subject to penalties. In addition, the Internet industry has seen a significant shift from traditional personal computers to mobile devices and accordingly we must develop new products and services that are adaptable to mobile devices so as to attract users and cause our existing users to remain with us. If we are unable to successfully adapt to new business models by developing and investing in new business strategies, products, services and technologies, our ability to maintain and expand our business in the future may be impeded. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content, technology or infrastructure providers, we may not be able to attract and retain users. We rely on third party providers for high-quality news, video, audio and text content in order to make our Websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend has increased our costs and operating expenses and has affected our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. During 2014, video content costs escalated sharply. If we are not able to purchase as much video content as we did in 2014, the size of our video library will be reduced and our attractiveness to users will be severely impaired and advertisers may choose not to advertise through our Websites, including our online video site. Except for exclusive content that we obtain from certain of our video content providers, much of the third party content provided to our Websites is also available from other sources or may be provided to other Internet companies. If other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our user traffic. Our business also depends significantly on relationships with leading technology and infrastructure providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. We depend on key personnel and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the services of our key executives, particularly Dr. Charles Zhang, who is the founder, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board, and a major shareholder of our company. We rely on his expertise in our business operations. For Sogou, we rely heavily on the services of Xiaochuan Wang, Sogous Chief Executive Officer. For Changyou, we rely heavily on the services of Carol Yu and Dewen Chen, Changyous Co-Chief Executive Officers. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as customers, suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. However, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings governed by PRC law may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded under the laws of other jurisdictions. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for our business. Given the competitive nature of the industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving Sohu is high and could have a disruptive impact on our operations. 43 Our growth may cause significant pressures upon our financial, operational, and administrative resources. Our financial, operational, and administrative resources may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our users and the needs of our customers change, the number of our users and volume of online advertising increase, requirements for maintaining sufficient servers to provide high-definition online video and to provide game players smooth online game experiences increase, requirements for search traffic and users requirements as to the quality of search services increase, and mobile activities increase, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: access financial resources; adapt our services and maintain and improve the quality of our services; protect our Website from hackers and unauthorized access; continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and maintain and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. For example, under the newly amended Patent Law of the PRC (promulgated by the NPC Standing Committee on December 27, 2008, and effective as of October 1, 2009), the State Councils Patent Administration Department may grant a compulsory license to individuals or entities to use our patent, once our exploitation of the patent has been determined to be violate the antitrust laws. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. For example, in 2014, we filed intellectual property-related lawsuits within Mainland China. We cannot be certain that judgments from the lawsuits will be issued in our favor, or that any resulting damages will cover our business losses and litigation expenses. If our campaigns and lawsuits against piracy do not achieve their intended effect, our business and operation may be adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely to us, materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that the products, services and intellectual property used in our normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business and have in the past been, and may in the future be, required to pay damages or to agree to restrict our activities. In particular, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay damages or fines, and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. We may incur substantial expense in defending against third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. In March 2008, we were sued by four major record companies, Sony BMG, Warner, Universal and Gold Label, which alleged that we had provided music search links and download services that violated copyrights they owned. Although the lawsuits were settled in 2013 without any payment of damages by us, we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future. In addition, it is possible that content on our Sohu News App, which not only includes content developed by us but also provides a platform for a significant amount of content generated by others, may violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, PRC governmental authorities have recently been drawing attention to issues regarding the infringement of online intellectual property rights. On June 12, 2014, the NCA, together with other PRC authorities, launched the Jian Wang Special Action, which enhances PRC governmental oversight of news, audiovisual, literary and online game Websites, and announces that these authorities will crack down on the unauthorized reprinting and dissemination of works that infringe the intellectual property rights of others and on the provision of search links, advertising access, information storage, server hosting and general Internet access to such works. 44 We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, claims based on the content and services we provide over all of our Websites. As our services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims for the online activities of our users and incur significant costs in our defense. In the past, claims based on the nature and content of information that was posted online by users have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. We do not carry any liability insurance against such risks. We could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through our Websites or through content and materials that our users may post in classifieds, message boards, micro blog, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through our services contains errors, third parties may make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information. We also offer Web-based e-mail and subscription services, which expose us to potential liabilities or claims resulting from: unsolicited e-mail; lost or misdirected messages; illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. Investigating and defending any such claims may be expensive, even if they do not result in liability. We may not have exclusive rights to trademarks, designs and technologies that are crucial to our business. We have applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of our key trademarks in the PRC, including Sohu.com logos, Sohu Fox logos, www.focus.com.cn, GoodFeel logos, Go2Map, Sogou logos, Sohu Focus, TLBB, ChangYou.com, cyou.com, TL logos, DMD, 7Road, DDTank, Wartune, Haishen, 17173 and the corresponding Chinese versions of the marks, so as to establish and protect our exclusive rights to these trademarks. We have also applied for patents relating to our business. While we have succeeded in registering the trademarks for most of these marks in the PRC under certain classes, the applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of some marks and/or of some of marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, and relevant authorities overseas. While we have succeeded in obtaining some patents, some of our patent applications are still under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of our initial trademark registration applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, or of our patent applications, are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant authorities overseas that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. We cannot assure that these applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect our rights to the affected marks, designs and technologies. In addition, even if these applications are approved, we cannot assure you that any registered trademark or issued patent will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of our rights. We may be subject to claims for invasion of personal privacy, which may force us to incur legal expenses and, if determined adversely to us, materially disrupt our business. We allow users to upload written materials, images, pictures and other content on our platform and download, share, link to audio, video and other content either on our platform or from other Websites through our platform. Procedures that we have designed to reduce the likelihood that content will be used without proper licenses or third-party consents may not be effective in preventing the unauthorized posting or sharing of content. We cannot be certain that content uploaded or shared by our users is legal and will not violate the privacy of others. In August 2014, the supreme peoples court promulgated the Provisions of the Supreme Peoples Court on Application of Laws to Cases Involving Civil Disputes over Infringement upon Personal Rights and Interests by Using Information Networks , which provide that if an ICP operator discloses genetic information, medical records, health examination data, criminal record, home address, private events and or other personal information of a natural person online, causing damage to the person, the Peoples Court should support a claim by the infringed party for recovery of damages from the infringing ICP operator. Defending invasion of privacy litigation is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and we may not obtain favorable outcomes in such cases. Such claims, even if they do not result in liability, may harm our reputation. 45 We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other epidemics or outbreaks. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2003. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza and of avian influenza in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of our offices and related business operations, such as server operations, upon which we rely. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of H1N1influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our portals and our games. For example, after the Sichuan earthquake in May 2008, we suspended our delivering of online advertisements and our MMOG operations during a three-day national mourning period. We do not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. We depend on brand advertising for a significant portion of our revenues, but the brand advertisement market includes many uncertainties, which could cause our brand advertising revenues to decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenues, and expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future, from the sale of advertising on our Websites. Brand advertising revenues represented approximately 33% and 31% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, sales to our five largest advertisers accounted for approximately 8% and 9%, respectively, of our total brand advertising revenues. The growth of our brand advertising revenues relies on increased revenue from the sale of advertising spaces on our Websites, which may be affected by many of the following risk factors: The brand advertising market is rapidly evolving in China. As a result, many of our current and potential advertising clients have limited experience using the Internet for advertising purposes and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising budget to Internet-based advertising; Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail our brand advertising services. For example, during the last several years, the PRC government enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients; Advertising clients may adopt new methods and strategies other than brand advertising to promote their brand and therefore our advertising revenue would be negatively affected; The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of brand advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines; and We may not have systems that are sufficiently well-developed to support the CPM pricing models, and as a result, we may suffer system bugs that cause bad user experiences errors or omission in publishing our clients advertisements, which could have a negative impact on our brand advertising business. In addition, our ability to generate and maintain significant brand advertising revenues will also depend upon: the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; the acceptance of brand advertisement as an effective way for business marketing by advertising clients; the effectiveness of our advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; the resistance pressure on brand advertising prices and limitations on inventory; and the establishment of a successful business model to make our new products adaptable to portable devices, which has required, and will continue to require us, to make significant expenditures for research, development, promotion and operations. 46 Many advertisers have shifted their PC online advertising budgets to advertising on mobile devices. Hence we must successfully optimize, adapt and make attractive our various product and service offerings for access on mobile devices and must effectively deliver advertising content in a manner that attracts and retains users interest and attention or our online advertising business will suffer. Our costs for brand advertising have increased significantly as a result of our investment in online video services. If we are unable to manage the growth of our online video business successfully and control its operating effectively, our business may be adversely affected. In 2007 we launched our video service, and its operation requires significant upfront capital expenditures as well as continuous, substantial investment in content, technology, infrastructure and brand promotion for both PCs and mobile devices. Although we have attempted to control our costs relating to content, bandwidth, marketing, and other items for online video services, our operating expenses, have increased significantly and may continue to escalate. Specifically, content costs has increased significantly recently, mainly due to intense competition from other vertical online video sites for leading, high-profile content. We will require additional financial, operational, strategic, technological, personnel and other resources in order to compete with vertical online video sites that have raised significant capital through initial public offerings and other financing activities, which may significantly strain our resources and negatively affect our operating results. We are increasingly required to pay license fees upfront for video content prior to its production. There often are delays of several months, or sometimes up to two or three years, between our payment of such up-front fees and the time when we are able to offer fully-developed content online and begin to receive advertising dollars. These delays have often placed, and can be expected to continue to place, significant strains on our cash flow. Our up-front payments also subject us to a certain level of credit risk, as content producers to which we make such payments may fall into financial difficulties and be unable to deliver the content we have purchased. We are also subjected to the risk that the quality of content will not be up to our expectations. In addition, when we purchase rights to the online versions of TV series, we generally rely on the expectation that the series will be broadcast on nationwide TV channels according to a specified schedule. If there are delays in such TV broadcasts, we will have to delay, perhaps indefinitely, our presentation of the online version of the series. We are also subject to the risk that TV content we purchase will be broadcast on less popular TV channels than expected, which will cause our online viewership to be correspondingly lower than we expected. Although Chinas online video industry has experienced substantial growth in recent years in terms of both users and content, we cannot assure you that the online video industry will continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the past, if at all. With the development of technology, new forms of media may emerge and render online video Websites less attractive to users. Growth of the online video industry is affected by numerous factors, such as users general online video experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and Internet-based services, regulatory changes in general, and regulations affecting copyright in particular, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our user traffic may decrease and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. We rely on advertising agencies to sell our brand advertising services. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that we pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect our gross margin. Most of our brand advertising services are distributed by advertising agencies. In 2014, for example, approximately 75% of our brand advertising revenues were derived from advertising agencies. In consideration for these agencies services, we are required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. During 2014, the biggest 10 advertising agencies in China contributed approximately 35% of our brand advertising revenue. These advertising agencies currently are seeking consolidation in the market. If the brand advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect our brand advertising growth. As an attempt to strengthen our bargaining power in the real estate market, beginning in 2012 we converted to direct sales of our advertising services instead of relying on agencies. We are not sure whether this change will be successful, and if it is not, we could lose our sale channels where we had previously relied on agencies. 47 The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking measures may result in a decrease of advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a users screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. In December, 2011, the MIIT issued Several Provisions for Standardizing the Market Order of Internet Information Services, or the Several Provisions, which stipulate that where advertisements or other information windows unrelated to the functions of terminal software pop up at user terminals, Internet information service providers must provide users with prominent, functional virtual buttons allowing them to close or exit such windows. The Several Provisions may make it easier for Internet information users to block Internet advertisements and therefore make it more likely that they will choose to do so. Furthermore, on September 24, 2014, the State Internet Information Office, together with the MIIT and the SAIC, held a symposium regarding strengthening the regulation of network pop-up advertisements. In the symposium, governmental officials introduced four requirements applicable to network pop-up advertisements, including that operators must (i) display in the advertisements title area the brand of the terminal software being used; (ii) disable terminal software that causes pop-up advertisements to operate automatically; (iii) ensure that terminal software can be shut down by a user with a single click; (iv) limit the number and restrict the positions of network pop-up advertisements. Since our advertising revenues are generally based on user views, the expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease our advertising revenues. As a result, such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on our Websites because of the expansion of Internet advertisement blocking measures. In addition, increasing numbers of browsers include technical barriers designed to prevent Internet information service providers such as us to trail the browsing history of the Internet users, which is also like to adversely affect the growth of online advertising. If video content we acquire or license fails to attract and retain users and advertisers, we may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic to allow us to maintain or increase our video revenues. The success of our online video business largely depends on our ability to generate sufficient user traffic, through provision of attractive products, to in turn attract advertisers to place advertisements on our video Websites. In order to attract and retain users, we have needed, and will continue to need, to expend significant resources to develop in-house or acquire from third parties high-quality video content. In 2014, we purchased significant amounts of exclusive video contents, through which we generated user traffic and revenues by bartering for other video content from other parties or distributing to other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to acquire exclusive content rights in the future and our user traffic and revenues generated from such exclusive content rights could be reduced. Moreover, if we fail to produce in-house or acquire from third parties high-quality video content, or if video content we produce in-house or acquire proves to be less attractive to users than we anticipated, our user traffic and our market share could be adversely effected, which could result in our being unable to maintain or increase our video revenues. Videos displayed on our Website may be found objectionable by PRC regulatory authorities, may subject us to penalties and other administrative actions, and may be subject us to liabilities for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or other allegations. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of videos over the Internet. In addition to professionally produced content, we allow our users to upload videos to our Website. Our users can upload all types of content, including user-created and professionally produced content, and can upload graphic files for limited purposes, such as updating user biographies. Although we have adopted internal procedures to monitor the content displayed on our Website, due to the significant amount of content uploaded by our users, we may not be able to identify all videos or other content that may violate relevant laws and regulations. Failure to identify and prevent illegal or inappropriate content from being displayed on our Website may subject us to liability. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our Website objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such content on our Website, with take-down orders or otherwise. The SAPPRFT publishes from time to time lists of content that it considers objectionable, and we must dedicate teams of employees to continually monitor user-uploaded content and remove content that is deemed objectionable. In addition, regulatory authorities may impose penalties on us based on content displayed on or linked to our Website in cases of significant violations, including a revocation of our operating licenses or a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. In the event that PRC regulatory authorities find the video content on our Website objectionable and impose penalties on us or take other administrative actions against us in the future, our business and reputation may be adversely affected. Moreover, the costs of compliance with these regulations may continue to increase as more content is uploaded by our users. 48 We have been involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement of third-party copyright and other rights, such as privacy and image rights, due to the videos displayed on our Website. See Risks Related to Our BusinessWe may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. While we have implemented internal procedures to review videos uploaded by our users and remove promptly from our Website any infringing videos after we receive infringement notifications from rights owners, due to the significant number of videos uploaded by users, we may not be able to identify all content that may infringe on third-party rights. Moreover, some rights owners may not send us a notice before bringing a lawsuit against us. Thus, our failure to identify unauthorized videos posted on our Website has subjected us to, and may in the future subject us to, claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or other rights. In addition, we may be subject to administrative actions brought by the National Copyright Administration of the PRC or its local branches for alleged copyright infringement. We may also face litigation or administrative actions for defamation, negligence, or other purported injuries resulting from videos we display on our Website. Such litigation and administrative actions, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming and may result in significant diversion of resources and management attention from our business operations. Furthermore, such litigation or administrative actions may adversely affect our brand image and reputation. Our search and Web Directory revenues may not sustain their growth or may decrease in the future. The growth of our search and Web directory revenue is subject to the following risks: As increasing numbers of users are using mobile devices to access the Internet, if we are unable to attract and retain mobile users to our products and services, we may fail to capture market share for mobile search; We may not be able to achieve greater market acceptance or gain additional market share from our existing competitors or new competitors; Many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as a marketing channel, and historically have not devoted a significant portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing and promotion. As a result, they may not consider the Internet to be an effective channel to promote their products and services as compared to traditional print and broadcast media; Our success depends on providing products and services to attract users and enable users to have a high-quality Internet experience. A loss of users could weaken our brand and result in a loss of advertisers, which would have a material adverse effect on revenues; We may be unable to retain our existing advertisers or attract new advertisers; We rely heavily on our nationwide agency network of third-party agencies for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our advertisers. We cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with those agencies; and We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. If Sogous collaboration with Tencent is terminated or curtailed, Sogous business would likely to be adversely affected. A substantial amount of our search and Web directory traffic is generated from users of Tencent products and services, and Sogou relies on Tencent for the promotion of some Sogou products and services. In addition, Sogou collaborates with Tencent to provide differentiated products and services. For example, in 2014, Sogou launched a unique Weixin search function for both PCs and mobile devices that allows users to search the large amount of content that is published on Weixin accounts. If Sogous collaborative relationship with Tencent is terminated or curtailed, or if Tencent does not continue to deliver an adequate level of access to its platforms or adequately promote Sogou products and services, Sogou business would likely be adversely affected. If we fail to retain key agencies or attract additional agencies for sales to our search advertisers, our search business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our nationwide distribution network of third-party agencies for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our search (including pay-for-click services) advertisers. If our agencies do not provide quality services to our advertisers or otherwise breach their contracts with them, we may lose our advertisers. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our agencies, including our key agencies, and cannot assure that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. 49 We rely on our Website Alliance members for a significant portion of our search revenues. If we fail to retain existing Website Alliance members or attract additional members, our revenues and growth may be adversely affected. By posting pay-for-click links on their Websites, we share the revenues generated from clicks by users with our Website Alliance members. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the total revenues generated from Website Alliance accounted for approximately 16% of our total pay-for-click revenues. If our Website Alliance members decide to use a competitors or their own Internet search services, or if we fail to attract additional Websites to join our Website Alliance, our search revenues may decline. If we fail to detect significant fraudulent click-through, we could lose the confidence of our search advertisers and our search revenues could decline. Our search business is exposed to the risk of click-through fraud on our paid search results. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks paid search results for a reason other than to view the underlying content of search results. If we fail to detect significant fraudulent clicks or otherwise are unable to prevent significant fraudulent activity, the affected search advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our pay-for-click services and lose confidence in the integrity of our pay-for-click service systems, and we may have to issue refunds to our advertisers. If this happens, we may be unable to retain existing advertisers and attract new advertisers for our pay-for-click services, and our search revenues could decline. In addition, affected advertisers may also file legal actions against us claiming that we have over-charged or failed to refund them. Any such claims or similar claims, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and costly for us to defend against and could also adversely affect our search brand and our search advertisers confidence in the integrity of our pay-for-click service systems. Our revenues from mobile services have decreased in prior periods and are expected to grow only minimally, or to decrease, in the future. Our revenues derived from mobile-related services and mobile products offered in cooperation with China mobile network operators to mobile phone users and to China mobile network operators have decreased in prior periods, and represent a small portion of our total revenues. We expect mobile revenues to grow only minimally, or to decrease, in the future. Risks Related to Chinas Telecommunications Infrastructure The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our growth will depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. We depend on China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom for telecommunications services, and any interruption in these services may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure and China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. We have signed Bandwidth Provision and Server Hosting Agreements with China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom. Under these agreements, we established six main service provision centers to support most of our core services in Beijing. However, as there are limited telecommunication infrastructure service providers, we may not be able to lease additional bandwidth on acceptable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If we are not able to lease additional bandwidth, the development of our business can be affected. To the extent we are unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As Web page volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our user base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Even if we scale our systems proportionately, any unforeseen increase in traffic may disrupt our operations and make it difficult for our users to visit our Websites, or even cause users to be unable to access our Websites at all, which could result in a loss of users. 50 Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced user traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our Website operations are dependent upon Web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other Website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Our users have in the past experienced difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and services. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. For example, on February 14, 2009, our blog services were disconnected because of a power loss affecting China Unicom. Although such disconnection did not have any material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure that our business would not be affected negatively by any future similar events. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems and do not maintain any backup servers outside of China. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently hosted in a single location within the premises of BTA. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Websites to mirror our online resources. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation that may occur. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable, and third-party online payment platforms that we partner with may be susceptible to security breaches, which may damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. Internet use can decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. Hacking involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Website against hackers, and measures we may take may not be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as damage our reputation and decrease our user traffic. Furthermore, we could be liable for security breaches of our users confidential information, such as credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, stored by the third-party online payment platforms that we partner with. Since our revenues are derived in part from such payment platforms, any security breach resulting from Internet payment transactions could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our online services. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Our interests in our two primary controlled subsidiaries could be significant diluted Our percentage and economic interests in our two primary controlled subsidiaries, Sogou and Changyou, could be diluted by the implementation and operation of existing or future equity incentive plans or any equity issued by them as consideration for acquisitions. In addition, our interest in Sogou could be reduced if Sogou exercises its option to purchase a portion of our Series A Preferred Shares in Sogou. The occurrence of any of these dilutive events would cause our share of the revenues and earnings of the affected subsidiaries to be reduced. 51 In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have an actual ownership interest. If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. Various regulations in the PRC restrict or prohibit WFOEs from operating in specified industries such as Internet information, online game, mobile, Internet access, and certain other industries. We are a Delaware corporation, and Sohu Hong Kong, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era and Sohu Media; Sogou HK, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sogou Technology; Vast Creation, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Sogou Network; Video HK, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and the parent company of Video Tianjin; and Changyou HK, our indirect subsidiary and the parent company of AmazGame, Gamespace, Beijing Baina Technology and Changyou HK Webgames, our indirect majority-owned subsidiary and the ultimate, indirect parent company of 7Road Technology, are foreign persons under PRC law. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we conduct our Internet and value-added telecommunication operations in the PRC through our VIEs that are incorporated in the PRC and owned by certain of our employees. Through a series of contractual arrangements, our VIEs, for which Sohu is their primary beneficiary, are effectively controlled by our indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned PRC Subsidiaries. The MIIT issued a circular in 2006 that emphasizes restrictions on foreign investment in value-added telecommunications businesses. In addition, a notice issued in 2009 by the SAPPRFT, the National Copyright Administration, and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications states that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China or to exercise control over or participate in the operation of such businesses through indirect means. While we are not aware of any internet company which uses the same or similar contractual arrangements as we do having been penalized or ordered to terminate operations by PRC authorities claiming that the arrangements constituted foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services or a kind of control over or participation in the operation of online game operating businesses through indirect means, it is unclear whether and how the various regulations of the PRC authorities might be interpreted or implemented in the future. For a detailed discussion of PRC regulations, notices and circulars with respect to such restrictions, see Specific Regulations Regulation of Foreign Direct Investment in Value-Added Telecommunications Companies and Specific Regulations Regulation of the Online Game Services Online Games and Cultural Products. Further, on January 19, 2015, MOFCOM, released on its Website for public comment a proposed PRC law, the Draft FIE Law, that appears to include VIEs within the scope of entities that could be considered to be foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, that would be subject to restrictions under existing PRC law on foreign investment in certain categories of industry. Specifically, the Draft FIE Law introduces the concept of actual control for determining whether an entity is considered to be an FIE. In addition to control through direct or indirect ownership or equity, the Draft FIE Law includes control through contractual arrangements within the definition of actual control. If the Draft FIE Law is passed by the Peoples Congress of the PRC and goes into effect in its current form, these provisions regarding control through contractual arrangements could be construed to reach our VIE arrangements, and as a result our VIEs could become explicitly subject to the current restrictions on foreign investment in certain categories of industry. The Draft FIE Law includes provisions that would exempt from the definition of foreign invested enterprises entities where the ultimate controlling shareholders are either entities organized under PRC law or individuals who are PRC citizens. The Draft FIE Law is silent as to what type of enforcement action might be taken against existing VIEs, such as ours, that operate in restricted or prohibited industries and are not controlled by entities organized under PRC law or individuals who are PRC citizens. If the restrictions and prohibitions on foreign invested enterprises included in the Draft FIE Law are enacted and enforced in their current form, our ability to use our VIE arrangements and our ability to conduct business through them could be severely limited. In addition, pursuant to Circular 6 and the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having national defense and security concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire de facto control of domestic enterprises with national security concerns and prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. These national security review-related regulations are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, and PRC authorities may interpret these regulations to mean that the transactions implementing our VIE structures should have been submitted for review. For a discussion of these PRC national security review requirements, see Specific Regulations Miscellaneous Regulation of M&A and Overseas Listings If we were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC law or regulations relating to foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications businesses, including the Draft FIE Law if it becomes effective, and security reviews of foreign investments in such businesses, including online games businesses, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the operation of our business would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking the business or operating licenses of PRC subsidiaries and/or VIEs, requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations, requiring us to discontinue or divest ourselves of all or any portion of our operations or assets, restricting our right to collect revenues, blocking our Websites, or imposing additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if changes were required to be made to our ownership structure, our ability to consolidate our VIEs could be adversely affected. 52 We may be unable to collect long-term loans to officers and employees or exercise management influence associated with High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace. As of December 31, 2014, Sohu had outstanding long-term loans of $16.0 million to Dr. Charles Zhang and certain other employees. These long-term loans were used to finance investments in our VIEs High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace, which are used to facilitate our participation in telecommunications, Internet content, online games and certain other businesses in China where foreign ownership is either prohibited or restricted. The loan agreements contain provisions that, subject to PRC laws, (i) the loans can only be repaid to us by transferring the shares of High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace to us; (ii) the shares of High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace cannot be transferred by the borrowers without our approval; and (iii) we have the right to appoint all directors and senior management personnel of High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace. Under the loan agreements the borrowers have pledged all of their shares in High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace collateral for the loans, and the loans bear no interest and are due on the earlier of a demand or such time as Dr. Charles Zhang or one of the other employee borrowers, as the case may be, is not an employee of Sohu. Sohu does not intend to request repayment of the loans as long as PRC regulations prohibit it from directly investing in businesses engaged in by the VIEs. Because these loans can only be repaid by the borrowers transferring the shares of the various entities, our ability to ultimately realize the effective return of the amounts advanced under these loans will depend on the profitability of High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace and is therefore uncertain. Furthermore, because of uncertainties associated with PRC law, ultimate enforcement of the loan agreements is uncertain. Accordingly, we may never be able to collect these loans and we may not be able to continue to exercise influence over High Century, Heng Da Yi Tong, Tianjin Jinhu, Sogou Information, Gamease and Guanyou Gamespace. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our VIEs for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our Internet operations mainly in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning Internet content, telecommunication, online games operations and certain other operations in the PRC, we are dependent on our VIEs in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements among the parties and to hold some of our assets, including some of the domain names and trademarks relating to our business. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content, telecommunications operations, online games operations and certain other as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, if we had direct ownership of our VIEs, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in their boards of directors, which in turn could effect changes at the management level. Due to our VIE structure, we have to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of our VIEs, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the VIEs or their shareholders, such as their failing to use the domain names and trademarks held by them, or failing to maintain our Websites, in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. In addition, as each of our VIEs is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. In addition, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content development contracts with potential content suppliers or failing to maintain the necessary permits for the content servers. Furthermore, if the shareholders of any of our VIEs were involved in proceedings that had an adverse impact on their shareholder interests in such VIE or on our ability to enforce relevant contracts related to the VIE structure, our business would be adversely affected. The shareholders of the VIEs may breach, or cause the VIEs to breach, the VIE contracts for a number of reasons. For example, their interests as shareholders of the VIEs and the interests of our subsidiaries may conflict and we may fail to resolve such conflicts; the shareholders may believe that breaching the contracts will lead to greater economic benefit for them; or the shareholders may otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to happen, we might have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce our contractual rights. In addition, disputes may arise among the shareholders of any of our VIEs with respect to their ownership of such VIE, which could lead them to breach their agreements with us. Such arbitral and legal proceedings and disputes may cost us substantial financial and other resources, and result in disruption of our business, and the outcome might not be in our favor. For example, a PRC court or arbitration panel could conclude that our VIE contracts violate PRC law or are otherwise unenforceable. If the contractual arrangements with any of our VIEs were found by PRC authorities with appropriate jurisdiction to be unenforceable, we could lose control over the assets owned by such VIE and lose our ability to consolidate such VIEs results of operations, assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements and/or to transfer the revenues of such VIE to our corresponding PRC subsidiary. 53 A failure by our VIEs or their shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC, they would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. We would have to rely for enforcement on legal remedies under PRC law, including specific performance, injunctive relief or damages, which might not be effective. For example, if we sought to enforce the equity interest purchase right agreements for the transfer of equity interests in any of our VIEs, if the transferee was a foreign company the transfer would be subject to approval by PRC governmental authorities such as the MIIT and the MOFCOM, and the transferee would be required to comply with various requirements, including qualification and maximum foreign shareholding percentage requirements. As these PRC governmental authorities have wide discretion in granting such approvals, we could fail to obtain such approval. In addition, our VIE contracts might not be enforceable in China if PRC governmental authorities, courts or arbitral tribunals took the view that such contracts contravened PRC law or were otherwise not enforceable for public policy reasons. Furthermore, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could further limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we were unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we would not be able to exert effective control over our VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business, and our financial condition and results of operations, would be severely adversely affected. The contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and our VIEs may result in adverse tax consequences. PRC laws and regulations emphasize the requirement of an arms length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. The laws and regulations also require enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation to demonstrate the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Related party arrangements and transactions may be subject to challenge or tax inspection by PRC tax authorities. Under a tax inspection, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements, our China-based subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to material adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by VIEs, which could adversely affect us by (i) increasing VIEs tax liabilities without reducing our subsidiaries tax liabilities, which could further result in interest and penalties being levied on us for unpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of our PRC companies to maintain preferential tax treatment and other financial incentives. In addition, if for any reason we needed to cause the transfer of any of the shareholders equity interest in any of our VIEs to a different nominee shareholder (such as if, for example, one of such shareholders was no longer employed by us), we might be required to pay individual income tax, on behalf of the transferring shareholder, on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by any of our VIEs that are important to the operation of our business if such VIE declares bankruptcy or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Each of our VIEs holds assets, such as our core intellectual property, licenses and permits, that are critical to our business operations. Although the equity interest purchase right agreements among our WFOEs, our VIEs and the shareholders of our VIEs contain terms that specifically obligate the shareholders of our VIEs to ensure the valid existence of our VIEs, in the event the shareholders breached these obligations and voluntarily liquidated our VIEs, or if any of our VIEs declared bankruptcy and all or part of its assets became subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we might be unable to continue some or all of our business operations. Furthermore, if any of our VIEs were to undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors might claim rights to some or all of such VIEs assets and their rights could be senior to our rights under the VIE contracts, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business. Frequent press reports in the United States questioning the VIE structure used by us and other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern among investors, and may cause such an effect in the future. In recent years various prominent Western news outlets have questioned the use by Chinese companies that are publicly-trade in the United States of VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including businesses we are engaged in such as Internet information and content, online advertising, online game, sponsored search, and value-added telecommunication services. Some of such news reports have also sought to draw a connection between recent widely reported accounting issues at certain Chinese companies and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing concern among investors in several Chinese companies, including us, that are publicly-traded in the United States. While we are not aware of any causal connection between the recently reported accounting scandals and the use of VIE structures, it is possible that investors in our common stock will believe that such a connection exists. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese companies such as ours and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. 54 Risks Related to Chinas Regulation Environment Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. Substantially all of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: structure; level of government involvement; level of development; level of capital reinvestment; growth rate; control of foreign exchange; and methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC government began to focus more attention on social issues in recent years and has promulgated or may promulgate additional laws or regulations in this area, which could affect our business in China. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, Sogou Network, AmazGame, Gamespace, 7Road Technology, and Beijing Baina Technology are WFOEs, which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly-owned by our indirect off-shore subsidiaries. Those WFOEs are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, all of our subsidiaries and VIEs are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. Such uncertainties may also make it easier for others to infringe our intellectual property without significant cost, and new entrants to the market may tend to use gray areas to compete with us. In addition, uncertainties in the PRC legal system may lead to penalties imposed on us because of a difference in interpretation of the applicable law between the relevant governmental authority and us. For example, under current tax laws and regulations, we are responsible for paying business tax on a Self-examination and Self-application basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of certain areas of preferential tax treatment, we may be found to be in violation of the tax laws and regulations based on the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the applicable tax rates, and therefore might be subject to penalties, including monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. 55 The enforcement of the PRC Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law in 2008, and amended it on December 28, 2012. The Labor Contract Law introduced specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, part-time employment, probationary periods, consultation with labor unions and employee assemblies, employment without a written contract, dismissal of employees, severance, and collective bargaining to enhance previous PRC labor laws. Under the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obligated to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract, with certain exceptions, must have an unlimited term, subject to certain exceptions. With certain exceptions, an employer must pay severance to an employee where a labor contract is terminated or expires. In addition, the PRC governmental authorities have continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations since the effectiveness of the Labor Contract Law. For example, there are regulations which require that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to employees and that employees be compensated for any unused annual leave days at a rate of three times their daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. Under the PRC Social Insurance Law and the Administrative Measures on Housing Fund , employees are required to participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and housing funds and employers are required, together with their employees or separately, to pay the social insurance premiums and housing funds for their employees. These laws designed to enhance labor protection tend to increase our labor costs. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these regulations are still evolving, its employment practices may not be at all times be deemed in compliance with the regulations. As a result, we could be subject to penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations. If we are found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, we could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online advertising, online game, and mobile services. Under the Measures for the Administration of the Transmission of Audiovisual Programs over Internet and other Information Networks issued by the SAPPRFT ( SAPPRFT Measures) , which came into effect on October 11, 2004, Websites authorized to disseminate news must apply to the SAPPRFT to obtain a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs in order to disseminate streaming video online. In addition, SAPPRFT issued the Catalogue of Classification of Internet Audio-Video Program Services (Trial) on April 1, 2010, pursuant to which the business of providing public program searching and watching services through the Internet to the public is classified as an Internet audio-video program service for which a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs is required. On May 31, 2008, Sohu Internet received a Permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs, issued by the SAPPRFT, and received a renewal on August 19, 2013. However, Sogou Information has not yet been granted such a license. If Sogous provision of video search services is later challenged by the SAPPRFT, we may be subject to severe penalties, including fines, or the suspension of our video search services or even our operations. In addition, Sohus online video businesses are operated under various Websites, such as sohu.com, Focus.cn and sogou.com, but current PRC laws and regulations are lack of clear provisions indicating whether it is permissible to provide video services over several Websites that are owned by a single company under one permit and the SAPPRFT might claim that such operation under one permit is not allowed under the SAPPRFT Measures. If the SAPPRFT were to make such a claim, we could face penalties from the SAPPRFT, such as fines, cancellation of our existing permit, or the forced discontinuation or restriction on our video services or even our operations. If we are ordered to suspend our services, our user traffic will be reduced and therefore our revenues will be negatively affected. 56 In addition, the MOC has issued several sets of regulations with respect to online music search services, including the Provisional Regulations for the Administration of Online Culture ( the Online Culture Regulations ) effective on July 1, 2003 and amended on July 1, 2004, the new Provisional Regulations for the Administration of Online Culture (the New Online Culture Regulations) effective on April 1, 2011, and the Notice on Strengthening and Improving the Content Censorship of Online Music Content (the MOC Notice) issued on September 3, 2009. The MOC has stipulated that the provision of online music search services constitutes disseminating music products via the Internet for which an Online Culture Permit is required. Sogou Information accordingly applied for and was granted such a permit in November, 2010 and was granted a renewal in March, 2014. In addition, the MOC requires that domestic music products be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. Due to the lack of relevant implementation rules, search companies, including Sogou, were unable to complete registration and approval procedures with the MOC. However, on January 7, 2011, March 17, 2011 and August 19, 2011, to further strengthen the supervision of online music search, the MOC separately issued the Notice to Clean Up Illegal Online Music Product, Notice to Clean Up the second batch of Illegal Online Music Product and Notice to Clean Up the third batch of Illegal Online Music Product (the New MOC Notices), which reiterated that domestic music products must be registered with the MOC within 30 days after being made available online, while imported music products must be approved by the MOC before being made available online. In addition, the New MOC Notices specifically mentioned that three batches of 300 imported songs that had never been approved by the MOC needed to be removed immediately and deleted from the search results of online music search service providers beginning February 28, 2011, April 30, 2011 and September 15, 2011. Compliance with the MOCs filing and registration requirements for online music products may increase our costs of operation for the search business. Moreover, the 300 songs specified in the New MOC Notices may not be the final list. We are not able to register all of the online music products that appear in our search results. Therefore, if the MOC were to claim that we are not in compliance with MOC rules and regulations, we could face penalties, including fines. In addition, our search results for online music products may be negatively affected, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our search business. We cannot assure you that we have fully complied with or will in the future always comply with the MOC rules and regulations regarding approval and filing procedures for online music products. Any such failure that caused restrictions on the availability of some music research results could reduce our user satisfaction, and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. Compliance with the requirements of the MOC rules and regulations could make it difficult for us to maintain our music search business at an economically acceptable cost, and could force us to change our search business model. Furthermore, it is possible that the MOC or another PRC governmental authority in China will promulgate new laws, rules or regulations further restricting online music search business in the future. Any such restrictions could result in higher costs for our search engine operation, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws, rules or regulations at any time. If current or future laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted to be inconsistent with our ownership structure and/or our business operations, our business could be severely impaired and we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations mandate complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to make acquisitions in China. PRC laws and regulations, such as the M&A Rules, which were jointly issued by six PRC regulatory agencies on August 8, 2006 and were amended on June 22, 2009, the Anti-Monopoly Law, Circular 6 and the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities in China by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise, or that the approval from the MOFCOM be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire affiliated domestic companies. PRC laws and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to a merger control security review. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective from September 1, 2011, further provide that, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review by the MOFCOM, the principle of substance over form should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements of offshore transaction. Factors that the MOFCOM considers in its review are whether (i) an important industry is involved, (ii) such transaction involves factors that have had or may have an impact on national economic security and (iii) such transaction will lead to a change in control of a domestic enterprise that holds a well-known PRC trademark or a time-honored PRC brand. If a business of any target company that we plan to acquire falls into the ambit of security review, we may not be able to successfully acquire such company. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulation to complete any such transaction could be time-consuming, and any required approval process, including approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business. 57 In addition, under the PRC AML, which took effect in 2008, an antitrust notification must be filed with the MOFCOM prior to the closing of a business combination that reaches certain notification thresholds. Although we believe that the Sogou-Tencent Transactions were not subject to the AML and we were not required to file an antitrust notification with respect to them, it is possible that MOFCOM will consider the Sogou-Tencent Transactions to have constituted a joint venture that would require an antitrust notification under the AML. If the MOFCOM were to conclude that such a notification was required, and prevail in such conclusion, MOFCOM might instruct us to discontinue the Sogou-Tencent Transactions, and within a specified time limit, dispose of the shares or assets, transfer the business and adopt other necessary measures to return to the state prior to Sogou-Tencent Transactions, and impose a fine of up to RMB500,000 on us, which could disrupt Sogous operations and business. Even if we are in compliance with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, the PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate PRC law, including content that is obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. In addition, we may not publish certain news items, such as news relating to national security, without permission from the PRC government. Furthermore, the Ministry of Public Security has the authority to make any local Internet service provider block any Website maintained outside the PRC at its sole discretion. Even if we comply with PRC governmental regulations relating to licensing and foreign investment prohibitions, if the PRC government were to take any action to limit or prohibit the distribution of information through our network or to limit or regulate any current or future content or services available to users on our network, our business would be harmed. We are also subject to potential liabilities for content on our Websites that is deemed inappropriate and for any unlawful actions of our subscribers and other users of our systems under regulations promulgated by the MIIT, such potential liabilities including the imposition of fines or even the shutting down of the Website. Furthermore, we are required to delete content that clearly violates the laws of the PRC and report content that we suspect may violate PRC law. We may have difficulty determining the type of content that may result in liability for us and, if we are wrong, we may be prevented from operating our Websites. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC profit appropriation and PRC withholding tax. PRC legal restrictions permit payment of dividends by Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, Sogou Network, AmazGame, Gamespace, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, Sohu New Momentum, Sohu Era, Sohu Media, Video Tianjin, Sogou Technology, AmazGame, Gamespace, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology are also required to set aside 10% of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until these reserves equal 50% of the amount of registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law (the CIT Law) provides that a withholding tax at a rate of up to 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are non-resident enterprises, to the extent that such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. All of our foreign-invested enterprises have been subjected to withholding tax since January 1, 2008, generally at a 10% rate. Under the Arrangement Between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (China-HK Tax Arrangement), which became effective on January 1, 2007, the dividend withholding tax rate may be reduced to 5%, if a Hong Kong resident enterprise is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. On October 27, 2009, the SAT issued a Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (Circular 601), which provides guidance on determining whether an enterprise is a beneficial owner under Chinas tax treaties and tax arrangements. Circular 601 provides that, in order to be a beneficial owner, an entity generally must be engaged in substantive business activities and that a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits, will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and will not qualify for treaty benefits such as preferential dividend withholding tax rates. If any of our Hong Kong subsidiaries is, in the light of Circular 601, considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purpose of the China-HK Tax Arrangement, any dividends paid to it by any of our PRC Subsidiaries would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to the usual rate of 10%. Furthermore, to the extent that the VIEs have undistributed after-tax profits, we must pay tax on behalf of our employees who hold interests in the VIEs when the VIEs distribute dividends in the future. The current individual income tax rate is 20%. 58 The non-U.S. activities of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs may be subject to U.S. taxation Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation and is subject to income taxes in the United States. The majority of our subsidiaries and VIEs are based in China and are subject to income taxes in the PRC. These China-based subsidiaries and VIEs conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate most of our income in China. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), we do not provide for U.S. federal income taxes or tax benefits on the undistributed earnings or losses of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or consolidated VIEs because, for the foreseeable future, we do not have the intention to repatriate those undistributed earnings or losses to the U.S. However, our practice of not repatriating undistributed earnings to Sohu.com Inc. limits that amount of cash that would otherwise be available to us to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock from the market. In addition, certain activities conducted in the PRC may give rise to U.S. corporate income tax, even if there are no distributions to Sohu.com Inc. These taxes would be imposed on Sohu.com Inc. when its subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) generate income that is subject to Subpart F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or Subpart F. Passive income, such as rents, royalties, interest and dividends, is among the types of income subject to taxation under Subpart F. Any income taxable under Subpart F is taxable in the U.S. at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 35%. Subpart F income that is taxable to Sohu.com Inc., even if it is not distributed to Sohu.com, may also include income from intercompany transactions between Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries and Changyous non-U.S. subsidiaries, or where Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries make an investment in U.S. property, within the meaning of Subpart F, such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. In prior years, Sohu.com Inc. has not been required to treat dividends received by its Cayman Islands subsidiary, Sohu.com Limited, from Changyou as Subpart F income, which would be includible in Sohu.com Inc.s taxable income in the U.S., by relying on what is commonly referred to as the CFC look-through rule. Under this rule, distributions from a lower-tier CFC to a higher-tier CFC are generally not Subpart F income if the activities that gave rise to the distribution arose from an active business. The CFC look-through rule is a temporary provision of the U.S. tax code that has been extended several times by the U.S. Congress. The provision is currently scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014. Unless further extended, the CFC look-through rule will be available for Sohu.com Inc.s and Changyou.com Limiteds non-U.S. subsidiaries only through their taxable years ending November 30, 2015.Sohu.com Inc. would also be subject to U.S. corporate income tax under Subpart F to the extent that Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiary sells Changyou ADSs at a price higher than the adjusted tax basis of such ADSs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any such resulting U.S. corporate income tax imposed on Sohu.com Inc. would reduce our consolidated net income. Our offshore entities may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by the China-based subsidiaries of Sohu.com Limited, Sogou and Changyou, our wholly-owned, controlled and majority-owned subsidiaries, to fund any cash requirements those offshore entities may have. Our offshore entities may not be able to obtain cash from distributions because our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions imposed by PRC law, and may be subject to future debt covenant restrictions, on paying such dividends or making other payments. Sohu.com Inc. is a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities through our intermediate holding companies, our wholly-owned, controlled and majority-owned subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs. Our offshore entities may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by China-based subsidiaries of Sohu.com Limited, Sogou and Changyou for the cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by Sohu.com Inc. or our other offshore entities. The primary source of any dividend payments to our offshore entities would need to be our subsidiaries in China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various service agreements and other arrangements. It is possible that our China-based subsidiaries will not continue to receive payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs that such payments will become subject to restrictions imposed PRC law. If our subsidiaries and VIEs incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us through the intermediate companies. In addition, amounts available for dividends are further reduced because transfers of funds out of Mainland China generally are subject to a withholding tax of 5%, if transfers are made to Hong Kong and subject to Mainland China Hong Kong tax treaty, and of 10% in other cases, and any further transfers to Sohu.com Inc. in the U.S. would generally be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35%. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively fund any cash requirements we may have. 59 Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, provision of online or mobile music, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. For instance, the MOC issued Several Opinions of Development and Supervision of Online Music in November 2006. In accordance with the requirements of the MOC, we submitted most of the online music which we distributed in the PRC online or through mobile to the MOC for censoring and recording in March 2007. We may be required to be responsible for supervising nonprofit users distribution of online music on our portal. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be fined. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulations in the future. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect and, as a result, we may be subject to severe penalties as discussed above. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party takes the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MIIT has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MIIT may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases a Website operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Public Security also has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action or exercise its authority to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. We may be subject to the PRC governments ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The Chinese government has stringent prohibitions on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography recently. On December 4, 2009, the MIIT and other three PRC government authorities jointly issued the Incentives Measures for Report of Pornographic, Obscene and Vulgar Messages on Internet and Mobile Media (the Anti-Pornography Notice) to further crackdown on online pornography. Pursuant to this Anti-Pornography Notice, rewards of up to RMB10, 000 will be provided to Internet users who report Websites that feature pornography, and a committee has been established to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. On April 13, 2014, the National Working Group on Anti-Pornography and three other PRC government authorities jointly issued the Anti-Pornography Proclamation, under which Internet service providers must immediately remove texts, images, video, advertisements and other information that contain pornographic content. The relevant government authority may order enterprises or individuals who flagrantly produce or disseminate pornographic content to stop conducting business, and may revoke relevant administrative permits. We have deleted from our relevant channels and communities all Web pages with material that we believe could reasonably be considered to be vulgar. In addition, we have strengthened our internal censorship and supervision of links and content uploaded by users. We have not, to date, received any penalty from the PRC government in this regard. However, there is no assurance that content considered vulgar by PRC government agencies will not appear in the future. In the event that we are accused by the government of hosting vulgar content, our reputation could be adversely affected. 60 Regulations requiring real-name-registration of micro-blog services in China may adversely affect our business. On December 16, 2011, the Beijing Municipal News Office, together with the Beijing Municipal Public Security Bureau, the Beijing Municipal Communications Administration and the Beijing Municipal Internet Information Office, jointly issued the Micro-blog Measures. The Micro-blog Measures stipulate that all micro-blog operators in Beijing must require their users to register with real names and that all micro-blog operators must complete procedures required by the Internet information content regulatory authority of Beijing for the operation of micro-blog services. Pursuant to the Micro-blog Measures, all micro-blog operators must complete procedures required by the Internet information content regulatory authority of Beijing for the operation of micro-blog services and obtain real name registration of their users within three months after the effective date of the Micro-blog Measures. Furthermore, at its press conference held on January 13, 2015, the State Internet Information Office announced that it will emphasize compliance with the Internet real-name requirements, including, among others, the real-name-registration of micro-blogs and post bars. If the Beijing municipal government, State Internet Information Office or other PRC government authorities were to take actions to tighten requirement regarding real name registration of micro-blog users, we might not be able to retain active users of our micro-blog or attract new users to our micro-blog, which could have adverse impact on the stickiness of our micro-blog and thus adversely affect our business operations. We may also face more stringent oversight if any new laws or regulations are promulgated on this subject. Regulations relating to the online transmission of foreign films and TV dramas may adversely affect our online video business. On September 2, 2014, the SAPPRFT issued a Notice on Further Strengthening the Administration of Online Foreign Audiovisual Content (the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice), which requires that operators of audiovisual Websites obtain from the SAPPRFT a Film Public Screening Permit, TV Drama Distribution Permit, or TV Animation Distribution Permit for all foreign films and TV dramas before they are transmitted via the Internet in China. The September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice further stipulates that before any foreign films or TV dramas for transmission exclusively via the Internet are purchased after the promulgation of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice, operators of audiovisual Websites must declare their annual purchasing plans with the SAPPRFT before the end of the year preceding the year of the intended broadcast and obtain the SAPPRFTs approval. The September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice also states that the number of foreign films and TV dramas to be purchased by an operator and transmitted via its Website in a single year may not exceed 30% of the total amount of the Chinese films and TV dramas purchased and transmitted by the same Website in the previous year. We rely heavily on foreign films and TV dramas to attract users and advertisers to our online video website and, accordingly, the promulgation of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice could have an adverse impact on our online video business. The requirement of a minimum ratio of domestic video content to foreign-sourced content in the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice may require us to purchase more domestic video content in order to maintain our existing position and reputation as one of the leading providers of online foreign films and TV dramas in China. In addition, as our competing operators in China will also be required to maintain such a minimum ratio, the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice is also likely to have the effect of driving up the price for Chinese films and TV dramas, which would cause our expenses for video content to increase, as we will be required to both increase the amount of domestic content that we purchase and pay higher prices for the domestic content that we purchase. If, on the other hand, we respond to the minimum ratio requirement of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice by reducing our purchases of foreign films and TV dramas, our attraction to users, traffic or advertisers on our online video website could be reduced, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In July 2014, SAFE promulgated Circular 37, which replaced Circular 75, promulgated by SAFE in October 2005. Circular 37 requires PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with the local SAFE branch in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, referred to in Circular 37 as a special purpose vehicle, for the purpose of holding domestic or offshore assets or interests. PRC residents must also file amendments to their registrations in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. Under these regulations, PRC residents failure to comply with specified registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity, including restrictions on the ability to contribute additional capital to the PRC entity. It is unclear how these regulations will be interpreted and implemented as Circular 37 is newly issued and it is possible that some or all of our and Changyous shareholders who are PRC residents will not comply with all the requirements required by Circular 37 or related rules. Any future failure by any of our, or Changyous shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us and Changyou to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in these subsidiaries. 61 We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee share options. Under the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control issued by the PBOC and the related Implementation Rules issued by the SAFE, all foreign exchange transactions involving an employee share incentive plan, share option plan or similar plan participated in by PRC citizens may be conducted only with the approval of the SAFE. Under the Notice of Issues Related to the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company (Offshore Share Incentives Rule), issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, PRC citizens who are granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and comply with a series of other requirements. The Offshore Share Incentives Rule also provides procedures for registration of incentive plans, the opening and use of special accounts for the purpose of participation in incentive plans, and the remittance of funds for exercising options and gains realized from such exercises and sales of such options or the underlying shares, both outside and inside the PRC. We, and any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who have been granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares, are subject to the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control , the related Implementation Rules, and the Offshore Share Incentives Rule. Circular 37 was the first regulation to regulate the foreign exchange registration of a non-listed special purpose vehicles equity incentives granted to PRC residents, there remains uncertainty with respect to its implementation. If we, or any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who receive or hold options, restricted share units or restricted shares in us or any of our subsidiaries, fail to comply with these registration and other procedural requirements, we may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our Board of Directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If the status of certain of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs as High and New Technology Enterprises, Key National Software Enterprises or Software Enterprises is revoked or expires, we may have to pay additional taxes or make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The CIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. High and New Technology Enterprises (HNTEs) will enjoy a favorable tax rate of 15% for three years, but need to re-apply after the end of the three-year period. Key National Software Enterprises can enjoy a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10% for two years, but need to re-apply after the end of the two-year period. Several of our PRC Subsidiaries and VIEs qualified as HNTEs and enjoyed reduced tax rates in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014 and one of our PRC Subsidiaries qualified as a Key National Software Enterprise in 2013 and 2014. In addition, the CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that Software Enterprises can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. A number of our PRC Subsidiaries qualified for exemptions or rate reductions in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014. There are uncertainties regarding future interpretation and implementation of the CIT Law and its implementing regulations. It is possible that the HNTE, Software Enterprise, and Key National Software Enterprise qualifications of our operating entities currently qualified as such, or their entitlement to an income tax exemption or refund of their VAT, will be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will be future implementing regulations that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the CIT Law. For example, according to a circular recently issued by the SAT, there will be new regulations promulgated by relevant authorities concerning new criteria to certify a Software Enterprise. Therefore, it is possible that the qualification of one or more of our PRC Subsidiaries or VIEs as a Software Enterprise will be challenged in the future or that such companies will not be able to take any further actions, such as re-application for Software Enterprise qualification, to enjoy such preferential tax treatments. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such income tax or VAT holidays, our effective income tax rate or VAT rate, as the case may be, will be increased significantly and we may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which would reduce our net income. 62 We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose de facto management bodies are located within China are considered resident enterprises and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law , de facto management body is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we were treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC Subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the CIT Law for PRC-resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and profits on the sale of our shares may be subject to tax under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law , PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are non-resident enterprises, not having an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which do have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any profits realized through the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such profits are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our share, or the profits you may realize from the transfer of our shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are non-resident enterprises, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is currently freely convertible under the current account, which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the capital account, which includes foreign direct investment. Currently, our China-Based Subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the SAFE. Our China-Based Subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in its current account (subject to a ceiling approved by the SAFE) to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of RMB, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from the SAFE. This could affect our China-Based Subsidiaries ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. 63 We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMBs daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMBs value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMBs exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. On April 16, 2012, the PBOC enlarged the floating band of RMBs trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.5% to 1% around the middle rate released by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System each day. In February 2014, the center point of the currencys official trading band hit 6.1146, representing appreciation of more than 11.7% since June 19, 2010. On March 17, 2014, the PBOC announced a policy to further expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market to 2%. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The initial public offering price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2014, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $42.03 per share to a high of $87.68 per share. On February 25, 2015, the closing price of our common stock was $51.66 per share. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Select Market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share options or other stock awards. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Dr. Charles Zhang beneficially owns approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. 64 Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the PCAOB) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our common stock are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firms audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. 65 If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SECs rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the ALJ presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SECs rules of practice by failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the ALJs initial decision to the SEC. The ALJs decision does not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. On February 6, 2015, the four China-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. If future document productions fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. While we cannot predict if the SEC will further review the four China-based accounting firms compliance with specified criteria or if the results of such a review would result in the SEC imposing penalties such as suspensions or restarting the administrative proceedings, if the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ or the termination of the registration of our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. Risks Related to Our Financing Activities Sogous status as a controlled, but less than wholly-owned, subsidiary of us could have an adverse effect on us. Given that Sogou is not a wholly-owned subsidiary of us, it is possible that our and Sogous interests could diverge in the future as we may need to consider the interests of other shareholders of Sogou. If Sogous interests differ from, or are contrary to, our interests, our business operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if our search business does not break even or achieve profitability and we are unable to raise additional capital, we could be forced to suspend the operation of our search business, and even if we were able to raise additional capital, our interest in Sogou would be further diluted. Moreover, since Sohu does not hold 100% of Sogou, certain transactions between Sohu and Sogou, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to up to 35% U.S. corporate income tax. In addition, certain transactions entered into by Sogou and its subsidiaries and VIEs, such as investing in U.S. properties, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that these will be treated as transactions subject to U.S. tax. If Sogou were to pay a dividend to its shareholders, we, as one of the shareholders of Sogou, could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at up to 35% on the portion of the dividend it received. Changyous status as a public company could have an adverse impact on Sohu. Changyous American depositary shares, or ADSs, are listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a separate publicly-listed company, Changyou may have interests that differ from, or may even be contrary to, those of Sohu, and we may have disagreements on certain matters. Our business might be adversely affected by any such disagreements. Changyous status as a publicly-listed company may have adverse U.S. tax consequences for us. As the Sohu Group has two listed companies, Sohu.com Inc. and Changyou.com Limited, which are regarded as separate legal entities for U.S. tax purposes, certain transactions between these two companies, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of 34%. Moreover, certain types of transactions by Changyou and its subsidiaries and VIEs investing in U.S. properties, for example might expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that the transactions will be subject to U.S. tax. If Changyou pays dividends, Sohu.com Inc., as one of the shareholders of Changyou, might be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35% for the dividends received. Under certain circumstances, when we sell Changyou ordinary shares originally held by us at a price higher than our U.S. tax basis, a portion of the proceeds will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate of up to 35%. 66 Risks Related to Changyou.com Limited Risks Relating to Changyous Business and Industry Overall Risks The markets for Changyous products and services are evolving rapidly and significantly, which makes evaluation on its business and prospects difficult. Changyous business and the industry in which it operates are evolving rapidly. Changyou was incorporated on August 6, 2007 in the Cayman Islands and began its online game business as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of us. In 2007 we transferred all of our MMOG business to Changyou, and in 2011 Changyou acquired a majority interest in 7Road and began generating Web game revenues. In 2012, Changyou began to develop and operate mobile games, but did not begin to generate any significant revenues from mobile games until late in 2014. In 2011, Changyou began to expand into the platform channel business with its acquisition of the 17173.com Website, which operates Changyous online advertising business, from us and acquired the entities operating Changyous cinema advertising business. In response to the rapid migration of users of Internet services from PCs to mobile devices, such as mobile phones and tablets, in November 2013, Changyou acquired Beijing Doyo Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Doyo, which primarily engages in the game information business; in December 2013, Changyou acquired RaidCall, which operates free social communication software; in March 2014, Changyou set up the wan.com Website, which offers to game players Web games of third-party developers; and in July 2014 Changyou acquired a majority interest in MoboTap, which operates the Dolphin Browser. Changyous past successes in its online games business with MMOGs and Web games may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate its current business and prospects. Changyous mobile games and platform channel business strategies have not been proven, and present very different challenges from those presented in the past by its operation of MMOGs and Web games. We cannot be certain that Changyou will be successful in its efforts to expand into mobile games and to monetize its platform channel business beyond the 17173.com Website. For example, Changyous acquisition of RaidCall was not successful, as Changyou determined that expected synergies between RaidCall and Changyous online games business did not materialize. You should also consider additional risks and uncertainties that may be experienced by companies operating in a rapidly developing and evolving industry. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to Changyous ability to: develop, license or operate new MMOGs, mobile games and Web games that are appealing to game players and meet Changyous expected timetable for launches of new games; successfully adapt to evolving business models, industry trends and market environments by developing and investing in new business strategies, products, services and technologies, including new mobile games, as well as new software for mobile devices to complement Changyous online games and platform channel businesses; raise Changyous brand recognition and game player loyalty; develop mobile games, in particular, that are successful and that, if they are successful, have acceptably long lifespans and result in an acceptable level of profit for Changyou; see Changyous business will suffer if it is unable to develop successful games for mobile app stores or successfully monetize mobile games that Changyou develops or acquires ; arrange for its mobile games to be distributed through popular mobile app stores with commercial terms, including revenue-sharing arrangements, that are favorable enough to Changyou and allow it to achieve an acceptable level of profit from the games; integrate new technologies, businesses and personnel of acquired entities, and generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of such acquisitions; maintain or expand its marketing efforts to attract more game players to its games, to the game information portal of the 17173.com Website, and to the various Internet software products and software for mobile devices developed or acquired by Changyou, in a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive business environment, and generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of such marketing efforts; and maintain and strengthen the 17173.com Website and its leading position among game information portals in China, particularly in view of the rapid emergence of mobile games. If Changyou does not adapt its business to address these risks and uncertainties, its ability to continue its past success or to expand its business in the future is likely to be impeded. 67 Changyous business may not succeed in a highly competitive market. Competition in the online game market in China is becoming increasingly intense. There are a number of publicly-traded companies focusing on the MMOGs, mobile game and Web game markets in China with shares listed on NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange or the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, including Tencent Holdings Limited, NetEase.com, Inc., Shanda Games Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Kalends Inc., iDreamsky Technology Ltd., NetDragon Websoft Inc., Kingsoft Corporation Limited and YY Inc. In addition, there are many venture-backed private companies focusing on online game development, further intensifying the competition. Many of Changyous competitors aggressively hire talent for game development, and have been increasing spending on marketing for games, bidding for licenses of games, penetrating into the mobile and Web game markets, and releasing new software for mobile devices to attract a growing number of gamers that access Internet products and services through mobile devices. Increased competition in Changyous current and intended markets may make it difficult for Changyou to retain its existing employees and attract new employees, and to sustain its growth rate. Furthermore, Changyou also faces intense competition for cost-effective marketing resources for its games, such as game-related Websites, which could drive up its marketing costs and decrease the effectiveness of its marketing campaigns. The 17173.com Website, which derives revenue primarily from providing online advertising services to advertisers, faces intense competition for advertising business targeting online game players, which can be expected to increase significantly in the future. Changyou competes with other game information portals, such as duowan.com, operated by YY Inc., and game.qq.com, operated by Tencent Holdings Limited, and other Internet portals which have, or may over time be able to build, competitive advantages over Changyou in terms of: greater brand recognition among game players and advertising clients; larger user and customer bases; more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and substantially greater financial and technical resources. If Changyou is unable to sustain and enhance its brand recognition, provide quality products and services and meet other difficult technological and business challenges, then its users and advertising clients may become dissatisfied and move to a competitors portal for products and services, its user base may decrease and its ability to generate advertising revenues on its 17173.com Website may decline as a result. In order to compete effectively in the PRC, as well as in the worldwide market, Changyou must continue to invest in research and development, to enhance its technology and its existing games, advertising and other services, introduce new game products and services, including games other than MMOGs, mobile games and Web games in order for it to adapt to industry trends and shifting demands of game players and advertising clients and to remain competitive. If Changyous products and services are not responsive to the needs of its game players and advertisers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities, or are not effectively brought to market, or if its competitors are more successful than Changyou is in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining game players and advertisers, Changyou may not be able to recoup such expenditures and its business could be adversely affected. Changyous business could suffer if Changyou does not successfully manage any future growth. Changyou experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion through 2013 that placed, and will continue to place, strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. In addition, to accommodate any future growth, we anticipate that Changyou will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems, procedures and controls, improvement of its accounting and other internal management systems and security systems related to the foregoing, all of which require substantial management efforts and financial resources. Changyou will also need to continue to train, manage and motivate its workforce, and manage its relationships with its third-party operators, distributors and service providers and its game player base. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. Changyou may not be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its operations, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its business strategy. 68 Changyous revenues increased only slightly for 2014 compared to 2013 and Changyou suffered a net loss in 2014. Changyou may not be able to avoid future slowing of its revenue growth or future losses. Changyou revenues grew significantly in a relatively short period of time prior to 2014, but its revenue growth stalled in 2014. Primarily due to the commercial success of TLBB, its revenues grew from $623.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $737.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. However, its revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased only slightly to $755.3 million and its net income attributable to Changyou.com Limited decreased from $282.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $268.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and Changyou suffered a net loss attributable to Changyou.com Limited of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 and sustained operating losses for each quarter of 2014. Changyou is not likely to experience rates of revenue growth in the future similar to those that it experienced prior to 2014. Changyou also may experience declines in its revenues or net losses in the future due to a number of factors, including, among other things, the uncertain level of popularity of its future games, the need to expend greater amounts in order to develop or acquire new games, technologies, assets, and businesses, and uncertainty as to its ability to integrate such newly acquired games, technologies, assets and businesses. In particular, Changyou expects to experience significant increases in its costs and expenses as it expands its business into mobile games in order to adapt to industry trends and an evolving market environment. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of Changyous future financial and operating performance. Changyous previous and any future acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on its ability to manage its business and may also result in impairment charges. Changyou has made acquisitions of, and may potentially acquire in the future, technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to our business and/or enter into strategic alliances in order to leverage its position in the Chinese online game market and expand its business domestically and internationally. Such acquisitions or strategic alliances may expose Changyou to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technologies, businesses and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from its existing business, and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and strategic alliance process may have an adverse effect on Changyous ability to manage its business. In addition, acquired businesses may not perform to Changyous expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or key clients, and Changyous strategic focus may change. As a result, Changyou may not realize the benefits it anticipated. If Changyou fail to integrate acquired technologies, businesses and assets or realize the expected benefits, Changyou may not receive a return on its investment and its transaction costs for such acquisitions. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition or investment by Changyou will produce the intended benefits, which could adversely affect its business and operating results. Acquisitions could result in contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill and/or intangible assets, which could adversely affect Changyous results of operations. For example, December 2013, Changyou acquired RaidCall with the expectation of generating benefits from synergies with Changyous online game business. However, in 2014 Changyou recognized a $33.8 million impairment loss for goodwill and a $15.3 million impairment loss for acquired intangible assets related to RaidCall, as a result of Changyous managements assessment that the impairments existed based on its conclusion that RaidCall was unable to provide such expected synergies. Changyou is dependent upon its management and upon its key development and technical personnel; Changyous business may be severely disrupted if it loses the services of any of them. Changyous future success depends substantially on the services of its executive officers and its key development and technical personnel, such as its Co-Chief Executive Officer Carol Yu, its Co-Chief Executive Officer Dewen Chen, its Chief Operating Officer Xiaojian Hong, and its Chief Financial Officer Jasmine Zhou. If one or more of its executive officers or key development or technical personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, Changyou might not be able to replace them easily or at all. For example, Alex Ho resigned as its Chief Financial Officer effective on March 4, 2014 and Changyou had only acting Chief Financial Officers until Changyou appointed Ms. Zhou as its Chief Financial Officer on February 7, 2015. Tao Wang resigned as its Chief Executive Officer effective November 2, 2014 and Changyou appointed Ms. Yu and Mr. Chen as Co-Chief Executive Officers to replace Mr. Wang. Changyous business could be significantly disrupted if the transitions of Chief Financial Officer duties to Ms. Zhou and of Chief Executive Officer duties to Ms. Yu and Mr. Chen do not go smoothly. In addition, if any of Changyous executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, Changyou may lose know-how, key professionals, staff members and suppliers. These executive officers and key employees could develop and operate games or platforms that could compete with and take game players and users away from Changyous existing and future games and platforms. Although each of Changyous executive officers and key personnel have entered into an employment agreement with non-competition provisions, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. 69 Risk Related to Online Games There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which Changyou derives most of its revenues, is a relatively new and rapidly evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Changyous games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Changyous future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond Changyous control, including: whether recent declines in the use of personal computers in general, and for purposes of accessing online games in particular, continue or accelerate in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games; growth in users of mobile devices (such as smart phones and tablets), Internet and broadband and penetration in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games, and the rate of any such growth; whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; general economic conditions in China, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in Chinas economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2012 and during 2014; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games on console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; and changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that online games in general will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. In addition, the relative popularity of MMOGs and Web games can be expected to decline as users increasingly switch to mobile devices. A decline in the popularity of Changyous online games in general, and of the MMOGs and Web games that Changyou operates in particular, would adversely affect its business and prospects. For example, growth in the popularity of Changyous primary MMOG, TLBB, has stalled recently, and the popularity of Changyous two most successful Web games, Wartune and DDTank, has declined recently as they have reached a mature stage in their lifespans as games. Changyou currently depends on its MMOG TLBB for a majority of its revenues, and any decrease in the popularity of TLBB or interruption in its operation would adversely affect Changyous results of operations. In addition, revenues from Changyous two most significant Web games have been declining and are expected to continue to decline. Changyou currently relies on its MMOG TLBB for a majority of its revenues. Changyou launched TLBB in May 2007 and we cannot guarantee how long TLBB will continue to sustain its current level of popularity. To prolong TLBBs lifespan, Changyou needs to continually improve and update the game on a timely basis with new features that appeal to existing game players and attract new game players, and to market these new features. Despite Changyous efforts to improve TLBB, players of the game may nevertheless lose interest in it over time. See Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. Changyous Web games Wartune and DDTank had provided a significant portion of Changyous revenues in recent years, but revenues from these games have been declining and are expected to continue to decline. Changyou launched Wartune and DDTank in December 2011 and March 2009, respectively. Wartune and DDTank have both reached a mature phase and their popularity has been declining recently, and the rate of the decline in Changyous revenues from them may accelerate. If Changyou fails to improve and update TLBB or other games on a timely basis, or if its competitors introduce more popular games catering to its game player base, Changyous games can be expected to lose their popularity, which would cause its revenues to decrease. Furthermore, if there are any interruptions in TLBB or other games operations due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players may be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which could also cause significant decreases in Changyous revenues. 70 Changyous MMOGs and Web games are currently accessed primarily through personal computers. As mobile devices such as mobile phones, tablets and other devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the Internet, Changyou must acquire or develop increasing numbers of mobile games if it is to maintain or increase its revenues, and Changyou may not be successful in doing so. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and tablets, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets to access the Internet. We believe that, for its business to be successful, Changyou will need to develop versions of its existing games, its pipeline games and any future games that work well with such devices. The games that Changyou develops for such devices may not function as smoothly as its existing games, and may not be attractive to game players in other ways. In addition, manufacturers of such devices may establish restrictive conditions for developers of applications to be used on such devices, and as a result Changyous games may not work well, or at all, on such devices. As new devices are released or updated, Changyou may encounter problems in developing versions of its games for use on such devices and may need to devote significant resources to the development, support, and maintenance of games for such devices. Changyou invested during 2014, and we expect Changyou to need to continue to invest, significant amounts in the acquisition, development, promotion and operation of games for mobile devices. If Changyou is unable to successfully expand the types of devices on which its existing and future games are available, or if the versions of its games that it develops for such devices do not function well or are not attractive to users and game players, or if the mobile games that Changyou has launched, or expects to launch in the future, are not successful, Changyou may not be able to recoup its investments in the mobile market. Changyous business will suffer if it is unable to develop successful games for mobile devices or successfully monetize mobile games Changyou develops or acquires, and Changyous profits from any successful mobile games can be expected to be relatively lower than the profits it has enjoyed historically for MMOGs and Web games. Developing games for mobile devices is an important component of Changyous strategy. Changyou has devoted, and we expect Changyou to continue to devote, substantial resources to the development of its mobile games. We cannot guarantee that Changyou will be able to develop games that appeal to players. In addition, Changyou may encounter difficulty in integrating features on games developed for mobile devices that a sufficient number of players will pay for or otherwise sufficiently monetizing mobile games. Changyou may not be successful in its efforts to increase its monetization from mobile games. If Changyou is unable to implement successful monetization strategies for its mobile games, its ability to grow revenue and its financial performance will be negatively affected. Changyous ability to successfully develop games for mobile devices will depend on its ability to: expand the portfolio of mobile games that Changyou develops in-house and licenses from third-party developers; effectively develop new mobile games for multiple mobile operating systems and mobile devices; effectively cross-market mobile games to players of its current MMOGs, mobile games and Web games; anticipate and effectively respond to the growing number of players switching from Web games to mobile games, the changing mobile landscape and the interests of players; attract, retain and motivate talented game designers, product managers and engineers with experience in developing games for mobile devices; minimize launch delays and cost overruns on the development of new games; effectively monetize mobile games without degrading the social game experience for its players; develop games that provide for a compelling and optimal user experience through existing and developing third party technologies, including third party software and middleware utilized by its players; and acquire and successfully integrate high quality mobile game assets, personnel or companies. Further, even if Changyou develops or acquires license rights to a mobile game that is successful, the games lifespan may be short, as even successful mobile games tend to have less sustained user loyalty than do successful MMOGs and Web games. For example, the initial popularity of Changyous primary mobile game, TLBB 3D, which was launched in October 2014, may not be sustainable, so the games initial success should not be viewed as an indication that it will continue to be successful or to generate significant revenues. In view of the uncertain lifespans of mobile games, it is necessary for Changyou to invest considerable sums in order to have a number of mobile games in its pipeline. In addition, Changyou has invested in mobile game development studios in order to assure access to an extensive pipeline of mobile games. Changyou must make such investments without knowing whether the games it develops will be successful and generate sufficient revenues to enable Changyou to recoup its costs. 71 In addition, Changyous profits from our mobile games, even if the games are successful, are likely to be relatively lower than its profits generated from MMOGs and Web games, because, in order to gain access for our games on mobile app stores, Changyou must enter into revenue-sharing arrangements that result in lower profit margins compared with those of its MMOGs and Web games. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether Changyou will be succeed in developing successful mobile games, or that Changyou will succeed in making its mobile game operations profitable if it does successfully develop mobile games. If Changyou does not succeed in doing so, its business will suffer. There are risks associated with Changyous licensing of rights to use the titles, characters, themes and story lines of popular works or stories in order to adapt them for its online games. Changyou frequently obtains license rights to the titles, characters, themes and story lines of popular works in order to adapt online games from such works. It can be difficult to identify a sufficient number of popular works that are suitable for adaptation for use in online games, and Changyou faces significant competition for the rights to such works from other online game companies that also adapt their online games from popular Chinese works. In addition, obtaining license rights to suitable works can involve significant expenses, and if games that Changyou adapts from particular works are not popular and commercial successes, Changyou will be unable to recoup such expenses. Obtaining such rights and adapting such works for mobile games present additional risks, because of the possibly relatively short lifespans of mobile games. Changyou derives an increasing portion of its revenues from online games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with third party developers; any failure of third-party developers to fulfill their obligations under Changyous license or joint development agreements with them could have an adverse effect on Changyous operation of and revenues from those games, and Changyous revenue-sharing arrangements with those third-party developers reduce its revenues and profits from the operation of those games. Changyou derive an increasing portion of its revenues from MMOGs and mobile games that Changyou licenses from, or jointly develops with, third-party developers. Under its license and joint development agreements for these games, Changyou relies on the third-party developers to provide game updates, enhancements and new versions, provide materials and other assistance in promoting the games and resolving game programming errors and issues with bots and other intrusions. Any failure of third-party developers to provide game updates, enhancements and new versions in a timely manner and that are appealing to game players, and provide assistance that enables Changyou to effectively promote the games, could adversely affect the game-playing experience of Changyous game players, damage its reputation, or shorten the life-spans of those games, any of which could result in the loss of game players, acceleration of Changyous amortization of the license fees it has paid for those games, or a decrease in or elimination of its revenues from those games. In addition, Changyous revenue-sharing arrangements for games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with third-party developers provide Changyou with relatively less profit than games that Changyou develops in-house, and in some cases Changyou may not be able to recoup its investments in such games. Moreover, to secure the rights to games from third-party developers, Changyou often must pay up-front fees and also commit to pay additional fees in the future. Similarly, Changyou also has invested in mobile game development studios in order to assure access to an extensive pipeline of mobile games. Changyou often must make such commitments and investments without knowing whether the games Changyou is licensing or jointly developing will be successful and generate sufficient revenues to enable Changyou to recoup its costs or for the games to be profitable. Furthermore, for games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with third parties, Changyou may not have access to the game source codes during the initial period of the license, or at all. Without the source codes, Changyou has to rely on the licensors to provide updates and enhancements during the initial period, giving it less control over the quality and timeliness of updates and enhancements. If Changyou game players are not satisfied with the level of services they receive, they may choose to not play the games, leading to a decrease in Changyous revenues. Changyou relies on third-party operators to jointly operate most of its Web games with it. Changyou largely relies on third-party operators to attract users to play its Web games and for most of the marketing of such games. Operations through third-party operators account for a substantial majority of Changyous revenues from Web games. If third-party operators of Changyous games experience network disruptions, cease to offer its games over their platforms, fail to effectively promote Changyous games on their platforms or attract game players, or terminate Changyous joint operation agreements in advance of their expiration dates during any particular period, Changyous revenues for that period will be adversely affected and its reputation and /or the reputation of its subsidiaries that are engaged in game development could be harmed. 72 Changyou faces significant risks and incur additional costs when it licenses to, or jointly operates with, third-party operators its games outside of China. If Changyou fails to manage these risks, its growth and business prospects could be adversely affected. Changyou currently licenses, and expects to continue to, exclusively license to, or jointly operate with, third-party operators some of its games in regions and countries outside of Mainland China. Identifying appropriate overseas markets, negotiating with potential third-party operators and joint operators and managing Changyous relationships with the third-party operators and joint operators all require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of significant expenses. Licensing Changyous games and operating them overseas directly or jointly with third-party joint operators also require translation of Changyous games into the local languages of the overseas markets in which Changyou plans to license or jointly operate its games and may require customization as well, which require significant additional expense. There are additional risks associated with the licensing or direct or joint operation of Changyous games overseas, including: difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees or joint operators who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively operate Changyous games in, overseas markets; difficulties relating to compliance with the different legal requirements and commercial terms in the overseas markets in which Changyou licenses or directly or jointly operates its games, such as game export regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; difficulties in maintaining the reputation of Changyou and its games when Changyous games are operated by licensees or joint operators in overseas markets pursuant to their own standards; changes in the political, regulatory or economic conditions in a foreign country or region, or public policies toward online games; exposure to different regulatory systems governing the protection of intellectual property and the regulation of online games, the Internet and the export of technology; difficulties in protecting Changyous intellectual property; and difficulties in managing Changyous overseas employees when it operates its games directly overseas; Additional costs and monetary risks associated with the licensing or direct or joint operation of Changyous games overseas include: costs for compliance with different legal requirements and commercial terms in overseas markets; difficulties in verifying revenues generated from Changyous games by its licensees for purposes of determining royalties payable to Changyou; difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems; the risk that regulatory authorities in foreign countries or administrative regions may impose withholding taxes, or place restrictions on repatriation of Changyous profits; and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If Changyou is unable to manage these risks and control these costs effectively, is ability to license or operate its games overseas either directly or jointly with third-party joint operators may be impaired. Game players spending on Changyous games may be adversely affected by slower growth in the Chinese economy and adverse conditions in the global economy. Changyou relies on the spending of its game players for its revenues, which in turn depends on the players level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capabilities and willingness to spend. The real estate market in the PRC and the level of exports from the PRC have both experienced significant declines recently and, according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the growth rate of Chinas gross domestic product, compared to that of the previous year, slowed from 9.2% in 2011 to 7.5% in 2012 and 7.7% in 2013 and 7.4% in 2014. Such growth may also slow in the future, which could in turn result in a reduction in spending by Changyous game players. 73 In addition, the global economy has experienced significant instability and there has been continuing volatility in global financial and credit markets in recent years, with growth in the United States uncertain, and some analysts are concerned that the European Community may experience a sustained downturn. It is unclear how long such instability and volatility will continue, whether it will increase, whether it will lead to a renewed worldwide economic downturn such as the one that began in 2008, and how much adverse impact such instability and volatility or any such downturn might have on the economies of China and other jurisdictions where Changyou operates its games. Any such instability, volatility or adverse impact in China or in overseas markets could cause Changyous game players to reduce their spending on its games in China or overseas and reduce its revenues. Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. Changyou depends on purchases and continual consumption of virtual items by its game players to generate revenues, which in turn depend on the continued attractiveness of its games to the game players and their satisfactory game-playing experience. Various issues could arise that would cause its games to be less attractive to its game players or could limit the continued attractiveness of its games. For example: we may fail to provide game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements in a timely manner due to technologies, resources or other factors; Changyous game updates, expansion packs and new versions may contain program errors, and their installation may create other unforeseen issues that adversely affect the game-playing experience; Changyou may fail to timely respond and/or resolve complaints from its game players; Changyou may fail to eliminate computer bots which can disrupt its games smooth operation and reduce the attractiveness of its games; and Changyous game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements may change rules or other aspects of its games that its game players do not welcome, resulting in a reduction in the active accounts or active paying accounts of its MMOGs. Changyous failure to address the above-mentioned issues could adversely affect the game-playing experience of its game players, damage the reputation of its games, shorten the lifespans of its games, and result in the loss of game players and a decrease in its revenues. Undetected programming errors or defects in Changyous games could harm its reputation and adversely affect its results of operations. Changyous games are subject to frequent improvement and updates, and may contain bugs or flaws that may become apparent only after the updated applications are accessed by users, particularly as Changyou launches new updates under tight time constraints. From time to time, Changyous users may inform it of programming bugs affecting their experience, and Changyou is generally able to resolve such flaws promptly. However, if for any reason programming bugs or flaws are not resolved in a timely fashion, Changyou may lose some of its users and its revenues will be affected negatively, and its reputation and the market acceptance of its games may also be harmed. Changyou may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, and its new games may not be commercially successful. All online games have limited lifespans. Changyou must launch new games that can generate additional revenue and diversify its revenue sources in order to remain competitive. Changyou will not generate any meaningful revenue from a pipeline game until it is commercially launched after open beta testing, and we cannot assure you that Changyou will be able to meet its timetable for new game launches or that its new games will be successful. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, failure to obtain or delays in obtaining relevant governmental authorities approvals and adverse developments in Changyous relationships with the licensors or third-party operators of its new games could result in delayed launching of its new games. In addition, we cannot assure you that Changyous new games will be as well received in the market as TLBB has been, and you should not view Changyous historical game revenues or the success of TLBB as indications of the commercial success of any of its new or future games. Changyou may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, or fail to differentiate its new games from its existing games. If the new games Changyou introduces are not commercially successful, Changyou may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from new games to sustain or grow its results of operations or to recover its product development costs and sales and marketing expenses, which can be significant. 74 Changyous new games may attract game players away from its existing games Changyous new games may attract game players away from its existing games. For example, with its increasingly diversified game portfolio, we cannot assure you that Changyous TLBB game players will not be attracted to play other newly launched games, including its new mobile game TLBB 3D, instead of TLBB. If this occurs, it will decrease its existing games player bases, which could in turn make these games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. Game players who switch from playing Changyous existing games to its new games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in its new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing its existing games, resulting in an adverse effect on its overall revenues. In addition game players switching from playing Changyous existing MMOGs or Web games to its new mobile games could cause its online games income to be relatively lower, as its mobile games tend to enjoy relatively lower profits as a result of revenue-sharing arrangements. Changyou generates substantially all of its game revenues under the item-based revenue model, which presents risks related to consumer preferences and regulatory restrictions. Substantially all of Changyous games, including MMOGs, mobile games and Web games, are operated under the item-based revenue model. Under this revenue model, Changyous game players are able to play the games for free if they so choose, but are charged for the purchase of virtual items in the games. Changyou currently expects that substantially all of its game revenues, including revenues from games currently in its pipeline, will continue to be generated under the item-based revenue model. The item-based revenue model requires Changyou to design games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Changyou to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Changyou fails to design and price virtual items so as to incentivize game players to purchase them, Changyou may not be able to effectively translate its game player base and their playing time into revenues. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns with PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players. A revenue model that does not charge for time played may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with these goals. The item-based revenue model may not continue to be commercially successful and in the future Changyou may need to change its revenue model to a time-based or other revenue model. Any change in revenue model could result in disruption of Changyous game operations, a decrease in the number of its game players and a decline in its revenues. Changyou relies on recorded data for game revenue recognition and tracking of game players consumption patterns of virtual items. If its data systems fail to operate effectively, such failure will not only affect the completeness and accuracy of its revenue recognition, but also its ability to design and improve virtual items that appeal to game players. Changyous game operations revenues are generated through the sale of its prepaid game cards or online direct sale of game points, and its recognition of those revenues depends on such factors as whether the virtual items purchased by game players are considered consumable or perpetual and, in the case of its Web game joint operation arrangements with third-party joint operators, whether the games are hosted on its servers or the third parties servers. Changyou relies on its data systems to record and monitor the purchase and consumption of virtual items by its game players and the types of virtual items purchased. If its data systems fail to accurately record the purchase and consumption information of the virtual items, Changyou may not be able to accurately recognize its revenues. In addition, various factors affect the estimated lives of perpetual virtual items, such as the average period that game players typically play its games and other game player behavior patterns, the acceptance and popularity of expansion packs, promotional events launched and market conditions, and Changyou relies on its billing systems to capture such historical game player behavior patterns and other information. If such information is not accurately recorded, or if Changyou does not have sufficient information due to the short operating history of any of its games, Changyou will not be able to accurately estimate the lives of, or the estimated average period the game players play its games with respect to, the perpetual virtual items, which will also affect its ability to accurately recognize its revenues from such perpetual virtual items. If its data systems were damaged by system failure, network interruption, or virus infection, or attacked by a hacker, the integrity of data would be compromised, which could adversely affect its revenue recognition and the completeness and accuracy of its recognized revenues. In addition, Changyou relies on its data systems to record game player purchase and consumption patterns, based on which Changyou improves its existing virtual items and design new virtual items. For example, Changyou intends to increase development efforts on the number and variety of virtual items that its game players like to purchase, and Changyou may also adjust prices accordingly. If Changyous data systems fail to record data accurately, its ability to improve existing virtual items or design new virtual items that are appealing to its game players may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect its revenues. 75 Rapid technological changes may increase Changyous game development costs. The online game industry is evolving rapidly, so Changyou needs to anticipate new technologies and evaluate their possible market acceptance. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new standards that apply to game development. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for MMOG, mobile game or Web games development and operations, and Changyou will need to adapt its business to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. If Changyou falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received in the marketplace. The proliferation of cheating programs and scam offers that seek to exploit Changyous games and players harms the game-playing experience and may lead players to stop playing its games. Third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, cheating programs that enable players to exploit Changyous games, play the games in an automated way or obtain unfair advantages over other players who play fairly. These programs harm the experience of players who play fairly and may disrupt the economics of Changyous games. In addition, unrelated third parties may attempt to scam Changyous players with fake offers for virtual goods. Changyou needs to devote significant resources to discover, disable and prevent such programs and activities, and if Changyou is unable to do so quickly its operations may be disrupted, its reputation may be damaged and players may stop playing its games. This may lead to lost revenue and increased costs for Changyou to develop technological measures to combat such programs and activities. Changyou could be liable for breaches in the security of its online payment platforms and those of third parties with whom Changyou transacts business, and any such breaches could cause its customers to lose confidence in the integrity of the payment systems that Changyou use. Currently, Changyou sells a substantial portion of its virtual prepaid game cards and game points to its game players through third-party online payment platforms. In these online transactions, secure transmission of confidential information, such as customers credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential if Changyou is to maintain its consumers confidence in it. In addition, Changyou expects that an increasing amount of its sales will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, the risk of associated online crime will increase. Changyous current security measures and those of the third parties with whom Changyou transacts business may not be adequate. Changyou must be prepared to increase its security measures and efforts so that its game players have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that Changyou uses, which will require Changyou to incur additional expense. Such increased security measures may still not make Changyous online payment systems completely safe. In addition, Changyou does not have control over the security measures of its third-party online payment vendors. Breaches in the security of online payment systems that Changyou uses could expose Changyou to litigation and liability for failing to secure confidential customer information, and could harm its reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage customers to purchase virtual items. Changyous business may be harmed if its games are not featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafs in China A certain number of game players access Changyous games through Internet cafs in China. Due to limited hardware capacity, Internet cafs generally feature a limited number of games on their computers. Changyou thus competes with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that its games are featured on these computers. It is necessary for Changyou to maintain good relationships with Internet caf operators, to ensure that its games are featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafs. If Changyou fails to maintain good relationships with Internet caf operators, or if Changyou and /or its third-party operators fail to successfully persuade Internet cafs to feature its games, its revenues may be affected. Risks Related to the Platform Channel Business Changyou may not be able to successfully monetize its platform channel business beyond the operation of its 17173.com Website or to recoup its significant in investment in such business. During 2013 and 2014 Changyou made significant investments in acquiring assets and marketing, including both domestic and overseas marketing, and spent considerable sums to increase its staffing levels, with the goal of expanding and promoting its platform channel business beyond the operation of the 17173.com Website. Changyous acquisitions during that period included Doyo, RaidCall and MoboTap. However, Changyou has had only limited success to date in generating revenues from such additions to its platform channel business and it is not clear whether Changyous significant investments in expanding and marketing the platform channel business will provide any significant benefit. Changyous continuing efforts to monetize those products and services may not be successful, and Changyou may never be able to make its platform channel business apart from the 17173.com Website profitable, and it may not be able to recoup the investments it made in assets, marketing and staffing for the platform channel business. For example, after the acquisition of RaidCall, Changyous management concluded that RaidCall would not be able to provide expected synergies with Changyous online games business, and Changyou recognized substantial impairment charges as a result. 76 Online advertising revenues from the 17173.com Website could fail to grow or could decline as a result of uncertainties in the online advertising market. Changyous online advertising revenues of $59.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, which were mainly derived from the operation of the 17173.com Website, represented 7.8% of Changyous total revenues for the year. Changyous ability to maintain or grow online advertising revenues may be adversely affected by any of the following risk factors: Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail Changyous online advertising services; Advertising clients may adopt new methods and strategies other than online advertising to promote their brands, which would have an adverse impact on Changyous advertising revenues; and The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising have been widely accepted. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general, or through Changyous Websites. In addition, Changyous ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; the acceptance of online advertisements as an effective method of business marketing; the effectiveness of its advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; the extent of resistance from existing or potential customers to online advertising prices; and the development of new formats for online advertising, such as streaming video. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease in advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a users screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease Changyous revenues from the 17173.com Website because, when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from the server, which means that it will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on the 17173.com Website because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. Changyou relies on advertising agencies to sell online advertising services on the 17173.com Website. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the Chinese market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that Changyou pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect Changyous gross margin. Most of the online advertising services of the 17173.com Website are distributed by, and most of the online advertising revenues of the 17173.com Website are derived from, advertising agencies. For example, in 2014 Changyou engaged eight advertising agencies, which contributed approximately 90% of the online advertising revenues of the 17173.com Website. In consideration for these agencies services, Changyou is required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. If the online advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect Changyous online advertising growth, as Changyou books its online advertising revenue net of its sales rebates to advertising agencies. Risks of Others Business Changyou may not be able to maintain or expand the revenues that it receives from cinema advertising services. Changyous cinema advertising business generates revenues through contracts that Changyou enters into with advertisers to place their advertisements in pre-film advertising slots in movie theatres. Changyou acquires the cinema advertising rights for such pre-film advertising slots under long-term contracts, typically with threeyear terms, with various theatres and film production companies. If Changyou is unable to sell to advertisers all of the pre-film advertising slots that Changyou purchases, it may not be able to recoup its upfront payments and committed payments under the contracts. Further, we cannot assure you that Changyou will be able to develop, maintain or expand the types of cooperative relationships with movie theatres and film production companies that will permit Changyou to maintain its existing rights or to obtain any additional rights to pre-movie advertisement slots at reasonable prices. Any failure by Changyou to develop, maintain or expand such cooperative relationships could prevent it from increasing our cinema advertising revenues, could cause such revenues to decrease or could result in Changyous cinema advertising business generating losses. 77 General Business Risks Changyous prospects for growth may be adversely affected if it cannot successfully manage and make timely adjustments to its hiring needs to support its business strategies. The Internet industry in China is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, particularly for game developers and related technical personnel, and Changyous success in the implementation of its growth strategies depends on its ability to successfully manage, and make timely adjustments to, its hiring needs. The number of Changyous employees increased 35.3% between the end of 2012 and the end of 2013 as it expanded its business into mobile games, the platform channel business and international markets, but decreased 11.0% between the end of 2013 and the end of 2014, as Changyou emphasized the development of mobile games and laid off a number of employees who had been focused primarily on international markets and the platform channel business other than the 17173.com Website. These layoffs could have an adverse effect on Changyous remaining employees morale and their loyalty to Changyou, and cause it to lose employees whose talents and experience are important for its business, and could also have a negative impact on its reputation as an employer and its ability to attract qualified employees in the future. Laid-off employees could also make claims against Changyou for additional compensation, causing it to incur additional expense. Changyou may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to it, could subject it to significant liabilities and other costs. Changyous success depends largely on its ability to use and develop its technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against Changyou. Changyou is subject to additional risks if entities licensing to it intellectual property, including, for example, game source codes, do not have adequate rights in any such licensed materials. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property of game development and technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against it, Changyou will have to defend itself in litigation or administrative proceedings, which can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of its technical and management personnel. An adverse determination or settlement in any such litigation or proceedings to which Changyou may become a party could subject it to significant liability to third parties, or require it to seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, or redesign its games or subject it to injunctions prohibiting the development and operation of its games. In addition, in the case of its Web games, Changyous potential exposure to litigation alleging that its games infringe the intellectual property of others may extend to potential claims against the third-party joint operators of its games. Changyou typically agree in its agreements with joint operators to indemnify the joint operators against claims of infringement relating to Changyous games. As a result, Changyou may have to defend its joint operators with respect to any allegations against them with respect to infringement by its games, which could be both costly and time consuming. Changyou may need to incur significant expenses to enforce its proprietary rights, and if it is unable to protect such rights, its competitive position and financial performance could be harmed. Changyou regard its intellectual property and proprietary rights as critical to its success. In particular, Changyou has spent a significant amount of time and resources in developing its current games and its pipeline games. Changyous ability to protect its proprietary rights in connection with its games is critical for their success and Changyous overall financial performance. While Changyou has registered software in China for copyright protection and have taken various measures to protect its source codes, such measures may not be sufficient to protect its proprietary information and intellectual property. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as they are in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. In addition, while Changyou has registered some trademarks relating to its games in the PRC and other jurisdictions, and has applied for additional registrations of trademarks, in some instances Changyou may not succeed in obtaining registration of trademarks that Changyou has applied for in different languages, such as English. There is no assurance that these pending or future trademark applications will be approved. Any failure to register trademarks in any country or region may limit Changyous ability to protect its rights in such country or region under relevant trademark laws, and Changyou may need to change the name or the relevant trademark in certain cases, which may adversely affect its branding and marketing efforts. 78 Despite Changyous efforts to protect its intellectual property, online game developers may copy its ideas and designs, and other third parties may infringe its intellectual property rights. For example, certain third parties have misappropriated the source codes of previous versions of TLBB and have set up unauthorized servers in China and elsewhere to operate TLBB to compete with it. Although in response Changyou has taken measures to enforce its intellectual property rights, such measures may not be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from Changyous games and may result in decreases in its revenues. Litigation relating to intellectual property rights may result in substantial costs to Changyou and diversion of resources and management attention away from its business, and may not be successful. In addition, Changyous ideas and certain of its designs, if not fixed in a tangible form of expression or registered with the appropriate PRC authorities, may not be protected by patents or other intellectual property rights. As a result, Changyou may be limited in its ability to assert intellectual property rights against online game developers who independently develop ideas and designs that compete with it. Changyou may not have exclusive rights to trademarks, designs and technologies that are crucial to its business. Changyou has applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of its key trademarks in the PRC, including ChangYou.com, cyou.com, 7Road, TLBB, TL logos, Blade Online, Wartune, DDTank, 17173 and the corresponding Chinese versions of the marks, so as to establish and protect its exclusive rights to these trademarks. Changyou has succeeded in registering the trademarks ChangYou.com, cyou.com, 7Road, TLBB, TL logos, Wartune, DDTank, 17173 and Dolphin Browser in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of other marks and/or of some of these marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry & Commerce of the PRC, or the SAIC, and relevant authorities overseas. Changyou has applied for patents relating to the design of its games and to technology intended to enhance the functionalities of its games. Changyou has various patent applications under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of its initial trademark registration applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, or of its patent applications, are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant authorities overseas that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. We cannot assure you that these applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect Changyous rights to the affected marks, designs and technologies. In addition, even if these applications are approved, we cannot assure you that any registered trademark or issued patent will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of Changyous rights. Breaches in the security of Changyous server network could cause disruptions in its service, facilitate piracy of its intellectual property, or compromise confidential information of its game players. Changyou stores on its servers and transmits over the Internet considerable and continually increasing amounts of data, much of which is essential to the operation of its business or is highly confidential information concerning its business and its game players. In addition, the expansion of Changyous business to include Web and mobile games and its need to comply with PRC regulations requiring real-name registration of Changyous game players are likely to cause the amount of personal data concerning its game players that is transmitted over its networks to increase over time. Any breaches of Changyous network by hackers could cause severe disruptions in its service, allow piracy of the source code used in the operation of its games and allow pirated versions of its games to enter the marketplace, or result in the release of confidential personal or financial information of its game players, any of which could have an adverse impact on its business, its revenues, and its reputation among game players. In order to minimize the likelihood of such breaches as Changyous business expands and the amount of confidential and sensitive data increases, Changyou expects that it will need to expend considerable resources to maintain and enhance the effectiveness of its security systems. The successful operation of Changyous business and implementation of its growth strategies, including its ability to accommodate additional game players and advertising clients in the future, depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the Internet in China is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT. Changyou relies on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity, primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the PRC government has announced plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed as planned or at all. In addition, Changyou will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for continued growth in Internet usage. 79 Changyou may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, claims regarding the content and services Changyou provides over its Websites. As Changyous services may be used to download and distribute information to others, there is a risk that claims may be made against it for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on the nature and content of such information. Furthermore, Changyou could be subject to claims related to the online activities of its visitors and incur significant costs in its defense. In the past, claims regarding the nature and content of information that was posted online by visitors have been made in the United States against companies that provide online services. Changyou could be exposed to liability for the selection of listings that may be accessible through its Websites or through content and materials that its visitors may post in classifieds, message boards, chat rooms or other interactive services. If any information provided through Changyous services contains errors, third parties may make claims against it for losses incurred in reliance on the information. Changyou does not carry any liability insurance against of the foregoing risks. Changyou does not have business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, or offer them at a high price. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for Changyous operations in China or the operations of its joint operators in China and overseas. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in Changyous incurring substantial costs and the diversion of its resources. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access in relation to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede Changyous growth. The penetration rate for personal computers in China is significantly lower than it is in the United States and other developed countries. Furthermore, the cost of Internet access in China is still relatively high as compared to other developed countries. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of Changyous business. In addition, there may be increases in Internet access fees or telecommunication fees in China. If that happens, the number of Changyous game players may decrease or the growth of its game player base may be adversely impacted. Slow growth of, or a decrease in, the traffic on the 17173.com Website may also cause Changyous advertising clients to reduce their use of its online advertising services, reducing its online advertising revenues. Changyou faces risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Changyous business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza or other epidemics or outbreaks. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza and of avian influenza in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza or other adverse public health developments in China may have an adverse effect on Changyous business operations. Adverse effects could include illness and loss of Changyous management and key employees, as well as temporary closure of its offices and related other businesses, such as server operations, upon which Changyou relies, and a decrease in the number of its game players. Such loss of management and key employees or closures would severely disrupt Changyous business operations. Changyou has not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of H1N1 influenza, H7N9 influenza, avian influenza, or any other epidemics. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect Changyous business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to its games. Changyou may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow in U.S. Dollars in the future to service its debt obligations, which would cause it to default under its U.S. Dollar bank loan facilities. Changyous ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance its obligations with respect to, its indebtedness to banks for borrowed money will depend on its financial and operating performance, which in turn will be affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond its control. It is possible that Changyou will be unable in the future to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations to cover indebtedness under its existing or future bank loan facilities. Further, most of Changyous business operations are conducted in Mainland China and most of its revenues are denominated in RMB, while its existing loans were primarily advanced to it offshore in U.S. Dollars, and are repayable in U.S. Dollars. The conversion of RMB into U.S. Dollars must be made via Changyous onshore subsidiaries payment of dividends to its offshore subsidiaries, which can be time-consuming due to Chinas strict foreign exchange controls, which could potentially prevent Changyou from making timely repayment of its offshore loans and cause a default under the loans. 80 Risks Related to Changyous Corporate Structure and PRC Law and Regulations Changyou operates some of its existing games, and plans to operate certain of its pipeline and future games, with Internet authorization codes that Changyou obtained through third-party electronic publishing entities. If the SAPPRFT challenges the commercial operation of any of Changyous games that are operated with Internet authorization codes obtained through third-party publishing entities, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including restrictions on its operations. Under regulations issued by the SAPPRFT and the MIIT, online game operators are required to have an Internet publishing license, and an authorization code obtained under such a license is required for each game in operation and publicly available in the PRC. Changyou publishes certain of its existing games with authorization codes obtained under Internet publishing licenses held by third parties. For example, Changyous VIE Shenzhen 7Road intends to continue to publish certain of its pipeline and future games with authorization codes obtained under the Internet publishing licenses of third parties, and Wuhan Baina Information publishes a mobile online game with authorization codes obtain through a third-party. Current PRC regulations are not clear as to the consequence of obtaining authorization codes through the licenses of third-party entities. Changyous past and expected future practices might be challenged by the SAPPRFT, which could subject Changyou to various penalties, including fines, confiscation of publishing equipment and the revenues generated from the publishing activities, the revocation of its business license, or the forced discontinuation of or restrictions on its operations. If Changyou is found to be in violation of current or future PRC law and regulations regarding Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, it could be subject to severe penalties. The PRC government has enacted regulations that apply to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities, and purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information and content, online games, and online advertising services. Under regulations issued by the MOC, commercial entities are required to apply to a local branch of the MOC for an Online Culture Operating Permit if they engage in the production, duplication, importation, release or broadcasting of Internet cultural products; the dissemination of online cultural products on the Internet or the transmission of such products via Internet or mobile phone networks to user terminals, such as computers, phones, television sets and gaming consoles; the provision of Internet surfing service sites such as Internet cafs; or the holding or exhibition of contests related to Internet cultural products. Many aspects of the existing regulations remain unclear. In addition, the PRC government may promulgate new laws or regulations at any time. If current or future laws or regulations regarding Internet-related activities are interpreted to be inconsistent with Changyous ownership structure and/or its business operations, its business could be severely impaired and it could be subject to severe penalties. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect Changyous business, and it may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to its Websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet any content that, among other things, violates PRC law and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. When Internet content providers and Internet publishers, including online game operators, find that information falling within the above scope is transmitted on their Websites or is stored in their electronic bulletin service systems, they are required to terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately, keep records, and report to relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of Changyous ICP license and other required licenses and the closure of its Websites. Internet content providers may also be held liable for prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to their Websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject Internet content providers to potential liability for the actions of game players and others using their Websites, including liability for violations of PRC law prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. As these regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it is not possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for Changyou as a developer and operator of online games, and as an operator of the 17173.com Website, the wan.com Website and the Dolphin Browser. In addition, Changyou may not be able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through its Websites, or content generated or placed on its Websites by its game players, despite its attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of Changyous content objectionable, they may require it to curtail its games, which may reduce its game player base, the amount of time its games are played or the purchases of virtual items. 81 Changyou may be subject to the PRC governments ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The PRC government has stringent restrictions on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography. Regulations jointly issued by the MIIT and three other government authorities jointly provide for rewards of up to RMB10,000 to Internet users who report Websites that feature pornography, and the MIIT established a committee to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. Changyou has not, to date, received any penalty from the PRC government in this regard. However, it is possible that content considered pornographic or vulgar by PRC government agencies will appear in the future on Websites or games that Changyou operates. In the event that Changyou is accused by the PRC government of hosting pornographic or vulgar content, its business and reputation could be adversely affected. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing property rights of virtual assets and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, Changyou may have relating to the loss of virtual assets by its game players. In the course of playing Changyous games, game players can acquire and accumulate virtual assets, such as game player experience, skills and weaponry. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by game players and in some cases are traded among game players for real money or assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service by a network crash, or by hacking activities. There are currently no PRC law and regulations governing property rights of virtual assets. As a result, it is unclear who the legal owner of virtual assets is and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law and regulations whether an operator of online games such as Changyou would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, Changyou may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages. Changyous online game operations may be adversely affected by implementation of anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. Eight PRC government authorities, including the SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued regulations, or the Anti-Fatigue Notice, requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an anti-fatigue system in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be healthy, three to five hours is defined to be fatiguing, and five hours or more is defined to be unhealthy. Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the fatiguing level, and to zero when they reach the unhealthy level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. These restrictions could limit Changyous ability to increase its business among minors. If these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, Changyous revenues could be adversely affected. These eight PRC government authorities subsequently promulgated additional regulations, including a Notice on Initializing the verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games, or the Real-name Registration Notice, to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and real-name registration. The Real-name Registration Notices main focus is to prevent minors from using an adults identity to play Internet games and, accordingly, provides stringent punishment for online game operators for not implementing the anti-fatigue and real name registration measures properly and effectively. The most severe punishment contemplated by the Real-name Registration Notice is termination of the operation of the online game if it is found to be in violation of the Anti-Fatigue Notice, the Real-name Registration Notice or the circular entitled Implementation of Online Game Monitor System of the Guardians of Minors, or the Monitor System Circular. The Real-name Registration Notice increases Changyous operating risks, as it will be required to spend more resources on the real-name verification and anti-fatigue system, which will lead to an increase in its operating costs. In addition, the amount of time that minors will be able to spend playing online games such as Changyous will be further limited, which can be expected to lead to a reduction in Changyous revenues. Furthermore, if Changyou is found to be violating these regulations, it may be required to suspend or discontinue its online game operations. In February 2013, 15 PRC government authorities, including the SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education, the MOC and the MIIT, jointly issued the Work Plan for the Integrated Prevention of Minors Online Game Addiction, or the Work Plan, implementing integrated measures by different authorities to prevent minors from being addicted to online games. Under the Work Plan, the current relevant regulations will be further clarified and additional implementation rules will be issued by relevant authorities. As a result, Changyou may have to impose more stringent limits for minor game players, which may lead to an increase in its operating expenses and a reduction in its revenues from minor game players. In July 2014, the SAPPRFT issued the Notice on Further Launch Verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games, stating that, in view of some of the hardware and functionality limitations inherent in mobile devices, anti-fatigue system requirements applicable to Internet games do not currently apply to mobile games. If the SAPPRFT in the future decides to expand the anti-fatigue system requirements to mobile games, its operating expenses would be likely to increase. 82 The PRC governments supervision of Internet cafs could adversely affect Changyous ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base in the Internet cafs. Internet cafs are key venues for the playing of Changyous games. In April 2001, the PRC government tightened its regulation and supervision of Internet cafs, imposed capital and facility requirements for their establishment and licensing and restricted the total number of Internet cafs nationwide. These policies resulted in the closure a large number of Internet cafs without requisite government licenses, and encouraged the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet caf chains, while discouraging the establishment of independent Internet cafs. Although in November 2014 the MOC, the MIIT, the SAIC and the MPS jointly issued Notice on Strengthening the Supervision of Law Enforcement, Improve the Management of Policies, Promote Healthy and Orderly Development of the Internet Access Service Industry, which purports to loosen the existing restrictions, it is not yet clear how these changes will be implemented in practice. In addition, governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as limits on the ages of customers and on hours of operation, as a result of the occurrence or perception of, or media attention on, gang fights, fires and other incidents in or related to Internet cafs. So long as Internet cafs remain as one of the key venues for game players to play Changyous games, a reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafs or restrictions on their operations in China could limit Changyous ability to maintain or increase its revenues and its game player base. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect Changyous online game revenues. Changyous online game revenues are collected through the sale of our prepaid cards or online sale of game points. The Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafs and Online Games, or the Internet Cafs Notice, issued by the MOC in 2007, directs the Peoples Bank of China, or the PBOC, to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. The Internet Cafs Notice places strict limits on the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators in the PRC and the amount purchased by individual users in the PRC, and requires a clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. The Internet Cafs Notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. In 2009, the MOC and the MOFCOM jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice. In the Virtual Currency Notice, the MOC and the MOFCOM for the first time defined virtual currency as a type of virtual exchange instrument issued by online game operators, purchased directly or indirectly by the game user by exchanging legal currency at a certain exchange rate, saved outside the game programs, stored in servers provided by online game operators in electronic record format and represented by specific numeric units. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice categorizes companies involved with virtual currency in the PRC as either issuers or trading platforms and prohibits companies from simultaneously operating both as issuers and as trading platforms. One of the Virtual Currency Notices stated intended objectives is to limit the circulation of virtual currency and thereby reduce concerns that it may impact real world inflation. Specifically, the Virtual Currency Notice requires online game operators to report the total amount of their issued virtual currency on a quarterly basis, and game operators are prohibited from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currency in order to generate revenues. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice reiterates that virtual currency can only be provided to users in exchange for an RMB payment and can only be used to pay for virtual goods and services of the issuers. Online game operators are prohibited from providing lucky draws or lotteries which are conducted on the condition that participants contribute cash or virtual currencies in exchange for game props or virtual currencies, and from providing virtual currency trading services to minors. The Virtual Currency Notice places additional potentially burdensome obligations on online game operators, including a requirement that operators keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days, which means that Changyou must design and operate its databases so it can maintain users information for the minimum required period, resulting in higher costs for our online game operations. Changyou must tailor its business model carefully in order to comply with the overall requirements of the Virtual Currency Notice, in a manner which can be expected to result in relatively lower sales of Changyous game coins and an adverse impact on its online game revenues. Changyous business may be adversely affected by public opinion and governmental policies in China as well as in other jurisdictions where Changyou operates its online games or licenses its online games to third parties. Currently, most of Changyous game players in China are young males, many of whom are students. Due to relatively easy access to personal computers and Internet cafs, the increasing use and popularity of mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets connected to the Internet, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including education, vocational training, sports, and resting, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. 83 Adverse public opinion could discourage game players from playing Changyous games, and could result in government regulations that impose additional limitations on the operations of online games as well as game players access to online games. For example, under the Monitor System Circular online game operators are required to adopt various measures to maintain a system to communicate with the parents of minors playing online games and are required to monitor the activities of minors and suspend the accounts of minors if so requested by their parents. We believe that stricter government regulations, such as regulations imposing stricter age and hour limits, limiting the issuance of virtual currency by online game operators or the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual game player, and extending anti-fatigue-related regulations to adults, could be implemented in the future. Any such adverse public opinion or tightened government regulations could adversely affect Changyous ability to maintain or increase its revenues. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, has announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. It is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Changyous game players or its business, but collection of such a tax might discourage players who are interested in trading virtual currencies from playing Changyous games, which could reduce its revenues. Moreover, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Changyou licenses or operates its games, which could similarly adversely affect its revenues. PRC law and regulations governing the online game industry in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Changyou may fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits, approvals, registrations and filings. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the SAPPRFT, the MOC and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the online game industry. Changyou is required to obtain applicable permits, approvals and registrations from, or make necessary filings with, different regulatory authorities in order to operate its online games. For example, as an online game operator in China, Changyou must obtain an ICP license from the MIIT, an Online Cultural Operating Permit from the MOC and an Internet publishing license from the SAPPRFT in order to distribute games through the Internet. Any online game Changyou operates needs to be approved by the SAPPRFT prior to its launch and filed with the MOC within 30 days after its launch. Once a new online game or any upgrade, expansion pack or new version of any existing game is launched, such new game or such upgrade, expansion pack or new version of such existing game must be filed with the MOC and approval must be obtained from the SAPPRFT for online publication. Shenzhen 7Roads current ICP license does not specifically permit the operation of BBS services, and it is unclear whether Shenzhen 7Road is required to have an ICP license that specifically permits such services, as the State Council has issued a decision that such specific approval is not required for an ICP, but local authorities generally continue to require such specific approval for BBS services. If Changyou fails to maintain any of its permits, approvals or registrations, to make any necessary filings, or to apply for and obtain any new permits, approvals or registrations or make any new filings on a timely basis, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including fines and a requirement that Changyou discontinue or limit its operations. As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new law and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those Changyou currently has, and address new issues that arise. In addition, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC law and regulations applicable to the online game industry. For example, there is ambiguity as to the division of authority and responsibilities between the SAPPRFT and the MOC with respect to regulating online games and, as a result, there may be overlapping approval requirements with respect to some aspects of Changyous games or its game operations. Furthermore, as mobile games are a new type of online game, there are uncertainties relating to whether a game developer, such as Changyou, which provides mobile games to mobile device users, needs to obtain a separate operating license in addition to the ICP license that it has already obtained. For any mobile games Changyou launches, Changyou may be required to apply for a separate operating license for the mobile applications. Therefore, Changyou may not be able to obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future, and Changyou may be found to be in violation of current or future PRC law and regulations, which could impede its ability to conduct business. 84 Further strengthened supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect Changyous online game operations. In September 2009, the SAPPRFT together with the National Copyright Administration, and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening on the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Game and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Game, or the SAPPRFT Online Game Notice. In the SAPPRFT Online Game Notice, the SAPPRFT states that it is the only governmental department with authority for examination and pre-approval of online games, and that all online game operators must obtain an Internet publishing license to provide online game services. Under the SAPPRFT Online Game Notice, additional approvals from the SAPPRFT are required when game operators release new versions or expansion packs, or make any changes to the originally approved online game. In addition, on July 1, 2009, the SAPPRFT issued a Notice on Strengthening the Approval and Administration of Imported Online Games, in which the SAPPRFT stated that it is the only governmental department authorized by the State Council to approve the importation of online games from offshore copyright owners. In the event of any failure to meet the above-mentioned requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operation, or having its business license revoked. Changyous online game business may be adversely affected by these two SAPPRFT notices. The launch of expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the extra approval required. Such delay in releasing expansion packs or imported games may result in higher costs for Changyous online game operation and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOCs supervision of the online game industry. Specifically, the Online Game Measures reiterate that the MOC has the power to review the content of all online games except online game publications that have been pre-approved by the SAPPRFT. However, the Online Game Measures do not clearly specify what constitutes online game publication. Furthermore, the Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with the MOC, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a games storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. Changyous online game business may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when Changyou tries to file or apply for content review with the MOC. In addition, for Changyous imported licensed games, the requirement for prior approval of any substantial change may cause delay in releasing expansion packs, which may result in higher costs of its online game operation and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. In addition, the Online Game Measures do not resolve certain inconsistencies and ambiguities resulting from pronouncements included in previous notices issued by the SAPPRFT and the MOC. Because there is ambiguity in the scope of the authority and the roles and responsibilities of governmental departments, such as the SAPPRFT and the MOC, with oversight of the online game industry, Changyou may face stricter scrutiny of the day-to-day operations of its online game business. If any of its online game operating entities cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC governmental department regarding the online game industry, Changyou may be subject to various penalties and its online game business may be adversely affected. Heightened scrutiny of acquisition transactions by PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on Changyous business operations and its acquisition strategy. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or SAT Circular 698, effective on January 1, 2008, and the Announcement on Several Issues Related to Enterprise Income Tax for Indirect Asset Transfer by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises , or SAT Announcement 7, effective on February 3, 2015, issued by the SAT, if a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of or similar rights or interests in overseas companies which directly or indirectly own PRC taxable assets through an arrangement without a reasonable commercial purpose, but rather to avoid PRC corporate income tax, the transaction will be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets subject to PRC corporate income tax. SAT Announcement 7 specifies certain factors that should be considered in determining whether an indirect transfer has a reasonable commercial purpose. However, as SAT Announcement 7 is newly issued, there is uncertainty as to the application of SAT Announcement 7 and the interpretation of the term reasonable commercial purpose. Under SAT Announcement 7, the entity which has the obligation to pay the consideration for the transfer to the transferring shareholders has the obligation to withhold any PRC corporate income tax that is due. If the transferring shareholders do not pay corporate income tax that is due for a transfer and the entity which has the obligation to pay the consideration does not withhold the tax due, the PRC tax authorities may impose a penalty on the entity that so fails to withhold, which may be relieved or exempted from the withholding obligation and any resulting penalty under certain circumstances if it reports such transfer to the PRC tax authorities. 85 Although SAT Announcement 7 is generally effective as of February 3, 2015, it also applies to cases where the PRC tax treatment of a transaction that took place prior to its effectiveness has not yet been finally settled. As a result, SAT Announcement 7 could be determined by PRC tax authorities to be applicable to the historical reorganization of 7Road and Changyous acquisitions of the equity interests of 7Road and MoboTap, and it is possible that these transactions could be determined by PRC tax authorities to lack a reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, the transfer of 7Roads or MoboTaps shares by certain shareholders to other parties could be subject to corporate income tax of up to 10% on capital gains generated from such transfers, and PRC tax authorities could impose tax obligations on the transferring shareholders or subject us to penalty if the transferring shareholders do not pay such obligations and Changyou does not withhold such tax. SAT Announcement 7 and its interpretation by relevant PRC authorities clarify that an exemption provided by SAT Circular 698 for transfers of shares in a publicly-traded entity that is listed overseas is available if the purchase of the shares and the sale of the shares both take place in open-market transactions. However, if a shareholder of an entity that is listed overseas purchases shares in the open market and sells them in a private transaction, or vice-versa, PRC tax authorities might deem such a transfer to be subject to SAT Circular 698 and SAT Announcement 7, which could subject such shareholder to additional reporting obligations or tax burdens. Accordingly, if a holder of Changyous ADSs or ordinary shares purchases such ADSs or ordinary shares in the open market and sells them in a private transaction, or vice-versa, and fails to comply with SAT Circular 698 or SAT Announcement 7, the PRC tax authorities may take actions, including requesting Changyou to provide assistance for their investigation or impose a penalty on it, which could have a negative impact on Changyous business operations. In addition, since Changyou may pursue acquisitions as one of its growth strategies, and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, PRC tax authorities might impose taxes on capital gains or request that Changyou submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any potential acquisitions, which may cause it to incur additional acquisition costs or delay its acquisition timetable. As the special tax statuses of certain of Changyous PRC subsidiaries and VIEs as High and New Technology Enterprises,, software enterprises or Key National Software Enterprises expire, or if they are revoked, Changyou will have to pay additional taxes to make up any previously unpaid tax and will be subject to a higher tax rate. The CIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25% for both domestic and foreign invested enterprises. High and New Technology Enterprises (HNTEs) will enjoy a favorable tax rate of 15% for three years, but need to re-apply after the end of the three-year period. Key National Software Enterprises can enjoy a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10% for two years, but need to re-apply after the end of the two-year period. Certain of Changyous PRC Subsidiaries and VIEs qualified as HNTEs and enjoyed reduced tax rates in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014 and one of its PRC Subsidiaries qualified as a Key National Software Enterprise in 2013 and 2014. In addition, the CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that Software Enterprises can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. A number of Changyous PRC Subsidiaries and VIEs qualified for exemptions or rate reductions in 2012, 2013 and/or 2014. There are uncertainties regarding future interpretation and implementation of the CIT Law and its implementing regulations. It is possible that the HNTE, Software Enterprise, and Key National Software Enterprise qualifications of Changyous operating entities currently qualified as such, or their entitlement to an income tax exemption or refund of their VAT, will be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will be future implementing regulations that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the CIT Law. Therefore, it is possible that the qualification of one or more of Changyous PRC Subsidiaries or VIEs as a Software Enterprise will be challenged in the future or that such companies will not be able to take any further actions, such as re-application for Software Enterprise qualification, to enjoy such preferential tax treatments. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such income tax or VAT holidays, Changyous effective income tax rate or VAT rate, as the case may be, will be increased significantly and Changyou may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which would reduce its net income. 86 To fund any cash requirements Changyou may have, Changyou may need to rely on dividends, loans or advances made by its principal PRC subsidiaries AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology, which are subject to limitations and possible taxation under applicable PRC law. Changyou may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity, or loans and advances made by its PRC subsidiaries AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology to fund any cash requirements Changyou may have, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions, if any, to its shareholders or ADS holders, and to service any debt Changyou may incur. The distribution of dividends and the making of loans and advances by entities organized in China are subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of the entities registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends, loans or advances. AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology may also allocate a portion of their after-tax profits, as determined by their boards of directors, to their staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to it. In addition, if AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology or Beijing Baina Technology incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to Changyou. Furthermore, under regulations of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, the RMB is not convertible into foreign currencies for capital account items, such as loans, repatriation of investments and investments outside of China, unless prior approval of the SAFE is obtained and prior registration with the SAFE is made, which could delay or prevent any transfers of funds from Changyous PRC subsidiaries to it. In addition, there are uncertainties under the CIT Law with regard to the PRC withholding tax on dividends paid by AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology to Changyous Hong Kong subsidiaries. Should such dividends be subject to PRC withholding tax or be subject to the usual CIT Law withholding tax rate of 10% rather than the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5% provided under the China-HK Tax Arrangement, the amount of cash available for Changyous cash needs, including for the payment of dividends to its shareholders, including us, would be reduced. Furthermore, Changyou controls its principal VIEs Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, Shenzhen 7Road and Wuhan Baina Information through contractual arrangements rather than equity ownership. See Item 7 Major Shareholders and Related Party TransactionsRelated Party Transactions. To the extent that there is any distributable profit in Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, Shenzhen 7Road or Wuhan Baina Information, it may be difficult for these entities to distribute such profit to AmazGame Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology or Beijing Baina Technology, which may further limit the amount that these PRC subsidiaries can distribute to Changyou. Risks Related to Changyous Class A Ordinary Shares and ADSs Changyous operating results for a particular period could fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, resulting in a decrease in the price of its ADSs and the value of our interest in Changyou. Changyous operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors beyond its control, such as the slowdown in Chinas economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and third quarter of 2012 and during 2014, caused in part by measures adopted by the Chinese government intended to slow such growth and to temper real estate prices and inflation, and the significant instability recently experienced in the worldwide economy, with growth in the United States slowing, and the European Community facing disruptions as a result of crises in the economies of Greece and Spain, among other countries, and such factors may be difficult to predict for any given period. Other factors also could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results, including the timing and success of its new game launches, its costs of developing and launching new games and software, and the level of user activity of its games and software in China during particular fiscal quarters. If its operating results for any period fall below its expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, the price of its ADSs is likely to decrease, which would reduce the value of our ownership interest in Changyou. Holders of Changyous ADSs and Class A ordinary shares, including us, will experience dilution when additional Class A ordinary shares are issued in settlement of restricted share units or upon exercise of options. Holders of Changyous ADSs and Class A ordinary shares, including us, will experience dilution to the extent that additional Class A ordinary shares are issued upon settlement of restricted share units or exercise of outstanding options that Changyou may grant from time to time. As of the date of this report, there were outstanding 208,986 Class A restricted share units of Changyou, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share, and outstanding options for the purchase of 2,400,000 Changyou Class A ordinary shares at a nominal price. 87 Changyou may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to its shareholders, including us, or increase its debt service obligations. Changyou may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions Changyou may decide to pursue. If its cash resources are insufficient to satisfy its cash requirements, Changyou may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to its shareholders, including us. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict its operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to Changyou, if at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments that we received from the staff of the SEC 180 days or more before the end of the year ended December 31, 2014 regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Sohu In February 2007, we purchased an office building of approximately 18,265 square meters in Beijing, for consideration of approximately $35.3 million, of which 16,264 square meters were leased to Sogou. In November 2009, we entered into a contract for the purchase and development of an office building of approximately 41,283 square meters in Beijing to serve as our headquarters, for consideration of approximately $162 million. The office building was placed in service in May 2013. As of December 31, 2014, we leased office space in Beijing of approximately 11,606 square meters. We also leased office space of approximately 29,928 square meters in other cities in the PRC. Sogou As of December 31, 2014, Sogou leased 5,062 square meters of office space in Beijing, in addition to office space that Sogou leased from Sohu. Changyou In August 2009, Changyou purchased an office building of approximately 14,950 square meters in Beijing, for consideration of approximately $33.4 million. In August 2010, Changyou entered into a contract for the purchase and development of an office building of approximately 56,549 square meters in Beijing to serve as its headquarters, for consideration of approximately $171 million. The office building was placed in service in December 2013. As of December 31, 2014, Changyou leased additional office space in Beijing of approximately 7,555 square meters. Changyou also leased office space of approximately 36,272 square meters in other cities in the PRC and in other countries. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time we become subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, and a variety of claims arising in connection with our e-mail, message boards and other communications and community features, such as claims alleging defamation or invasion of privacy. Such legal proceedings or claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and management resources. There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2014. 88 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON STOCK, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol SOHU. Public trading in our common stock commenced on July 12, 2000. The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market for the quarters indicated. 2013 2014 High Low High Low First quarter $ 50.68 $ 39.79 $ 87.68 $ 62.71 Second quarter 68.58 45.85 66.69 52.69 Third quarter 79.75 59.52 63.00 50.12 Fourth quarter 87.29 60.01 53.31 42.03 The closing price of our common stock on February 25, 2015 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $51.66. Holders As of February 11, 2015, there were 17 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the exact number of beneficial holders represented by these record holders. As of February 11, 2015, there were approximately 11,150 beneficial holders of our common stock. Dividends On September 17, 2013, Sogou distributed a special dividend to holders of its Series A Preferred Shares in the amount of $300.9 million, of which Sohu Search received $161.2 million, Photon received $43.0 million, and China Web received $96.7 million. On August 6, 2012, Changyou declared a special one-time cash dividend of $1.90 per Class A or Class B ordinary share, or $3.80 per American depositary share (ADS) and a total of $201 million. On September 21, 2012, Changyou paid out this special cash dividend, of which $136 million was paid to and received by Sohu. We do not expect to pay any of the dividends received from Changyou and Sogou, or to pay any other dividends, to our shareholders in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information in Item 12 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we did not have a program for the repurchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Sohu.com Inc. or of outstanding ADSs of Changyou.com Limited. 89 Report of Offering of Securities and Use of Proceeds Therefrom Initial Public Offering of our Common Stock On July 17, 2000, we completed an underwritten initial public offering of our common stock pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-1 (SEC file No. 333-96137), which became effective on July 10, 2000. Our net proceeds, after deduction of the underwriting discount of $4.2 million and offering expenses of $3.2 million, were approximately $52.4 million. None of the expense payments were made to the underwriters, to any of our directors, officers or affiliates or to any persons owning 10% or more of any class of our equity securities. Through December 31, 2014, we had used $8.2 million of the net proceeds from the offering for operating activities, purchases of fixed assets, funding for certain equity investments and strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses. The remaining net proceeds from the offering have been invested in cash and cash equivalents. The use of the proceeds from the offering does not represent a material change in the use of proceeds described in the prospectus contained in the Registration Statement on Form S-1 described above. PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return for Sohu, the NASDAQ Stock Market (U.S. companies) Index (or the NASDAQ Market Index) and the Morningstar Group Index. The graph covers the period from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2014. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2008 in our common stock, the NASDAQ Market Index and the Morningstar Group index, and the reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Sohu.com Inc. Morningstar Group NASDAQ Market Index 12/31/2009 105.06 88.49 87.25 12/31/2010 116.45 93.63 103.08 12/31/2011 91.71 91.54 102.27 12/31/2012 86.83 89.25 120.40 12/31/2013 154.06 355.07 281.18 12/31/2014 92.84 192.93 221.02 90 The Stock Performance Graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not deemed to be incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this annual report on Form 10-K into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, or any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that we specifically request that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate this information by reference into any such filing, and will not otherwise be deemed incorporated by reference into any other filing under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference. Information used on the graphs was obtained from Morningstar, Inc., a source believed to be reliable. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated financial data below should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Reclassification of the Mobile Business to the Others Business Commencing in the first quarter of 2014, we reclassified the mobile business and the mobile segment to the others business and the others segment, respectively, because we did not consider the mobile business to be significant enough to constitute a separate business and the chief operating decision maker (the CODM) no longer reviewed the mobile business as a separate segment. The mobile business offers mobile-related services and mobile products, in cooperation with China mobile network operators, to mobile phone users and to China mobile network operators. Most of our mobile revenues are derived from services provided to mobile phone users through products such as short messaging services (SMS), ring-back tones (RBT), and interactive voice response (IVR). To conform to current period presentations, the relevant amounts for prior periods have been reclassified accordingly. 91 Year Ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (In thousands, except per share data) Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 210,856 $ 277,327 $ 290,205 $ 428,526 $ 541,158 Search and Web directory 18,649 62,981 124,389 198,915 357,839 Subtotal of online advertising revenues 229,505 340,308 414,594 627,441 898,997 Online games 327,151 435,508 570,346 669,168 652,008 Others 56,121 76,271 82,261 103,665 122,072 Total revenues 612,777 852,087 1,067,201 1,400,274 1,673,077 Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising 86,684 107,391 161,195 221,659 307,708 Search and Web directory 18,434 35,144 70,628 109,139 163,918 Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 105,118 142,535 231,823 330,798 471,626 Online games 29,852 49,837 76,350 93,307 142,552 Others 29,528 47,975 61,485 55,945 71,456 Total cost of revenues 164,498 240,347 369,658 480,050 685,634 Gross profit 448,279 611,740 697,543 920,224 987,443 Operating expenses: Product development 75,638 112,617 181,359 276,120 409,285 Sales and marketing 101,215 158,187 214,736 351,653 526,514 General and administrative 40,895 59,126 75,243 108,970 204,325 Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 0 27,511 2,906 0 52,282 Total operating expenses 217,748 357,441 474,244 736,743 1,192,406 Operating profit /(loss) 230,531 254,299 223,299 183,481 (204,963 ) Other income (790 ) 9,799 5,422 12,721 9,959 Net interest income 5,889 15,800 25,277 27,829 30,977 Exchange difference (1,415 ) (5,003 ) (635 ) (6,660 ) (1,142 ) Income /(loss) before income tax expense 234,215 274,895 253,363 217,371 (165,169 ) Income tax expense 36,031 46,552 76,171 50,422 6,050 Net income /(loss) 198,184 228,343 177,192 166,949 (171,219 ) Less: Net income attributable to the mezzanine-classified noncontrolling interest shareholders 0 2,558 11,196 17,780 0 Net income /(loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest shareholders 49,555 63,044 78,837 82,044 (32,309 ) Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders 0 0 14,219 82,432 27,747 Net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 148,629 $ 162,741 $ 72,940 $ (15,298 ) $ (166,657 ) Net income /(loss) $ 198,184 $ 228,343 $ 177,192 $ 166,949 $ (171,219 ) Other comprehensive income /(loss) 19,091 43,545 4,413 47,125 (8,390 ) Comprehensive income /(loss) 217,275 271,888 181,605 214,074 (179,609 ) Less: Comprehensive income attributable to the mezzanine-classified noncontrolling interest shareholders 0 2,558 11,196 17,780 0 Comprehensive income /(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest shareholders 51,920 68,598 79,927 92,407 (33,797 ) Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders 0 0 14,219 82,423 27,747 Comprehensive income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 165,355 200,732 76,263 21,464 (173,559 ) Basic net income /(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 3.92 $ 4.26 $ 1.92 $ (0.40 ) $ (4.33 ) Shares used in computing basic net income /(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 37,870 38,216 38,038 38,255 38,468 Diluted net income /(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 3.62 $ 3.93 $ 1.66 $ (0.47 ) $ (4.43 ) Shares used in computing diluted net income /(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,445 38,761 38,392 38,502 38,468 92 As of December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (In thousands) Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 678,389 $ 732,607 $ 833,535 $ 1,287,288 $ 876,340 Restricted time deposits 0 0 246,839 434,048 426,748 Investments in debt securities 75,529 79,354 79,548 82,009 0 Working capital 624,495 639,616 681,490 937,146 902,923 Total assets 1,187,590 1,633,294 2,082,637 2,998,715 2,867,009 Short-term bank loans 0 0 113,000 410,331 25,500 Long-term bank loans 0 0 126,353 0 344,500 Total liabilities 213,031 356,969 705,610 1,161,995 1,178,103 Mezzanine equity Noncontrolling interest 0 57,254 61,810 0 0 Noncontrolling interest 178,442 210,646 230,994 510,015 487,245 Total shareholders equity 974,559 1,219,071 1,315,217 1,836,720 1,688,906 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Sohu.com Inc. (NASDAQ: SOHU), a Delaware corporation organized in 1996, is a leading Chinese online media, search and game service group providing comprehensive online products and services on PCs and mobile devices in the Peoples Republic of China (the PRC or China). Our businesses are conducted by Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and VIEs (collectively referred to as the Sohu Group). The Sohu Group consists of Sohu, which when referred to in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, excludes the businesses and the corresponding subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou Inc. (Sogou) and Changyou.com Limited (Changyou), Sogou and Changyou. Sogou and Changyou are indirect controlled subsidiaries of Sohu.com Inc. Sohu is a leading Chinese language online media content and services provider. Sogou is a leading online search, client software and mobile Internet product provider in China. Changyou is a leading online game developer and operator in China as measured by the popularity of its MMOG TLBB and its mobile game TLBB 3D, and engages primarily in the development, operation and licensing of online games for PCs and mobile devices. Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned China-Based Subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs). Through the operation of Sohu, Sogou and Changyou, we generate online advertising revenues (including brand advertising revenues and search and Web directory revenues), online games revenues and others revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our total revenues were approximately $1.67 billion, representing an increase of 19% compared to 2013, and our gross margin decreased from 66% to 59%. Our online advertising business generated revenues of $899.0 million with 43% annual growth, representing 54% of total revenues. Our online game business generated revenues of $652.0 million with 3% annual decline, representing 39% of total revenues. In 2014, our net loss before deducting the noncontrolling interest was $171.2 million, compared to net income of $166.9 million in 2013. In 2014, our net loss after deducting the noncontrolling interest was $166.7 million, compared to a net loss of $15.3 million in 2013. Diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. was $4.43 in 2014, compared to a diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $0.47 in 2013. Factors and Trends Affecting our Business With the accelerated shift in user activities from desktop computers (PCs) to mobile devices and an increase in the number of Internet users, the usage of various kinds of mobile Internet services continued to accelerate at a fast pace during 2014. At Sohu, we focused our efforts on developing a portfolio of leading mobile products across our business lines that we believed our users would like. Our key products continued to gain traction in terms of traffic. For example, as of the end of December 2014, mobile video views of our video programs had surpassed PC traffic and Sogou search traffic on mobile had increased 150% compared to the end of 2013. The monetization of mobile traffic is also progressing well, as advertisers have begun to increase their budgets allocated to this area. For our media portal business, our transition from a PC portal to full-scale online information service provider is well on track. We now have two popular mobile news products, a Web-based mobile news site, m.sohu.com, and a native news application, Sohu News APP. As of December of 2014, on a daily basis, there were about 30 million active users visiting m.sohu.com and more than 10 million active users visiting Sohu News APP. 93 Online video is one of the top Internet services in China, and Sohu Video is a leading video service provider in China. We noted an accelerating trend away from television toward streaming video, which is important specifically to Sohus online video business, as advertising dollars shift from television to online video. During 2014 we saw user base expansion and increased advertising revenues generated from our video business. In the meantime, as competition intensified, the major players stepped up their content spending to attract viewers. The average licensing fee of premium content grew significantly as compared to 2013. As a result, despite solid revenue growth, our online video business continued to incur operating losses. We expect that the industry-wide unfavorable cost structure will continue to overshadow the profitability outlook for the entire industry, including us, in the near term. However, we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects of the online video business, which is a strategic key business line for Sohu. As such, we will continue to invest in content in order to maintain our leading position in the industry. On September 16, 2013, we entered into a strategic cooperation with Tencent for our search and Web directory business, in connection with which Tencent invested in Sogou. Throughout 2014, we have deepened Sogous coordination with various Tencent products. We believe that this strategic cooperation has reinforced Sogou as a leader in the large and fast-growing China market for search and Internet services, particularly for the mobile end. In the online search sector, Sogou is one of the top three PC search players in China, and we have demonstrated strengthened competitiveness in mobile search. Improving search quality and expansion of channels helped Sogou to grow its search traffic quickly. As of the end of December 2014, aggregate search traffic had increased by 70%, with mobile traffic growing over 150%, compared to the end of 2013. In the fourth quarter of 2014, aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click continued to grow, which improved mobile monetization. For our online games business conducted by Changyou, TLBB, a PC MMOG which we developed and currently operate in China, continues to account for a majority of our online game revenues. Our two primary web games, Wartune and DDTank, have entered into a mature phase and their revenues are trending down. Our recently launched mobile game, TLBB 3D, was well received initially, but may become less popular among mobile game players over time. For the three months ended December 31, 2014, the online games that we operate had approximately 25 million total average monthly active accounts and approximately 3.4 million total average monthly active paying accounts. To reach more user communities and conduct cross-promotions of its games and services, Changyou has invested heavily in the development and marketing of its platform channel business. Such investment has led to a decline in Changyous profitability. In November 2014, Mr. Tao Wang resigned as Changyous Chief Executive Officer. Changyous Board of Directors appointed Ms. Carol Yu, President and Chief Financial Officer of Sohu.com Inc., and Mr. Dewen Chen, formerly Changyous President, to be Co-Chief Executive Officers. Ms. Yu maintains her position as President and Chief Financial Officer of Sohu in addition to her new role with Changyou. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations relates to our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Identified below are the accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates and judgments, and those that we believe are the most critical to fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements. Basis of Consolidation Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Sohu.com Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. VIE Consolidation Our VIEs are wholly or partially owned by certain of our employees as nominee shareholders. For our consolidated VIEs, management made evaluations of the relationships between us and our VIEs and the economic benefit flow of contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In connection with such evaluation, management also took into account the fact that, as a result of such contractual arrangements, we control the shareholders voting interests in these VIEs. As a result of such evaluation, management concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of our consolidated VIEs. Our Group has three VIEs that are not consolidated, since we are not the primary beneficiary. 94 Noncontrolling Interest Recognition Noncontrolling interests are recognized to reflect the portion of the equity of majority-owned subsidiaries and VIEs which is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the controlling shareholder. Currently, the noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements primarily consist of noncontrolling interests for Sogou and Changyou. Noncontrolling Interest for Sogou As Sohu controls the election of the Board of Directors of Sogou, Sohu is Sogous controlling shareholder. Accordingly, we consolidate Sogou in the Sohu Groups consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting economic interests in Sogou held by shareholders other than Sohu. To reflect the economic interest in Sogou held by shareholders other than Sohu (the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders), Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity /(deficit) and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders investments in Sogou Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares are accounted for as a noncontrolling interest classified as permanent equity in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets, as Sohu has the right to reject a redemption requested by the noncontrolling interest. These treatments are based on the terms governing investment, and on the terms of the classes of Sogou shares held, by the noncontrolling shareholders in Sogou. By virtue of these terms, Sogous losses have been and will be allocated in the following order: (i) net losses were allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (ii) additional net losses were allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (iii) additional net losses will be allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares until its basis in Sogou decreases to zero; and (iv) further net losses will be allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Net income from Sogou has been, and future net income from Sogou will be, allocated in the following order: (i) net income will be allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou until their basis in Sogou increases to zero; (ii) additional net income will be allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares to bring its basis back; (iii) additional net income will be allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares to bring their basis back; (iv) further net income will be allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares to bring their basis back; and (v) further net income will be allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Noncontrolling Interest for Changyou As of the date of this report, we held approximately 68% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 95.4% of the total voting power in Changyou. As Sohu is Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our consolidated financial statements, but recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than Sohu. To reflect the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than Sohu (Changyou noncontrolling shareholders), Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in Sohus consolidated statements of comprehensive income, based on their share of the economic interest in Changyou. Changyous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity, adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in Sohus ownership in Changyou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. 95 Segment Reporting Our Groups segments are business units that offer different services and are reviewed separately by the CODM, or the decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The CODM is Sohu.com Inc.s Chief Executive Officer. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. The recognition of revenues involves certain management judgments. The amount and timing of our revenues could be materially different for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Barter trade transactions in which physical goods or services (other than advertising services) are received in exchange for advertising services are recorded based on the fair values of the goods and services received. For online advertising-for-online advertising barter transactions, no revenue or expense is recognized because the fair value of neither the advertising surrendered nor the advertising received is determinable. Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues include revenues from brand advertising services as well as search and Web directory services. We recognize revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our advertisers, after deducting agent rebates and net of value-added tax (VAT) and related surcharges. Brand Advertising Revenues Business Model Through PCs and mobile devices, we provide advertisement placements to our advertisers on different Website channels and in different formats, which include banners, links, logos, buttons, full screen, pre-roll, mid-roll, post-roll video screens, and pause video screens, as well as loading page ads and news feed ads. Currently we have three main types of pricing models, consisting of the Fixed Price model, the Cost Per Impression (CPM) model, and the E-commerce model. Fixed Price model Under the Fixed Price model, a contract is signed to establish a fixed price for the advertising services to be provided. CPM model Under the CPM model, the unit price for each qualifying display is fixed, but there is no overall fixed price for the advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. A qualifying display is defined as the appearance of an advertisement, where the advertisement meets criteria specified in the contract. Advertising fees are charged to the advertisers based on the unit prices and the number of qualifying displays. E-commerce model Under the e-commerce model, Focus sells membership cards which allow potential home buyers to purchase specified properties from real estate developers at a discount greater than the price that Focus charges for the card. Membership fees are refundable until the potential home buyer uses the discounts to purchase properties. Focus recognizes such revenues upon obtaining confirmation that the membership card has been redeemed to purchase a property. Revenue Recognition For brand advertising revenue recognition, prior to entering into contracts, we make a credit assessment of the advertiser. For contracts for which collectability is determined to be reasonably assured, we recognize revenue when all revenue recognition criteria are met. In other cases, we only recognize revenue when the cash is received and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. 96 In accordance with ASU No. 2009-13 , we treat advertising contracts with multiple deliverable elements as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and to recognize revenue on a periodic basis during the contract when each deliverable service is provided. Since the contract price is for all deliverables, we allocate the arrangement consideration to all deliverables at the inception of the arrangement on the basis of their relative selling prices. Search and Web Directory Revenues Search and Web directory services primarily include pay-for-click services, as well as online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou. Pay-for-click Services Pay-for-click services are services that enable our advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogou search result pages and Sogou Website Alliance members Websites where the links are relevant to the subject and content of such Web pages. For pay-for-click services, we introduce Internet users to our advertisers through our auction-based pay-for-click systems and charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Revenue for pay-for-click services is recognized on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Online Marketing Services on Web Directories Operated by Sogou Online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou mainly consist of displaying advertiser Website links on the Web pages of Web directories. Revenue for online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou is normally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, provided our obligations under the contract have been met and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Sogou Website Alliance Both pay-for-click services and online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou expand distribution of advertisers Website links or advertisements by leveraging traffic on Sogou Website Alliance members Websites. We recognize gross revenue for the amount of fees we receive from advertisers, as we have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability. Payments made to Sogou Website Alliance members are included in cost of search and Web directory revenues as traffic acquisition costs. We pay Sogou Website Alliance members based on either revenue-sharing arrangements, under which we pay a percentage of pay-for-click revenues generated from clicks by users of their properties, or on a pre-agreed unit price. Online Game Revenues Changyous online game business offers to game players MMOGs, mobile games and Web games. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where the basic game play functions are free of charge and players are charged for purchases of in-game virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time and perpetual virtual items. Revenues that Changyou generates from self-operated and licensed out online games are included in online game revenues. Self-Operated Games Changyou is the primary obligor of the self-operated games. Changyou hosts the games on its own servers and is responsible for the sale and marketing of the games as well as customer service. Accordingly, revenues are recorded gross of revenue sharing-payments to third-party developers and/or mobile app stores, but are net of business tax and discounts to game card distributors where applicable. Revenues obtained by Changyou from the sale of in-game virtual items are recognized over the estimated lives of the virtual items purchased by game players or as the virtual items are consumed. If different assumptions were used in deriving the estimated lives of the virtual items, the timing of the recording of the revenues would be impacted. MMOGs Proceeds from the self-operation of MMOGs are collected from players and third-party game card distributors through sales of Changyous game points on its online payment platform and prepaid game cards. Self-operated MMOGs are either developed in house or licensed from third-party developers. For licensed MMOGs, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. 97 Mobile Games For self-operated mobile games, Changyou sells game points to its game players via third-party mobile app stores. The mobile app stores in turn pay Changyou proceeds after deducting their share of pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. Self-operated mobile games are either developed in house or licensed from or jointly developed with third-party developers. For licensed and jointly developed mobile games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to mobile app stores and third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Web Games Proceeds from self-operated Web games are collected from players through the sale of game points. All of Changyous self-operated Web games were developed in house. Licensed Out Games Changyou also authorizes third-parties to operate its online games. Licensed out games include MMOGs, mobile games and Web games developed in house and mobile games jointly developed with third-party developers. Changyou receives monthly revenue-based royalty payments from all the third-party licensee operators. Changyou receives additional up-front license fees from certain third-party licensee operators who are entitled to an exclusive right to operate Changyous games in specified geographic areas. Since Changyou is obligated to provide post-sale services, the initial license fees are recognized as revenue ratably over the license period, and the monthly revenue-based royalty payments are recognized when relevant services are delivered, provided that collectability is reasonably assured. Changyou views the third-party licensee operators as Changyous customers and recognizes revenues on a net basis, as Changyou does not have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the game services. Changyou remits to the third-party developers a pre-agreed percentage of revenues from jointly developed and licensed out mobile games, and recognizes revenues on a net basis. Others Revenues Sohu Others revenues attributable to Sohu are primarily generated from offering mobile-related services and mobile products. Most of Sohus mobile revenues are derived from services provided to mobile phone users through products such as SMS, RBT and IVR. We obtain fees for these services from China mobile network operators, which charge users on a monthly or per message /download basis for mobile services we provide, and we make payments to third-party mobile service alliance members and content providers based on revenue-sharing arrangements. Such revenues are recognized on either a gross or a net basis, which is determined by evaluating the terms of the arrangement to determine whether we are serving as principal or agent in a transaction. Sogou Others revenue attributable to Sogou are IVAS revenues derived from the operation of Web games of third-party developers and services that Sogou provides to users. Revenues from IVAS are recognized when Sogous obligations under the agreements with the third-party developers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Changyou Others revenues attributable to Changyou are primarily generated from its platform channel business and its others business. In its platform channel business, Changyou offers IVAS with respect to the operation of Web games of third-party developers and services provided to software application users. Revenues from IVAS are recognized when Changyous obligations under the agreements with the third-party developers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In its others business, Changyou provides advertisement placements in advertising slots to be shown in cinemas before the screening of movies. When all the recognition criteria are met, revenues from cinema advertising are recognized based on a percentage of the advertising slots actually delivered or on a straight-line basis over the contract period. 98 Cost of Revenues Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues includes cost of revenues from brand advertising services as well as cost of revenues from search and Web directory services. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, salary and benefits expense, and depreciation expense. Cost of Search and Web Directory Revenues Cost of search and Web directory revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, and depreciation expense, as well as salary and benefits expense. Traffic acquisition costs represent payments made to Sogou Website Alliance members. We pay Sogou Website Alliance members based either on revenue-sharing arrangements or on a pre-agreed unit price. Under the revenue-sharing arrangements, we pay a percentage of pay-for-click revenues generated from clicks by users of the Website Alliance members properties. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of salary and benefits expense, revenue-sharing payments, bandwidth leasing costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. Cost of Revenues for Other Services Cost of revenues for other services mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business, revenue-sharing payments paid to China mobile network operators, and payments to theatres and film production companies for pre-film screening advertisement slots. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of personnel-related expenses incurred for enhancement and maintenance of our Websites, and costs associated with new product development and maintenance, as well as enhancement of existing products and services, which mainly include the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and maintenance costs after the online games are available for marketing. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, no product development expenses were capitalized. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenditures, salary and benefits expense, travel expenses, and facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expense, professional service expenses, facility expenses and travel expenses. Share-based Compensation Expense Sohu (excluding Fox Video Limited), Sogou, Changyou, and Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video) have incentive plans, and prior to June 28, 2013 7Road had an incentive plan, for the granting of share-based awards, including common stock or ordinary shares, share options, restricted shares and restricted share units, to their executive officers, management and employees. 99 For share-based awards for which a grant date has occurred, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income based on the fair value of the related share-based awards on their grant dates. For share-based awards for which the service inception date precedes the grant date, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income beginning on the service inception date and is re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the related share-based awards. Share-based compensation expense is charged to the shareholders equity or noncontrolling interest section in the consolidated balance sheets. The assumptions used in share-based compensation expense recognition represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change or different assumptions are used, our share-based compensation expense could be materially different for any period. Moreover, the estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value that ultimately will be realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by us for accounting purposes. Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, and Changyou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) as share-based awards, the Black-Scholes valuation model is applied; in determining the fair value of restricted share units granted, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates is applied. In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sogou as share-based awards, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Certain persons who became Sogou employees when Tencents Soso search-related businesses were transferred to Sogou on September 16, 2013 had been granted restricted share units under Tencents share award arrangements prior to the transfer of the businesses to Sogou. These Tencent restricted share units will continue to vest under the original Tencent share award arrangements provided the transferred employees continue to be employed by Sogou during the requisite service period. After the transfer of the Soso search-related businesses to Sogou, Sogou applied the guidance in ASC 505-50 to measure the related compensation expense, based on the then-current fair value at each reporting date, which is deemed to have been incurred by Tencent as an investor on Sogous behalf. To determine the then-current fair value of the Tencent restricted share units granted to these employees, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was applied. Because Sogou is not required to reimburse Tencent for such share-based compensation expense, the related amount was recorded by Sogou as a capital contribution from Tencent. In determining the fair value of ordinary shares and restricted share units granted by Changyou as share-based awards in 2008, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted in 2009 before Changyous initial public offering, the fair value of the underlying shares was determined based on Changyous offering price for its initial public offering. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted after Changyous initial public offering, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates is applied. For share options, restricted shares and restricted share units granted with respect to Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) shares and Changyou shares, compensation expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For share options granted with respect to Sogou shares, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period during which the service period requirement and performance target will be met. For Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search-related businesses, compensation expense is recognized by Sogou on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, and the fair value of the share-based compensation is re-measured at each reporting date until a measurement date occurs. For Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares repurchased from our employees in the second quarter of 2014, share-based compensation expense is recognized by the Sohu Group in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income in an amount equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value at the repurchase date of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares that we repurchased. The number of share-based awards for which the service is not expected to be rendered over the requisite period is estimated, and no compensation expense is recorded for the number of awards so estimated. Sohu Video Share-based Awards On January 4, 2012, Sohu Video, the holding entity of Sohus video division, adopted a 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the Video 2011 Share Incentive Plan) which provides for the issuance of up to 25,000,000 ordinary shares of Sohu Video (representing approximately 10% of the outstanding Sohu Video Shares on a fully-diluted basis) to management and key employees of the video division and to Sohu management. As of December 31, 2014, grants of options for the purchase of 16,368,200 ordinary shares of Sohu Video had been made, of which options for the purchase of 4,972,800 ordinary shares were vested. 100 For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date may be established until a mutual understanding can be reached between Sohu Video and the recipients as to the option awards key terms and conditions, and such mutual understanding cannot be reached until the fair value of the awards is determinable and can be accounted for. No grant date could be determined as of December 31, 2014, because the broader terms and conditions of the option awards had neither been finalized nor mutually agreed upon with the recipients. Under ASC 718-10-55 , if the service inception date precedes the grant date for equity-classified awards, compensation expense should be accrued beginning on the service inception date and re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair value would be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense should be adjusted based on the fair value at the grant date. Management determined that the service inception date with respect to vested option awards for the purchase of 4,972,800 shares had preceded the grant date. 7Road Share-based Awards On July 10, 2012, 7Road adopted the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan, which initially provided for the issuance to selected directors, officers, employees, consultants and advisors of 7Road of up to 5,100,000 ordinary shares of 7Road (amounting to 5.1% of the then outstanding 7Road shares on a fully-diluted basis). On November 2, 2012, 7Roads Board of Directors and its shareholders approved an increase from 5,100,000 to 15,100,000 ordinary shares (amounting to 13.7% of the then outstanding 7Road shares on a fully-diluted basis) under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan. On May 1, 2013, Changyou entered into an agreement with the noncontrolling shareholders of 7Road to acquire all of the outstanding ordinary shares of 7Road held by them. The acquisition closed on June 5, 2013. On June 28, 2013, 7Roads Board of Directors approved the cancellation of the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan. 7Road concurrently offered to a total of 42 7Road employees holding an aggregate of 2,223,750 restricted share units which had been granted under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan the right to exchange their restricted share units for, at each employees election, in each case subject to the employees continued employment by 7Road, either (i) Scheme I: the right to a cash payment of up to an aggregate of $2.90 per restricted share unit exchanged, vesting and payable at the rate of 40%, 30% and 30%, respectively, on the first, second and third anniversaries of July 18, 2012, which is the date when the surrendered restricted share units were granted under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan, or (ii) Scheme II: the right to receive an annual cash bonus, over a seven-year period commencing July 1, 2013, based on the adjusted annual cumulative net income of 7Road. All restricted share units held by these 42 holders under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan as of June 28, 2013 were included in this exchange program. In the third quarter of 2013, 7Road granted to an additional 48 7Road employees the right to receive an annual cash bonus under Scheme II with the same terms as described above. As the original awards of restricted share units made under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan included as a vesting condition the completion of an initial public offering, which is not considered probable until it occurs, no share-based compensation expense was recognized for the fair value of the original awards. Incremental compensation expense, which is not classified as share-based compensation expense, is equal to the fair values of the two new compensation schemes included in the exchange program as of the date of the modification resulting from the exchange program. For Scheme I, compensation expense of $4.1 million was recognized as of December 31, 2014 with respect to the modification, and $0.4 million will be recognized in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income ratably over the remaining vesting period of the awards. For Scheme II, the incremental compensation expense varies depending on 7Roads financial performance. Changyou Employee Incentive Plans On February 8, 2014, Changyous Board of Directors approved three new employee incentive plans with terms of 10 years, commencing January 1, 2014. Under two of these three plans, Changyou could have distributed cash compensation of up to 10% of its company-wide annual net profits after certain adjustments. The third employee incentive plan was structured to allow eligible employees to receive up to 20% of the annual adjusted net profits of projects that they worked on. In December 2014, Changyous management reassessed the estimated compensation expense related to these three employee incentive plans and Changyou reversed accruals associated with the compensation expense previously recognized for these plans in a total amount of $32.2 million. Changyous management also recommended cancelling the three employee incentive plans, and replacing them with a new cash bonus plan commencing in 2015. Changyous Board of Directors approved the cancellation of the three incentive plans on February 7, 2015. 101 Taxation Income Taxes Recognition Income taxes are accounted for using an asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if based on available evidence, it is considered that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making such determination, we consider factors including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future profitability, and tax planning strategies. If events were to occur in the future that would allow us to realize more of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the deferred tax assets that would increase income for the period when those events occurred. If events were to occur in the future that would require us to realize less of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that would decrease income for the period when those events occurred. Significant management judgment is required in determining income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets relate to net operating losses and temporary differences between accounting basis and tax basis for our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs, which are subject to corporate income tax in the PRC under the CIT law. Applicable Income Tax Rate The CIT Law applies an income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises but grants preferential tax treatment to High and New Technology Enterprises (HNTEs). Under this preferential tax treatment, HNTEs can enjoy an income tax rate of 15% for three years, but need to re-apply after the end of the three-year period. In addition, the CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a Key National Software Enterprise can enjoy a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10% for two years, but needs to re-apply after the end of the two-year period. Entities Qualified as HNTEs As of December 31, 2014, the following principal entities were qualified as HNTEs and were entitled to an income tax rate of 15%, except that AmazGame was entitled to an income tax rate of 10% because it was also qualified as a Key National Software Enterprise and was in an initial preferential period. For Sohu Business Sohu Era and Sohu Media. Sohu Era and Sohu Media re-applied for and received renewed qualification as HNTEs in 2014, which will allow them to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate of HNTEs for 2014 through 2016. They will each need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. Sohu Internet. Sohu Internet will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2015. Guangzhou Qianjun. Guangzhou Qianjun will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. For Sogou Business Sogou Information. Sogou Information will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2015. Sogou Technology. Sogou Technology re-applied for and received renewed qualification as an HNTE in 2014, which will allow it to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate of an HNTE for 2014 through 2016. Sogou Technology will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. For Changyou Business AmazGame, Gamease and Shenzhen 7Road. AmazGame, Gamease and Shenzhen 7Road re-applied for and received renewed qualification as HNTEs in 2014, which will allow them to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate of HNTEs for 2014 through 2016. They will each need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. 102 Entities Qualified as Software Enterprises For Sohu Business Sohu New Momentum. Sohu New Momentum was in its first income tax exemption year as a Software Enterprise for the year ended December 31, 2014. For Changyou Business AmazGame. AmazGame is also qualified as a Key National Software Enterprise and has enjoyed a preferential income tax rate of 10% since 2013. AmazGame will need to re-apply for Key National Software Enterprise qualification in 2015. Gamespace. Gamespace was in the first of the three years in which it will be entitled to a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% as a Software Enterprise. ICE Information. ICE Information was not subject to income tax, as it incurred losses. Shanghai ICE. Shanghai ICE was in the third of the three years in which it is entitled to a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% as a Software Enterprise. 7Road Technology. 7Road Technology was in its second income tax exemption year as a Software Enterprise. PRC Withholding Tax on Dividends The CIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by foreign invested enterprises to their immediate holding companies outside Mainland China. A lower withholding tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. A holding company in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% withholding tax rate under an arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital, if such holding company is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC foreign invested enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong holding company is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividend will remain subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. PRC Value Added Tax and Business Tax Effective September 1, 2012, a pilot program (the Pilot Program) for transition from the imposition of PRC business tax (Business Tax) to the imposition of VAT for revenues from certain industries was expanded from Shanghai to eight other cities and provinces in China, including Beijing and Tianjin. Commencing August 1, 2013 the Pilot Program was expanded to cover all regions in the PRC. Our brand advertising and search and Web directory revenues as well as certain online game revenues were subject to the Pilot Program. Revenues from the brand advertising and search and Web directory business as well as from the online game business from Changyous Web game operations that were not developed in-house are subject to VAT. VAT payable is the difference between the output VAT (at a rate of 6%) and available input VAT amount (at the rate applicable to the supplier). Revenues from MMOG operations are subject to a 5% Business Tax. Revenues from 7Road that are deemed to be derived from the sale of software are subject to VAT. VAT is payable by 7Road at a rate of 17%, with a 14% immediate tax refund irrespective of the availability of any input VAT, resulting in a net rate of 3%. We adopted the net presentation method for our brand advertising and search and Web directory businesses both before and after the implementation of the Pilot Program. We adopted the gross presentation method for revenues of in-house-developed Web games that are deemed to be derived from the sale of software both before and after the implementation of the Pilot Program U.S. Corporate Income Tax Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation that is subject to U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income at a rate of up to 35%. To the extent that Sohu.com Inc. has U.S. taxable income, we accrue U.S. corporate income tax in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and make estimated tax payments as and when required by U.S. law. 103 Uncertain Tax Positions In order to assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. For the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Net Income /(Loss) per Share Basic net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and, if dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares comprise shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards using the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with performance requirements is not considered before the performance targets are actually met. The computation of diluted net income /(loss) per share does not assume conversion, exercise, or contingent issuance of securities that would have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e. an increase in earnings per share amounts or a decrease in loss per share amounts) on net income /(loss) per share. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the numerator of diluted net income /(loss) per share, the net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is adjusted as follows. The adjustment will not be made if there is an anti-dilutive effect. (1) Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu represents of the weighted average number of Sogou Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares, shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred shares under the if-converted method, and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and is not determined by allocating Sogous net income /(loss) to the Sohu Group using the methodology for the calculation of net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders. In the calculation of the Sohu Groups diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, the percentage of the Sohu Groups shareholding in Sogou was calculated by treating convertible preferred shares issued by Sogou as having been converted at the beginning of the period and unvested share options with the performance targets achieved as well as vested but unexercised share options as having been exercised during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with a performance requirement was not considered before the performance targets were actually met. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Sogou shares and share options are excluded from the calculation of the Sohu Groups diluted income /(loss) per share. As a result, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of the Sohu Groups basic net income /(loss) per share. (2) Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Changyou shares held by Sohu represents of the weighted average number of Changyou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu of the total economic interest in Changyou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of the Sohu Groups diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, all of Changyous existing unvested restricted share units, and vested restricted share units that have not yet been settled, are treated as vested and settled by Changyou under the treasury stock method, causing the percentage of the weighted average number of shares held by Sohu in Changyou to decrease. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group on a diluted basis decreased accordingly. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Changyou restricted share units are excluded from the calculation of the Sohu Groups diluted net income /(loss) per share. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of the Sohu Groups basic net income /(loss) per share. Fair Value of Financial Instruments U.S. GAAP establishes a three-tier hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring the fair value of financial instruments. This hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The three-tier fair value hierarchy is: Level 1 observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 include other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the market place. Level 3 unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. 104 Our financial instruments mainly include cash equivalents, restricted time deposits, short-term investments, investments in debt securities, accounts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, prepaid non-current assets, available-for-sale securities under long-term investments, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, receipts in advance and deferred revenue, short-term bank loans, other short-term liabilities, long-term accounts payable and long-term bank loans, as well as the repurchase options and the put option for Sogou Series A Preferred Shares. Cash Equivalents Our cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits and money market funds with original maturities of three months or less. Restricted Time Deposits Restricted time deposits are valued based on the prevailing interest rates in the market using the discounted cash flow method. Collateral related to Sogou Incentive Shares Trust Arrangements In February 2013, we deposited $9 million in cash into restricted time deposit accounts at a bank as collateral for credit facilities provided by the bank to certain Sogou employees. The facilities were intended to fund the employees early exercise of Sogou share options and related PRC individual income tax. We are not subject to any additional potential payments other than the restricted time deposit amounts, and believe that the fair value of our guarantee liability is immaterial. Changyou Loans from Offshore Banks, Secured by Time Deposits As of December 31, 2014 we had, through Changyou, loans from offshore banks secured by RMB deposits in onshore branches of those banks. The loans from the offshore branches of the lending banks are classified as short-term bank loans or long-term bank loans based on their repayment period. The rates of interest under the loan agreements with the lending banks were determined based on the prevailing interest rates in the market. The RMB onshore deposits securing the offshore loans are treated as restricted time deposits on our consolidated balance sheets. Short-term Investments For investments in financial instruments with a variable interest rate indexed to the performance of underlying assets, we elected the fair value method at the date of initial recognition and carried these investments subsequently at fair value. Changes in fair values are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Accounts Receivable, Net The carrying value of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. We make estimations of the collectability of accounts receivable. Many factors are considered in estimating the general allowance, including reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, performing an aging analysis and a customer credit analysis, and analyzing historical bad debt records and current economic trends. Additional allowance for specific doubtful accounts might be made if the financial conditions of our customers or the China mobile network operators deteriorate or the China mobile network operators are unable to collect fees from their end customers, resulting in their inability to make payments due to us. Available-for-Sale Securities Investments in debt securities and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values not classified as trading securities or as held-to-maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income or losses in the consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income during the period in which the gain or loss is realized. An impairment loss on the available-for-sale securities is recognized in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income when the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. On August 12, 2014, Sohu acquired approximately 6% of the total outstanding common shares of Keyeast Co. Ltd., a Korean-listed company, for a purchase price of $15.1 million. We classified this investment as available-for-sale equity securities and reported it at fair value. 105 Equity Investments Investments in entities are recorded as equity investments. For entities over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method is applied; for entities over which we can exercise significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or control, the equity method is applied. For cost method investments, we carry the investment at historical cost after the date of investment. For equity method investments, we adjust the carrying amount of an investment and recognize investment income or loss for our share of the earnings or loss of the investee after the date of investment. Repurchase Options and Put Option for Sogou Series A Preferred Shares As discussed in Business TransactionsSogou Transactions, in September 2013 Sogou entered into Repurchase Option Agreements with Sohu Search and Photon, and a Repurchase/Put Option Agreement with China Web, with respect to Series A Preferred Shares of Sogou held by them. On March 24, 2014, Sogou purchased from China Web, pursuant to the Repurchase/Put Option Agreement between Sogou and China Web, 14.4 million Series A Preferred Shares of Sogou, for an aggregate purchase price of $47.3 million. Sogous repurchase options with Photon and China Web were initially recognized in additional paid-in capital in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets at fair value when the agreements were signed. Any subsequent changes in the fair values of the repurchase options were not and will not be recognized. As indicated above, on March 24, 2014, the repurchase option with China Web was exercised by Sogou. As of December 31, 2014, the remaining balance for the repurchase option with Photon in additional paid-in capital was $1.2 million, based on the fair value of the repurchase option on September 16, 2013. China Webs put option with Sogou was initially recognized in other short-term liabilities in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets at fair value when the agreement was signed. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the put option were recognized quarterly in other income /(expense) in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. After Sogous repurchase of the Series A Preferred Shares from China Web on March 24, 2014, the other short-term liabilities recognized with respect to China Web were reversed to zero. Management determined the fair values of the repurchase options with Photon and China Web when the agreements were signed, and of the put option with China Web before Sogou exercised the repurchase option, using the binominal model, with a discount for lack of marketability, given that the repurchase options and the put option were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Management made the determination with the assistance of a qualified professional appraiser using managements estimates and assumptions. We classify the valuation techniques that use these inputs as Level 3 of fair value measurements. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include fixed assets, intangible assets and prepaid non-current assets. Fixed Assets Fixed assets mainly comprise office buildings, leasehold improvements, vehicles, office furniture, and computer equipment and hardware. Fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation with no residual value. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Fixed Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Office buildings 36-47 Leasehold improvements Lesser of term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets Building improvements 10 Vehicles 4-10 Office furniture 5 Computer equipment and hardware 2-4 Expenditure for maintenance and repairs is expensed as incurred. The gain or loss on the disposal of fixed assets is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell the relevant assets and is recognized in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 106 Intangible Assets Intangible assets mainly comprise video content and license, customer lists, domain names and trademarks, developed technologies, operating rights for licensed games and computer software purchased from unrelated third parties or acquired in business combinations. Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization with no residual value. Amortization of intangible assets other than licensed video content is computed using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Amortization of licensed video content is computed on an accelerated amortization pattern based on the trend in viewership accumulation. The estimated useful lives of our intangible assets are listed below. Intangible Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Video content and license 4 months to 2 years, or over the applicable licensing period Customer lists 4-8 Domain names and trademarks 4-30 Developed technologies 3-10 Operating rights for licensed games Over the contract terms Computer software 1-5 Prepaid Non-current Assets Prepaid non-current assets primarily include prepaid PRC income tax arising from the sale of certain assets associated with the assets associated with the 17173.com Website by Sohu to Changyou. The prepaid PRC income tax will be amortized over the period of the weighted average remaining life of the 17173.com Website related assets sold to Changyou. Impairment of Long-lived Assets In accordance with ASC 360-10-35 , we review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long-lived assets using the projected discounted cash flow method at the asset group level. The estimation of future cash flows requires significant management judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and is subject to many factors. The discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in our business model is determined by our management. An impairment loss would be recorded if we determined that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in our subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we report in our financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. If a measurement period adjustment is identified, we recognize the adjustment as part of the acquisition accounting. We increase or decrease the provisional amounts of identifiable assets or liabilities by means of increases or decreases in goodwill for measurement period adjustments. In accordance with ASC 350 , goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment and is not deductible for tax purposes. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of October 1, and between annual tests when an event occurs or circumstances change that could indicate that the asset might be impaired. Commencing in September 2011, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) revised guidance on Testing of Goodwill for Impairment. Under this guidance, we have the option to choose whether we will apply the qualitative assessment first and then the quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply the quantitative assessment directly. For reporting units applying a qualitative assessment first, we start the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is mandatory. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying the quantitative assessment, we perform the goodwill impairment test by quantitatively comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. 107 Contingent Consideration Changyous acquisition of Beijing Doyo Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (Doyo) included a contingent consideration arrangement that requires additional consideration to be paid by Changyou based on the financial performance of Doyo for the fiscal years 2013 through 2015. The fair value of the contingent consideration was recognized on the acquisition date using the income approach/ discounted cash flow method with a scenario analysis applied. There were no indemnification assets involved. Mezzanine Equity Noncontrolling Interest Mezzanine Equity consisted of the noncontrolling interest in 7Road and a put option pursuant to which the noncontrolling shareholders would have had the right to put their ordinary shares in 7Road to Changyou at a pre-determined price if 7Road achieved specified performance milestones before the expiration of the put option and 7Road did not complete an IPO. The put option was due to expire in 2014. Since the occurrence of the sale was not solely within the control of Changyou, the noncontrolling interest was classified as mezzanine equity instead of permanent equity in the Sohu Groups and Changyous consolidated financial statements. Under ASC 480-10 , we calculated, on an accumulative basis from the acquisition date, (i) the amount of accretion that would increase the balance of noncontrolling interest to its estimated redemption value over the period from the date of Changyous acquisition of a controlling interest in 7Road to the earliest redemption date of the noncontrolling interest in 7Road and (ii) the amount of net profit attributable to noncontrolling shareholders of 7Road based on their ownership percentage. The carrying value of the noncontrolling interest as mezzanine equity was adjusted by an accumulative amount equal to the higher of (i) and (ii). On May 1, 2013, Changyou entered into an agreement to acquire all of the ordinary shares of 7Road held by the noncontrolling shareholders. The acquisition closed on June 5, 2013, and 7Road has been a wholly-owned subsidiary of Changyou since then. As the put option held by the owners of the noncontrolling interest lapsed upon the closing of Changyous acquisition of their shares in 7Road, there was no associated accretion and no mezzanine equity after the second quarter of 2013. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a company during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances excluding transactions resulting from investments from owners and distributions to owners. Accumulated other comprehensive income, as presented on our consolidated balance sheets, includes a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment. Functional Currency and Foreign Currency Translation Functional Currency An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates, normally that is the currency of the environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. Managements judgment is essential to determine the functional currency by assessing various indicators, such as cash flows, sales price and market, expenses, financing and inter-company transactions and arrangements. The functional currency of Sohu.com Inc. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in the U.S., the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our subsidiaries and VIEs in other countries are the national currencies of those counties, rather than the U.S. dollar. Foreign Currency Translation Assets and liabilities of our subsidiaries and VIEs whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the reporting period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are not included in determining net income for the period but are accumulated in a separate component of equity in our consolidated balance sheets. Foreign currency transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are re-measured at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at that date. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 108 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Reclassification of the Mobile Business to the Others Business Commencing in the first quarter of 2014, we reclassified the mobile business and the mobile segment to the others business and the others segment, respectively, because we did not consider the mobile business to be significant enough to constitute a separate business and the CODM no longer reviewed the mobile business as a separate segment. The mobile business offers mobile-related services and mobile products, in cooperation with China mobile network operators, to mobile phone users and to China mobile network operators. Most of our mobile revenues are contributed by services provided to mobile phone users through products such as SMS, RBT and IVR. Revenues The following table presents our revenues by revenue source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 13 VS 12 14 VS 13 Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 290,205 27 % $ 428,526 31 % $ 541,158 33 % $ 138,321 $ 112,632 Search and Web directory 124,389 12 % 198,915 14 % 357,839 21 % 74,526 158,924 Subtotal of online advertising revenues 414,594 39 % 627,441 45 % 898,997 54 % 212,847 271,556 Online game 570,346 54 % 669,168 48 % 652,008 39 % 98,822 (17,160 ) Others 82,261 7 % 103,665 7 % 122,072 7 % 21,404 18,407 Total revenues $ 1,067,201 100 % $ 1,400,274 100 % $ 1,673,077 100 % $ 333,073 $ 272,803 Total revenues were $1.67 billion for 2014, compared to $1.40 billion and $1.07 billion, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in total revenues for 2014 and 2013 was $272.8 million and $333.1 million, respectively. The increases were mainly attributable to increases in online advertising revenues, which were offset in part by decreases in online game revenues. Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues were $899.0 million for 2014, compared to $627.4 million and $414.6 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in online advertising revenues for 2014 and 2013 was $271.6 million and $212.8 million, respectively. Brand Advertising Revenues Brand advertising revenues were $541.2 million for 2014, compared to $428.5 million and $290.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The increases in brand advertising revenues were mainly from Sohu Video and Focus. Increase in Sohu Video revenues: Revenues from Sohu Video were $175.8 million for 2014, compared to $109.3 million and $48.6 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012, representing year-on-year growth rates of 61% and 125%, respectively, for 2014 and 2013. The increase was driven by our strategy of providing high-quality and differentiated content and increasing the base of daily unique visitors and daily video views, which in turn resulted in higher revenues and also attracted larger numbers of advertisers. For the month of December 2014 compared to the month of December 2013, the average daily unique visitors and average daily video views for Sohu Video increased 99% and 143%, respectively. For the month of December 2013 compared to the month of December 2012, the average daily unique visitors and average daily video views for Sohu Video increased 67% and 87%, respectively. The pricing for online video has generally been stable. The number of advertisers on Sohu Video sites were 318, 257 and 133, respectively, as of the end of 2014, 2013 and 2012. 109 Increase in Focus revenues: Revenues from Focus were $108.8 million for 2014, compared to $87.1 million and $46.6 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012, representing year-on-year growth rates of 25% and 87%, respectively, for 2014 and 2013. This increase was mainly driven by our subscription membership services offered to prospective purchasers of real estate as a result of the expansion of the Focus business through our establishment of more partnerships with property developers. Revenues from these subscription membership services were $44.6 million for 2014, compared to $29.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The number of developers with which we had cooperation arrangements was 808, 375 and 40, respectively, as of the end of 2014, 2013 and 2012. The number of paying subscribers for the membership services was 79,403, 38,423 and 1,762, respectively, as of the end of 2014, 2013 and 2012. Increases in Sohu Media Portal and 17173.com Website revenues: Revenues from Sohu Media Portal were $197.6 million for 2014, compared to $182.1 million and $152.5 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012, representing year-on-year growth rates of 8.5% and 19%, respectively, for 2014 and 2013. Revenues from the 17173.com Website, which is operated by Changyou, were $59.0 million for 2014, compared to $50.0 million and $42.5 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 18% for both 2014 and 2013. The pricing for brand advertising of Sohu Media Portal and the 17173.com Website increased at a rate in the low teens from 2012 through 2014. The rate of increase was consistent with the pricing trend for this industry in China overall, and the volume of advertisements remained stable from 2012 through 2014. The number of advertisers for Sohu Media Portal and for the 17173.com Website was 2,669 and 168, respectively, as of the end of 2014. Other information Sales to our five largest advertisers comprised approximately 8% of total brand advertising revenues for 2014, compared to 9% and 10% for 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded $24.5 million, $15.2 million and $15.4 million, respectively, of receipts in advance from advertisers. As of December 31, 2014, we had obligations to provide, and advertisers had obligations to purchase, advertising services under existing contracts in the amount of $2.3 million, which are required to be provided during the year ending December 31, 2015. The value of brand advertising services provided by Sohu to Changyou was approximately $11.3 million for 2014, compared to $14.0 million for both 2013 and 2012. No revenues or expenses were recognized in Sohus consolidated statements of comprehensive income, as all intercompany transactions were eliminated. Search and Web Directory Revenues Search and Web directory services primarily include pay-for-click services and online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou. Revenues from search and Web directory services were $357.8 million for 2014, compared to $198.9 million and $124.4 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. Revenues from pay-for-click services accounted for approximately 80% of the total search and Web directory revenues for 2014, compared to 75% and 73%, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. Revenues from online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou accounted for approximately 16% of total search and Web directory revenues for 2014, compared to 21% and 23%, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increases in search and Web directory revenues for 2014 and 2013 were $158.9 million and $74.5 million, respectively. The revenue growth of pay-for-click services was principally attributable to an increase in the number of paid clicks and a higher average cost-per-click, as paid clicks increased by approximately 58% and 22%, respectively, and average cost-per-click increased by approximately 26% and 26%, respectively, for 2014 and 2013, compared to the prior year. The revenue growth of online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou was primarily driven by an increase in the number of average daily unique visitors on Web directories operated by Sogou, as the number of average daily unique visitors increased by approximately 37% and 20%, respectively, for 2014 and 2013, compared to the prior year. Online Game Revenues Online game revenues include revenues from MMOGs, mobile games and Web games. Online Game revenues were $652.0 million for 2014, compared to $669.2 million and $570.3 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. 110 Increase/(decrease) in revenues from MMOGs and mobile games: Revenues from MMOGs were $485.1 million for 2014, compared to $531.7 million and $481.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012, representing 74%, 80% and 84% of Changyou online game revenues for 2014, 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from MMOGs for 2014 was $46.6 million, mainly due to decreased revenues from TLBB, following the strategic decision to reduce the games difficulty. The year-on-year increase in revenues from MMOGs for 2013 was $50.5 million, mainly due to increased revenue from TLBB driven by releases of expansion packs. In 2014, TLBB generated $411.9 million revenues, accounting for approximately 63% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 55% of Changyous total revenues and approximately 25% of the Sohu Groups total revenue. Revenues from mobile games were $66.2 million for 2014, compared to $1.7 million and nil, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The $64.5 million increase in 2014 was mainly due to increase in revenues from Changyous mobile game TLBB 3D, which was launched in October 2014. The following table sets forth certain operating data for Changyous MMOGs and mobile games in China for the periods indicated: Average Monthly Active Accounts (1) For the Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (in millions) MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games 2012 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 12.1 12.1 13.6 13.6 2013 13.4 13.5 12.3 12.4 7.6 8.8 6.7 7.7 2014 6.5 9.1 6.9 8.2 10.7 12.2 6.9 13.9 Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts (2) For the Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (in millions) MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games MMOGs MMOGs and mobile games 2012 3.1 3.1 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.2 2013 2.0 2.0 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.7 1.7 2014 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.3 2.7 (1) Average Monthly Active Accounts for a given period refers to the number of registered accounts that were logged in to these games at least once during the period. (2) Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts for a given quarter refers to the number of accounts from which game points are used at least once during the quarter. Increase/(decrease) in revenues from Web games: Revenues from Web games were $100.7 million for 2014, compared to $135.7 million and $89.1 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. Revenues from Web games decreased $35.0 million for 2014, compared to an increase of $46.6 million for 2013. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from Web games for 2014 was mainly due to decreased revenues from Wartune and DDTank in China, which have reached a mature phase in their operation. The year-on-year increase in revenues from Web games for 2013 was mainly due to increased revenue from Wartune. Others Revenues Revenues for other services were $122.1 million for 2014, compared to $103.7 million and $82.3 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase was mainly due to increased revenues from IVAS and the cinema advertisement business. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues by source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 13 VS 12 14 VS 13 Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 161,195 44 % $ 221,659 46 % $ 307,708 45 % $ 60,464 $ 86,049 Search and Web directory 70,628 19 % 109,139 23 % 163,918 24 % 38,511 54,779 Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 231,823 63 % 330,798 69 % 471,626 69 % 98,975 140,828 Online game 76,350 21 % 93,307 19 % 142,549 21 % 16,957 49,242 Others 61,485 16 % 55,945 12 % 71,459 10 % (5,540 ) 15,514 Total cost of revenues $ 369,658 100 % $ 480,050 100 % $ 685,634 100 % $ 110,392 $ 205,584 111 Total cost of revenues was $685.6 million for 2014, compared to $480.1 million and $369.7 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in total cost of revenues for 2014 and 2013 was $205.6 million and $110.4 million, respectively. Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues was $471.6 million for 2014, compared to $330.8 million and $231.8 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in cost of online advertising revenues for 2014 and 2013 was $140.8 million and $99.0 million, respectively. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, salary and benefits expenses, and depreciation expenses. Cost of brand advertising revenues was $307.7 million for 2014, compared to $221.7 million and $161.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in cost of brand advertising revenues for 2014 was $86.0 million. This increase mainly consisted of a $48.7 million increase in content and license costs, a $27.4 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs, a $3.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses, and a $3.3 million increase in salary and benefits expense The year-on-year increase in cost of brand advertising revenues for 2013 was $60.5 million. This increase mainly consisted of a $31.4 million increase in content and license costs, a $16.1 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs, a $14.4 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, and a $2.4 million increase in office expenses, offset by a $10.7 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense. Our brand advertising gross margin was 43% for 2014, compared to 48% and 44%, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year decrease in our brand advertising gross margin for 2014 was mainly due to increases in content and bandwidth costs. The year-on-year increase in our brand advertising gross margin for 2013 was mainly due to a $15.1 million impairment of purchased video content that we recognized in the second quarter of 2012. Cost of Search and Web Directory Revenues Cost of search and Web directory revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, depreciation expenses, as well as salary and benefits expenses. Cost of search and Web directory revenues was $163.9 million for 2014, compared to $109.1 million and $70.6 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in cost of search and Web directory revenues for 2014 was $54.8 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $33.0 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $10.0 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses, and a $9.9 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. The year-on-year increase in cost of search and Web directory revenues for 2013 was $38.5 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $20.7 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $9.0 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs, and a $7.5 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. Our search and Web directory gross margin was 54% for 2014, compared to 45% and 43%, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in gross margin for 2014 was mainly due to increased revenues, combined with lower traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of search and Web directory revenues. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of salary and benefits expenses, revenue-sharing payments, bandwidth leasing costs, and depreciation and amortization expenses. Cost of online game revenues was $142.5 million for 2014, compared to $93.3 million and $76.4 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. 112 The year-on-year increase in cost of online game revenues for 2014 was $49.2 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $24.6 million increase in revenue-sharing payments to mobile app stores, a $9.1 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, a $7.5 million increase in revenue-sharing payments to third-party developers, and a $1.5 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. The year-on-year increase in cost of online game revenues for 2013 was $17.0 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $5.9 million increase in impairment of intangible assets from acquisitions of businesses, a $5.8 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, a $2.4 million increase in revenue-sharing payments to third-party developers, a $1.7 million increase in content and license fees and a $1.1 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. Our online game gross margin was 78%, 86% and 87%, respectively, for 2014, 2013 and 2012. The decrease in gross margin for 2014 was due to a change in the revenue mix as Changyou launched new mobile games and licensed PC games that typically require additional revenue-sharing payments, as well as increased personnel costs associated with new games and mobile initiatives. Cost of Revenues for Other Services Cost of revenues for other services mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business, revenue-sharing payments paid to China mobile network operators, and payments to theatres and film production companies for pre-film screening advertisement slots. Cost of revenues for other services was $71.5 million for 2014, compared to $55.9 million and $61.5 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in cost of revenues for other services for 2014 was $15.5 million. The year-on-year decrease in cost of revenues for other services for 2013 was $5.5 million. The increase was mainly due to revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses by nature and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 13 VS 12 14 VS 13 Operating expenses: Product development $ 181,359 38 % $ 276,120 37 % $ 409,285 36 % $ 94,761 $ 133,165 Sales and marketing 214,736 45 % 351,653 48 % 526,514 44 % 136,917 174,861 General and administrative 75,243 16 % 108,970 15 % 204,325 17 % 33,727 95,355 Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 2,906 1 % 0 0 % 52,282 3 % (2,906 ) 52,282 Total operating expenses $ 474,244 100 % $ 736,743 100 % $ 1,192,406 100 % $ 262,499 $ 455,663 Total operating expenses were $1.19 billion for 2014, compared to $736.7 million and $474.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in total operating expenses for 2014 and 2013 was $455.7 million and $262.5 million, respectively. The increase in total operating expenses was mainly due to increases in sales and marketing expenses and product development expenses. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of personnel-related expenses incurred for enhancement and maintenance of our Websites, and costs associated with new product development and maintenance, as well as enhancement of existing products and services, which mainly include the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and maintenance costs after the online games are available for marketing. Product development expenses were $409.3 million for 2014, compared to $276.1 million and $181.4 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in product development expenses for 2014 was $133.2 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $80.9 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, a $20.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $10.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, a $6.5 million increase in content and license fees, a $4.1 million increase in professional fees, and a $3.9 million increase in facility expenses. 113 The year-on-year increase in product development expenses for 2013 was $94.8 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $71.6 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, a $7.2 million increase in content and license fees, a $4.8 million increase in professional fees, and a $4.6 million increase in facility expenses. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenditures, salary and benefits expenses, travel expenses, and facility expenses. Sales and marketing expenses were $526.5 million for 2014, compared to $351.7 million and $214.7 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in sales and marketing expenses for 2014 was $174.9 million. The increase mainly consisted of an $116.5 million increase in advertising and promotional expenditures, which primarily resulted from higher advertising costs for promotion of Changyous platform channel business, a $40.1 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, a $4.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense, and a $4.3 million increase in travel expenses. The year-on-year increase in sales and marketing expenses for 2013 was $136.9 million. The increase mainly consisted of an $88.5 million increase in advertising and promotional expenditures, as a result of increased marketing and promotion activities, a $38.6 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, and a $6.3 million increase in travel expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, share-based compensation expense, professional service fees, travel expenses, and facility expenses. General and administrative expenses were $204.3 million for 2014, compared to $109.0 million and $75.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year increase in general and administrative expenses for 2014 was $95.4 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $37.7 million increase in salary and benefits expense, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, a $37.5 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $9.4 million increase in facility and office expenses, a $3.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense, a $3.0 million increase in professional service fees, and a $2.3 million increase in travel expenses. The year-on-year increase in general and administrative expenses for 2013 was $33.7 million. The increase mainly consisted of a $20.0 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount and increased average compensation, an $11.0 million increase in professional service fees, and a $3.7 million increase in travel expenses, offset by a $3.8 million decrease in bad debt expense, and a $2.1 million decrease in share-based compensation expense. The year-on-year increase in general and administrative expenses for 2012 was $16.1 million. The increase mainly consisted of an $8.7 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, which was mainly attributable to increased headcount, a $2.6 million increase in professional service fees, a $2.2 million increase in travel expenses, and a $2.0 million increase in bad debt expenses. Goodwill Impairment and Impairment of Intangibles Acquired as Part of Business Acquisitions In 2014, we recognized $52.3 million of goodwill impairment and impairment of intangibles acquired as part of business acquisitions. This $52.3 million impairment loss consisted primarily of a $33.8 million impairment loss for goodwill and a $15.3 million impairment loss for intangible assets related to Changyous RaidCall business, as a result of Changyous managements assessment that the impairment existed based on its conclusion that RaidCall was unable to provide expected synergies with Changyous online games business. In 2013, there was no goodwill impairment or impairment of intangibles via acquisitions of businesses In 2012, we recognized a $2.9 million impairment loss for intangibles via acquisitions of businesses. This $2.9 million was recognized for Changyou. 114 Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense was recognized in costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Share-based compensation expense 2012 2013 2014 Cost of revenues $ 648 $ 575 $ 1,973 Product development expenses 5,210 4,638 24,982 Sales and marketing expenses 2,149 1,071 5,645 General and administrative expenses 5,959 4,145 41,843 $ 13,966 $ 10,429 $ 74,443 Share-based compensation expense recognized for share awards of Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, Changyou and Sohu Video was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Share-based compensation expense 2012 2013 2014 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 6,052 $ 3,799 $ 4,410 For Sogou share-based awards (1) 4,548 5,435 61,918 For Changyou share-based awards 3,366 1,195 4,087 For Sohu Video share-based awards 0 0 4,028 $ 13,966 $ 10,429 $ 74,443 Note(1): Includes compensation expense for Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search-related businesses, and compensation expense equal to the excess of the repurchase price paid to employees over the fair value at the repurchase date of the Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares that we repurchased. As of December 31, 2014, unrecognized share-based compensation expense for Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou and Changyou share-based awards was as follows (in thousands): Unrecognized share-based compensation expense As of December 31, 2014 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 2,634 For Sogou share-based awards (2) 9,805 For Changyou share-based awards 29,686 $ 41,851 Note (2): Includes the unrecognized compensation expense for employees who transferred from Tencent with Soso search-related businesses. Operating Profit /(Loss) We had an operating loss of $205.0 million for 2014, compared to an operating profit of $183.5 million and $223.3 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. This change from operating profit to operating loss for 2014 was mainly due to Changyou. Changyou incurred an operating loss of $41.7 million in 2014, compared to an operating profit of $305.5 million in 2013, mainly because of higher marketing and promotion expenses related to its platform channel business, as well as increased salary and benefits expense. Other Income Other income was $10.0 million for 2014, compared to $12.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The year-on-year decrease in other income was $2.7 million for 2014, and the year-on-year increase in other income was $7.3 million for 2013. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $31.0 million for 2014, compared to $27.8 million and $25.3 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. 115 Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $6.1 million for 2014, compared to income tax expense of $50.4 million and $76.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The $44.3 million decrease in income tax expense in 2014 was mainly due to a $24.6 million income tax benefit recognized by Changyou that resulted from the recognition of deferred tax assets for a net loss carry forward by its operating entities that were loss-making, and a decrease in U.S. tax of $10.9 million. The $25.8 million decrease in income tax expense in 2013 was mainly due to a decrease in PRC corporate income tax expense as a result of a decrease in applicable tax for Changyou and a decrease in withholding tax accrued, offset by an increase in U.S. corporate income tax expense of Sohu.com Inc. Net Income /(Loss) As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss of $171.2 million for 2014, compared to a net income of $166.9 million and $177.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. Net Income /(Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest We had a net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest of $32.3 million for 2014, compared to net income of $82.0 million and $78.8 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders was $27.7 million for 2014, compared to $82.4 million and $14.2 million, respectively, for 2013 and 2012. The deemed dividend for 2014 resulted from Sogous repurchase of 14.4 million Sogou Series A Preferred Shares from China Web, and was deemed to have been contributed by Sohu, as a holder of ordinary shares of Sogou, in an amount equal to the proportionate difference between the price Sogou paid to China Web for the Series A Preferred Shares and the carrying amount of these 14.4 million Series A Preferred Shares in our consolidated financial statements. The dividend for 2013 resulted from the special dividend paid by Sogou on September 17, 2013 to holders of Series A Preferred Shares of Sogou other than Sohu in the amount of $139.7 million, of which Sohu, as a holder of ordinary shares of Sogou, is deemed to have contributed $82.4 million. The deemed dividend for 2012 resulted from Sohus purchase of 24.0 million Sogou Series A Preferred Shares from Alibaba. Net Income /(Loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $166.7 million and $15.3 million, respectively, for 2014 and 2013, compared to net income attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $72.9 million for 2012. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2014. The data have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and, in our managements opinion, they have been prepared on substantially the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the financial results for the periods presented. This information should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The operating results in any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. For a discussion of changes in the basis of presentation for the periods presented below, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations. 116 Three Months Ended Mar. 31, 2013 Jun. 30, 2013 Sep. 30, 2013 Dec. 31, 2013 Mar. 31, 2014 Jun. 30, 2014 Sep. 30, 2014 Dec. 31, 2014 (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data) Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 80,237 $ 100,191 $ 124,780 $ 123,318 $ 111,103 $ 133,408 $ 148,823 $ 147,824 Search and Web directory 36,052 46,171 52,305 64,387 64,309 85,064 98,437 110,029 Subtotal of online advertising revenues 116,289 146,362 177,085 187,705 175,412 218,472 247,260 257,853 Online games 167,421 168,295 161,494 171,958 163,388 153,877 150,338 184,405 Others 23,886 24,247 29,744 25,788 26,515 27,802 32,817 34,938 Total revenues 307,596 338,904 368,323 385,451 365,315 400,151 430,415 477,196 Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising 44,878 51,556 63,780 61,445 64,140 82,898 83,424 77,246 Search and Web directory 20,792 24,498 26,785 37,064 31,737 40,420 46,375 45,386 Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 65,670 76,054 90,565 98,509 95,877 123,318 129,799 122,632 Online games 22,650 22,981 21,750 25,926 26,586 30,263 33,949 51,754 Others 15,209 14,610 13,175 12,951 16,035 16,305 17,912 21,204 Total cost of revenues 103,529 113,645 125,490 137,386 138,498 169,886 181,660 195,590 Gross profit 204,067 225,259 242,833 248,065 226,817 230,265 248,755 281,606 Operating expenses: Product development 51,819 63,361 70,551 90,389 117,722 102,218 107,971 81,374 Sales and marketing 58,723 71,678 90,728 130,524 142,354 136,606 131,742 115,812 General and administrative 22,589 25,772 29,365 31,244 35,354 53,246 49,730 65,995 Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 52,282 Total operating expenses 133,131 160,811 190,644 252,157 295,430 292,070 289,443 315,463 Operating profit /(loss) 70,936 64,448 52,189 (4,092 ) (68,613 ) (61,805 ) (40,688 ) (33,857 ) Other income 2,531 1,532 1,533 7,125 3,750 694 896 4,619 Net interest income 6,701 5,498 7,595 8,035 8,457 8,779 7,468 6,273 Exchange difference (1,985 ) (1,984 ) (1,305 ) (1,386 ) 578 59 (610 ) (1,169 ) Income /(loss) before income tax expense /(benefit) 78,183 69,494 60,012 9,682 (55,828 ) (52,273 ) (32,934 ) (24,134 ) Income tax expense /(benefit) 20,018 16,251 18,923 (4,770 ) (214 ) (1,740 ) (1,036 ) 8,612 Net income /(loss) 58,165 53,243 41,089 14,452 (56,042 ) (50,533 ) (31,898 ) (32,746 ) Less: Net income attributable to the mezzanine-classified noncontrolling interest shareholders 10,668 7,112 0 0 0 0 0 0 Net income /(loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest shareholders 23,066 24,505 22,855 11,618 (4,935 ) (9,443 ) (4,760 ) (13,171 ) Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders 0 0 82,423 0 27,747 0 0 0 Net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 24,431 $ 21,626 $ (64,189 ) $ 2,834 $ (78,854 ) $ (41,090 ) $ (27,138 ) $ (19,575 ) Basic net income/(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 0.64 $ 0.57 $ (1.68 ) $ 0.07 $ (2.05 ) $ (1.07 ) $ (0.71 ) $ (0.51 ) Shares used in computing basic net income/(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,169 38,259 38,288 38,301 38,411 38,475 38,485 38,501 Diluted net income/(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ 0.60 $ 0.56 $ (1.69 ) $ 0.06 $ (2.05 ) $ (1.16 ) $ (0.74 ) $ (0.52 ) Shares used in computing diluted net income/(loss) per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,429 38,492 38,522 38,564 38,411 38,475 38,485 38,501 117 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Resources Analysis Liquidity Sources and Balances Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows generated from our operations. Cash equivalents primarily comprise time deposits and money market funds. Short-term investments comprise investment instruments issued by commercial banks in China, with a variable interest rate indexed to performance of underlying assets and maturity dates within one year. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $876.3 million, and short-term investments of $191.6 million. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $403.3 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $473.0 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Our VIEs held $39.5 million of our cash and cash equivalents and $836.8 million was held outside of our VIEs. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, we had, through Changyou, loans from offshore banks in the principal amount of $370.0 million. These loans were secured by RMB deposits in onshore branches of those banks in the total amount of $417.4 million, which are recognized as restricted time deposits. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.29 billion, investments in debt securities of $82.0 million, and short-term investments of $2.8 million. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $617 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $670 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Our VIEs held $112.3 million of our cash and cash equivalents and $1.18 billion was held outside of our VIEs. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had, through Changyou, loans from offshore banks in the principal amount of $410 million. These loans are secured by RMB deposits in onshore branches of those banks in the total amount of $425.0 million which are recognized as restricted time deposits. We believe our current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs (net cash used in operating activities), commitments, capital expenditures, and investment activities over the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions and other future developments, or changes in general economic conditions. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Chinas Regulation Environment Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively, Sohu.com Inc. may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Sohu.com Limited and Changyou, our wholly-owned subsidiary and majority-owned subsidiary to fund any cash requirements we may have. Sohu.com Inc. may not be able to obtain cash from distributions because our subsidiaries and VIEs in China are subject to restrictions imposed by PRC law or by future debt covenants on paying such dividends or making other payments, and Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC profit appropriation and PRC withholding tax. See also Restrictions and Limitations on Cash Available to Sohu.com Inc. below and