Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Management Estimates Taxation U.S. Corporate Income Tax , and Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this report. Certain activities conducted in the PRC or other jurisdictions outside of the U.S. may give rise to U.S. corporate income tax. These taxes would be imposed on Sohu.com Inc. when its subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) generate income that is subject to Subpart F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or Subpart F. Passive income, such as rents, royalties, interest, dividends, and gain from disposal of our investments is among the types of income subject to taxation under Subpart F. Any income taxable under Subpart F is taxable in the U.S. at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. Subpart F income that is taxable to Sohu.com Inc., even if it is not distributed to Sohu.com, may also include income from intra-Sohu Group transactions between Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries and Changyous non-U.S. subsidiaries, or between Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries and Sogous non-U.S. subsidiaries, or where Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries make an investment in U.S. property, within the meaning of Subpart F, such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. In prior years, Sohu.com Inc. has not been required to treat dividends received by its Cayman Islands subsidiary, Sohu.com Limited, from Changyou as Subpart F income, which would be includible in Sohu.com Inc.s taxable income in the U.S., by relying on what is commonly referred to as the CFC look-through rule. Under this rule, distributions from a lower-tier CFC to a higher-tier CFC are generally not Subpart F income if the activities that gave rise to the distribution arose from an active business. The CFC look-through rule is a temporary provision of the U.S. tax code that has been extended several times by the U.S. Congress. The provision is currently scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019. Unless further extended, the CFC look-through rule will be available for Sohu.com Inc.s, Sogou Inc.s, and Changyou.com Limiteds non-U.S. subsidiaries only through their taxable years ending November 30, 2020. Sohu.com Inc. would also be subject to U.S. corporate income tax under Subpart F to the extent that Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries sell Changyou ADSs or Sogou ADSs at a price higher than the adjusted tax basis of such ADSs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any such resulting U.S. corporate income tax imposed on Sohu.com Inc. would reduce our consolidated net income. 67 Table of Contents The U.S. Tax Reform also includes provisions for a new tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) effective for tax years of non-U.S. corporations beginning after December 31, 2017. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of CFCs, subject to the possible use of foreign tax credits and a deduction equal to 50 percent to offset the income tax liability, subject to some limitations. Our offshore entities may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by the Mainland China-based subsidiaries of our subsidiaries Sohu.com Limited, Sogou, and Changyou to fund any cash requirements those offshore entities may have. Our offshore entities may not be able to obtain cash from distributions because our subsidiaries and VIEs in Mainland China are subject to restrictions imposed by PRC law on paying such dividends and making other payments. Sohu.com Inc. is a holding company with no operating assets other than investments in Chinese operating entities through our intermediate holding companies, our subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, and our VIEs. Our offshore entities may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Mainland China-based subsidiaries of Sohu.com Limited, Sogou and Changyou for the cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by Sohu.com Inc. or our other offshore entities. In addition, for subsidiaries engaging in Sohus business in Mainland China to be able to use the proceeds of cash dividends from Sogou or Changyou, the dividends would have to be paid through the Sohu Cayman Islands entities (Sohu Search and Sohu Game) that hold Sohus shares in Sogou and Changyou. The primary source of any dividend payments to our offshore entities would need to be our subsidiaries in Mainland China after they receive payments from our VIEs under various service agreements and other arrangements. It is possible that our Mainland China-based subsidiaries will not continue to receive payments in accordance with our contracts with our VIEs that such payments will become subject to restrictions imposed PRC law. If our subsidiaries and VIEs incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us through the intermediate companies. In addition, amounts available for dividends are further reduced because transfers of funds out of Mainland China generally are subject to a withholding tax of 5%, if transfers are made to Hong Kong and subject to Mainland China Hong Kong tax treaty, and of 10% in other cases. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of Mainland China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currencies. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive the revenues from our operations through these service agreements and other arrangements, we may be unable to effectively fund any cash requirements we may have. Activities of Internet content providers are or will be subject to additional PRC regulations, which have not yet been put into effect. Our operations may not be consistent with these new regulations when put into effect, and, as a result, we could be subject to severe penalties. The MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. Various government authorities have stated publicly that they are in the process of preparing new laws and regulations that will govern these activities. The areas of regulation currently include online advertising, online news reporting, online publishing, provision of online or mobile music, online securities trading, the provision of industry-specific (e.g., drug-related) information over the Internet and foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to additional regulations in the future. For example, our online interactive broadcasting video platform enables users to perform real time musical acts, exchange information, interact with others and engage in various other online activities. Although we have obtained a permit to engage in the online interactive broadcasting video platform services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not issue new laws or regulations specifically regulating the operation of an online interactive broadcasting video platform. Our operations might not be consistent with current laws and regulations or any such new regulations and, as a result, we could be subject to penalties. Regulation and censorship of information distribution in China may adversely affect our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party takes the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the MIIT has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for contents included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, because many PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the PRC legal system is a civil law system in which decided legal cases have limited binding force as legal precedents. As a result, in many cases an Internet platform operator may have difficulties determining the type of content that may subject it to liability. 68 Table of Contents Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Public Security also has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any Website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. If the PRC government were to take action or exercise its authority to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal or to limit or regulate current or future applications available to users of our portal, our business would be adversely affected. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any Website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. Under the applicable regulations, we may be held liable for any content transmitted on our portal. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, the State Secrecy Bureau has adopted regulations stipulating that Internet companies, such as us, that provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. We may be subject to the PRC governments ongoing crackdown on Internet pornographic content. The Chinese government has stringent prohibitions on online pornographic information and has launched several crackdowns on Internet pornography recently. On December 4, 2009, the MIIT and other three PRC government authorities jointly issued the Incentives Measures for Report of Pornographic, Obscene and Vulgar Messages on Internet and Mobile Media (the Anti-Pornography Notice) to further crackdown on online pornography. Pursuant to this Anti-Pornography Notice, rewards of up to RMB10, 000 will be provided to Internet users who report Websites that feature pornography, and a committee has been established to review such reports to determine an appropriate award. On April 13, 2014, the National Working Group on Anti-Pornography and three other PRC government authorities jointly issued the Anti-Pornography Proclamation, under which Internet service providers must immediately remove texts, images, video, advertisements and other information that contain pornographic content. The relevant government authority may order enterprises or individuals who flagrantly produce or disseminate pornographic content to stop conducting business, and may revoke relevant administrative permits. Although we require all users upon account registration to agree to our terms of service, which specify the types of content that are prohibited on our platform, and we have deleted from our relevant channels and communities all Web pages with material that we believe could reasonably be considered to be vulgar and have strengthened our internal censorship and supervision of links and content uploaded by users, it is possible that our users may engage in obscene conversations or activities on our platform that may be deemed illegal under PRC laws and regulations. For example, we provide an online interactive broadcasting video platform for users, and because the video and audio communication on this platform is conducted in real time, we are unable to examine the content generated by our hosts and users on air before the content is streamed on the platform. There is no assurance that content considered vulgar by PRC government agencies will not appear in the future. We may be subject to fines or other disciplinary actions, including in serious cases suspension or revocation of the licenses necessary to operate our platform, if we are deemed to have facilitated the appearance of inappropriate content placed by third parties on our platform under PRC laws and regulations. In addition, if we are accused by the government of hosting vulgar content, our reputation could be adversely affected. Regulations relating to the online transmission of foreign films and TV dramas may adversely affect our online video business. On September 2, 2014, the SAPPRFT issued a Notice on Further Strengthening the Administration of Online Foreign Audiovisual Content (the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice), which requires that operators of audiovisual Websites obtain from the SAPPRFT a Film Public Screening Permit, TV Drama Distribution Permit, or TV Animation Distribution Permit for all foreign films and TV dramas before they are transmitted via the Internet in China. The September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice further stipulates that before any foreign films or TV dramas for transmission exclusively via the Internet are purchased after the promulgation of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice, operators of audiovisual Websites must declare their annual purchasing plans with the SAPPRFT before the end of the year preceding the year of the intended broadcast and obtain the SAPPRFTs approval. The September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice also states that the number of foreign films and TV dramas to be purchased by an operator and transmitted via its Website in a single year may not exceed 30% of the total amount of the Chinese films and TV dramas purchased and transmitted by the same Website in the previous year. 69 Table of Contents We rely heavily on foreign films and TV dramas to attract users and advertisers to our online video Internet platforms and, accordingly, the promulgation of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice could have an adverse impact on our online video business. If we are not able to obtain the required SAPPRFT approval in time, there will be a delay in our ability to broadcast such foreign films and TV dramas on our Internet platforms and in our generation of advertising revenues from such films and TV dramas. We are also subject to the risk that users might access pirated versions of such films and TV dramas during any such delay, and become less likely to view them on our Internet platforms when they become available, which would cause our online traffic and advertising revenues to be lower than we expected. If we fail to obtain the required approval by the SAPPRFT, we may not be able to recoup the costs we spent in acquiring the broadcasting rights of, and marketing, those films and TV dramas. In addition, it could be necessary for us to recognize impairment charges related to foreign films and TV dramas we have purchased. The requirement of a minimum ratio of domestic video content to foreign-sourced content in the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice may require us to purchase more domestic video content in order for us to be permitted to maintain a sufficient portfolio of online foreign films and TV dramas. If, on the other hand, we respond to the minimum ratio requirement of the September 2014 SAPPRFT Notice by reducing our purchases of foreign films and TV dramas, our attraction to users, traffic or advertisers on our online video Internet platforms could be reduced, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. Regulation and censorship of online interactive broadcasting services in China may adversely affect our business. As online interactive broadcasting has surged in popularity in China, PRC governmental authorities have increased their efforts to regulate it. The MOC issued an Online Performance Notice on July 1, 2016 and issued Online Performance Measures on December 2, 2016, both effective January 1, 2017, and the CAOC issued Live Social Video Provisions on November 4, 2016, providing for the administration and censorship of online interactive broadcasting. The Live Social Video Provisions require us to implement procedures to detect and block illegal, fraudulent, politically-sensitive and inappropriate content and activities conducted through our online interactive broadcasting platform. Although we have implemented procedures for our online interactive broadcasting platform designed to detect and prevent material and activity that we believe could reasonably be considered to be prohibited, it is possible that hosts and users of our platform may distribute content and engage in activities that may be deemed illegal, but that we do not detect and identify as such. Furthermore, we may not be able to immediately block all such content uploads or activities generated by our hosts and users, because there is often a lag between the time our hosts and users upload and stream content on our platform and the time we are able to examine such content. If PRC authorities believe that illegal or inappropriate activities haven been conducted through our online interactive broadcasting platform, or if there is negative media coverage concerning our platform, PRC government authorities may hold us liable for non-compliance and subject us to administrative penalties or other sanctions, which could cause our business to suffer or have an adverse effect on our user base. See Government Regulation and Legal UncertaintiesSpecific Statutes and RegulationsRegulation of the Provision of Internet Content Online Cultural Products. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In July 2014, SAFE promulgated Circular 37, which replaced Circular 75, promulgated by SAFE in October 2005. Circular 37 requires PRC residents, including PRC institutions and individuals, to register with the local SAFE branch in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, referred to in Circular 37 as a special purpose vehicle, for the purpose of holding domestic or offshore assets or interests. PRC residents must also file amendments to their registrations in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. Under these regulations, PRC residents failure to comply with specified registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity, including restrictions on the ability to contribute additional capital to the PRC entity. It is unclear how these regulations will be interpreted and implemented as Circular 37 is newly issued and it is possible that some or all of our and Changyous shareholders who are PRC residents will not comply with all the requirements required by Circular 37 or related rules. Any future failure by any of our, or Changyous shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us and Changyou to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in these subsidiaries. 70 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee share options. Under the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control issued by the PBOC and the related Implementation Rules issued by the SAFE, all foreign exchange transactions involving an employee share incentive plan, share option plan or similar plan participated in by PRC citizens may be conducted only with the approval of the SAFE. Under the Notice of Issues Related to the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company (Offshore Share Incentives Rule), issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, PRC citizens who are granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and comply with a series of other requirements. The Offshore Share Incentives Rule also provides procedures for registration of incentive plans, the opening and use of special accounts for the purpose of participation in incentive plans, and the remittance of funds for exercising options and gains realized from such exercises and sales of such options or the underlying shares, both outside and inside the PRC. We, and any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who have been granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares, are subject to the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control , the related Implementation Rules, and the Offshore Share Incentives Rule. Circular 37 was the first regulation to regulate the foreign exchange registration of a non-listed special purpose vehicles equity incentives granted to PRC residents, there remains uncertainty with respect to its implementation. If we, or any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who receive or hold options, restricted share units or restricted shares in us or any of our subsidiaries, fail to comply with these registration and other procedural requirements, we may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. It may be difficult to enforce any civil judgments against us or our Board of Directors or officers, because most of our operating and/or fixed assets are located outside the United States. Although we are incorporated in the State of Delaware, most of our operating and fixed assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments outside the United States obtained in actions brought against us in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers (principally based in the PRC) and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors and officers, or to enforce against them or us judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, there is doubt as to the enforceability in the PRC, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. If the status of certain of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs as High and New Technology Enterprises, Key National Software Enterprises or Software Enterprises is revoked or expires, we may have to pay additional taxes or make up any previously unpaid tax and may be subject to a higher tax rate, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The CIT Law generally imposes a uniform income tax rate of 25% on all enterprises, but grants preferential treatment to High and New Technology Enterprises (HNTEs), pursuant to which HNTEs are instead subject to an income tax rate of 15%, subject to a requirement that they re-apply for HNTE status every three years. During this three-year period, an HNTE must conduct a qualification self-review each year to ensure it meets the HNTE criteria, and will be subject to the regular 25% income tax rate for any year in which it does not meet the criteria. The CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a KNSE can enjoy a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10%. Enterprises wishing to enjoy the status of Software Enterprises or KNSEs must perform a self-assessment each year to ensure they meet the relevant criteria for qualification. If at any time during the preferential tax treatment years an enterprise uses the preferential CIT rates but the relevant authorities determine that it failed to meet applicable criteria for qualification, the authorities may revoke the enterprises Software Enterprise or KNSE status, as applicable. There are uncertainties regarding future interpretation and implementation of the CIT Law and its implementing regulations. It is possible that the HNTE, Software Enterprise, and KNSE qualifications of our operating entities currently qualified as such, or their entitlement to an income tax exemption or refund of their VAT, will be challenged by higher level tax authorities and be repealed, or that there will be future implementing regulations that are inconsistent with current interpretation of the CIT Law. For example, in 2016 the SAT issued a circular with new criteria for certifying a Software Enterprise. Therefore, it is possible that the qualification of one or more of our PRC Subsidiaries or VIEs as a Software Enterprise will be challenged in the future or that such companies will not be able to take any further actions, such as re-application for Software Enterprise qualification, to enjoy such preferential tax treatment. If those operating entities cannot qualify for such preferential income tax status, our effective income tax rate will be increased significantly and we may have to pay additional income tax to make up the previously unpaid tax, which would reduce our net income. 71 Table of Contents We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose de facto management bodies are located within China are considered resident enterprises and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law , de facto management body is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Since substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC Subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the CIT Law for PRC-resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and profits on the sale of our shares may be subject to tax under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law , PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are non-resident enterprises, not having an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which do have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any profits realized through the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such profits are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. It is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our share, or the profits you may realize from the transfer of our shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are non-resident enterprises, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. The RMB is not freely tradable in capital account transactions, which include foreign direct investment. Foreign exchange transactions classified as capital account transactions are subject to limitations and require approval from the SAFE. This could affect our China-Based Subsidiaries ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Further, although the RMB is at present freely convertible in current account transactions, which include dividends, and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, and our China-Based Subsidiaries may purchase and retain foreign exchange for settlement of such transactions, including payment of dividends, without the approval of the SAFE, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues are likely to be in the form of RMB, these existing restrictions, and any future restrictions, on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside of China, or to make expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. dollar financial statements will decline in value. Also, we currently have outstanding loans from overseas banks that are denominated in U.S. dollars. To repay these loans, we will need to first convert our cash denominated in RMB into U.S. dollars. If the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, we will have to use a larger amount of cash in RMB for any such loan repayment. 72 Table of Contents On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMBs daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMBs value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMBs exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. On April 16, 2012, the PBOC enlarged the floating band of RMBs trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.5% to 1% around the middle rate released by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System each day. In February 2014, the center point of the currencys official trading band hit 6.1146, representing appreciation of more than 11.7% since June 19, 2010. On March 17, 2014, the PBOC announced a policy to further expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market to 2%. Through 2016 the RMB continued its significant depreciation. The center point of the currencys official trading band was 6.5486 in January 2016, and was 6.9189 in December 2016, which contributed to a decline in our revenues reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. dollars. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be so. The IPO price of our common stock in July 2000 was $13.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock subsequently dropped to a low of $0.52 per share on April 9, 2001. During 2015 the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $40.2 per share to a high of $71.78 per share, during 2016 the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $32.6 per share to a high of $55.21 per share, and during 2017 the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $34.59 per share to a high of $70.86 per share. On February 22, 2018, the closing price of our common stock was $34.05 per share. In addition, the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the NYSE have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the securities of technology companies, and particularly Internet-related companies. The price for our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and media properties by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted share options or other stock awards. We are controlled by a small group of our existing stockholders, whose interests may differ from other stockholders. Dr. Charles Zhang beneficially owns approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and is our largest stockholder. Our Chief Executive Officer, together with our other executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, beneficially own approximately 21% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly these stockholders acting together will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. They will also have significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. 73 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation could delay or deter a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as various provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. For example, our certificate of incorporation provides for the division of our Board of Directors into two classes with staggered two-year terms and provides that stockholders have no right to take action by written consent and may not call special meetings of stockholders, each of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board in connection with, or obtain any necessary stockholder approval for, a proposed acquisition or change in control. The power of our Board of Directors to designate and issue shares of preferred stock could have an adverse effect on holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock, having rights and preferences as the board may determine, and any such designations and issuances could have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of common stock. Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the PCAOB) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our common stock are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firms audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. 74 Table of Contents In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SECs rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the ALJ presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SECs rules of practice by failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the ALJs initial decision to the SEC. The ALJs decision does not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. On February 6, 2015, the four China-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. If future document productions fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. While we cannot predict if the SEC will further review the four China-based accounting firms compliance with specified criteria or if the results of such a review would result in the SEC imposing penalties such as suspensions or restarting the administrative proceedings, if the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ or the termination of the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. Risks Related to Our Financing Activities Sogous and Changyous statuses as publicly-traded companies that are controlled, but less than wholly-owned, by us could have an adverse effect on Sohu. Sogous American depositary shares, or Sogou ADSs, are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange and Changyous American depositary shares, or Changyou ADSs, are listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Given that Sogou and Changyou are not wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sohu, it is possible that Sohus, Sogous, and Changyous interests could diverge in the future, as we may need to consider the interests of shareholders of Sogou or Changyou other than Sohu. If Sogous or Changyous interests differ from, or are contrary to, our interests, our business operations may be adversely affected, and Sohu may have disagreements with Sogou or Changyou on certain matters that could also have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, Sogous and Changyous statuses as publicly-listed companies may have adverse U.S. tax consequences for us. As the Sohu Group has three listed companies, Sohu.com Inc., Sogou Inc., and Changyou.com Limited, which are regarded as separate legal entities for U.S. tax purposes, certain transactions between any of these companies, as well as between their subsidiaries and VIEs, might expose Sohu.com Inc. to U.S. corporate income tax at a rate up to 21%. Moreover, certain types of transactions by Sogou and its subsidiaries and VIEs or by Changyou and its subsidiaries and VIEsinvesting in U.S. properties, for examplemight expose Sohu.com Inc. to the risk that the transactions will be subject to U.S. tax. Under certain circumstances, when we sell Sogou ordinary shares or Changyou ordinary shares, as the case may be, held by us at a price higher than our U.S. tax basis, a portion of the proceeds may be subject to U.S. corporate income tax. If we default on loans that we have taken out to fund the operations of our Sohu businesses, we could lose valuable assets that we have pledged to secure the loans, which include two buildings in Beijing, Sohus accounts receivable, and our shares in Changyou, as well as other valuable assets. In order to fund the cash needs of our Sohu businesses, we have entered into loan arrangements with Ping An Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC), HongKong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (HSBC), and Changyou. Under these loan arrangements, Sohu pledged one of its Beijing buildings to secure advances from Ping An Bank, another of its Beijing buildings to secure advances from ICBC, certain of its accounts receivable to secure advances from HSBC, and up to 13,704,663 of its Class B Ordinary Shares in Changyou to secure advances from Changyou. If Sohu were to default under any of these loan arrangements, the affected lender or lenders would be entitled, among other remedies, to seize the corresponding pledged assets, all of which have significant value, and could potentially also seize other valuable assets of Sohu, to cover any shortfalls in amounts due under the loans. See Note 10: Fair Value Measurements Other Financial Instruments Short Term Bank Loans and Long Term Payables and Note 9: Intra-Group Loan and Share Pledge Arrangement to our audited consolidated financial statements, which begin on page F-1 of this report. 75 Table of Contents Risks Related to Sogou Inc. Risks Related to Sogous Business The online search industry in China is extremely competitive, and if Sogou is unable to compete successfully, it will be difficult for Sogou to maintain or increase Sogous revenues and profitability. Sogou operates its business in an extremely competitive industry. Sogou faces intense competition in every aspect of its business, including competition for users, advertisers, technology, and talent. Sogou faces competition for its search and search-related services in China primarily from Baidu Inc., or Baidu, and ShenMa, operated by UCWeb Inc., or UCWeb, which is a subsidiary of Alibaba Group Holding Limited, or Alibaba. Both Baidu and Alibaba have considerably greater financial and technical resources available to them than Sogou does. Sogou also faces competition for both users and advertisers from websites and mobile applications that provide specialized search services in China, including travel services and information platforms such as Ctrip and Qunar; group-buy platforms such as Meituan Dianping; online classified advertisement platforms such as 58.com; and newsfeeds such as Toutiao. Sogou competes for advertisers not only with Internet companies, but also with other types of advertising media such as newspapers and magazines, billboards and bus advertisements, television, and radio. It is also possible that multinational businesses with considerably greater financial and other resources than Sogous could expand their offerings in China, making it harder for Sogou to gain market share. Sogous existing and potential competitors compete with it for users and advertisers on the basis of the quality and quantity of search results; the features, availability, and ease of use of products and services; and the number and quality of advertising distribution channels. They also compete with Sogou for talent with technological expertise, which is critical to the sustained development of Sogous products and services. If Sogou is unable to differentiate itself from its competitors in each of these areas, Sogou may not be able to maintain or increase its user and advertiser base, which would have an adverse impact on its business, results of operations, and growth potential. In addition, Sogou may have difficulty in successfully promoting and differentiating its new products, services, and features as a result of the market power of its competitors. Sogou must expand its user base to grow its business, and Sogou must continually innovate and adapt its business in an evolving online search industry in order to do so. If Sogou fails to continue to innovate and introduce products and services to enhance user experience, Sogou may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic to remain competitive. The Internet industry in general and the online search industry in particular have been undergoing rapid changes in technology and in user preferences. Sogous future success in expanding its user base will depend on its ability to respond to, as well as anticipate and apply, rapidly evolving technologies. Sogou must adapt its existing products and services and develop new products and product areas that will meet the evolving demands of users, deliver attractive experiences for its users that enhance user engagement, and cause its users to return to its services and increase the frequency of their searches on Sogous platforms. Sogous development and introduction of new products, features, and services are subject to additional risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, distribution, or other problems could delay or prevent the development and introduction of one or more of Sogous currently planned and any future new products and services. There are constant innovations in the market regarding search services, search and search-related advertising, and providing information to users. If Sogou is unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if Sogou is unable to modify its products and services on a timely basis, Sogou may lose users. Sogous operating results will also suffer if its innovations are not responsive to the needs of its users, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market. As search technology continues to develop, there may be offered in the China market products and services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by Sogous search services. As worldwide focus on the development of AI technologies has intensified, it has become increasingly important to apply AI technologies to online search products and features in order to attract and retain users, and we cannot be sure that Sogou will be able to apply such technologies successfully. Sogous competitors may develop and offer new products, services, and features that are similar to Sogous and may introduce them to the market before Sogou can, and such new offerings from its competitors may be found by users to be more attractive than Sogous. Moreover, we cannot be sure that any of Sogous new products, services, and features will attract additional users and lead to the generation of incremental revenue. As users increasingly use mobile devices to access search services and other Internet services in China, Sogou will need to continue to design, develop, promote, and operate new products and services tailored for mobile devices. Sogous design and development of new products and services that are optimized for mobile devices may not be successful. Sogou may encounter difficulties with the installation and delivery of such new products and services, and they may not function smoothly. As new mobile devices are released or updated, Sogou may encounter problems in developing and upgrading its products and services for the new releases and updates, and Sogou may need to devote significant resources to such development and upgrades. If Sogou is not successful in adapting its offerings for mobile devices as described above, maintenance and growth of its business will be impeded. 76 Table of Contents If Sogous collaboration with Tencent is terminated or curtailed, Sogous business and prospects for growth will be adversely affected. Sogou has extensive collaboration with Tencent, one of its largest shareholders. Sogou Search is the default general search engine in various Tencent products that provide general search offerings, such as Mobile QQ Browser, qq.com , and the PC Web directories daohang.qq. com and hao.qq.com . Approximately 38% of Sogous total search traffic, measured by page views, was contributed by Tencents Internet properties in June 2017. Sogou Weixin Search is currently the sole general search engine with access to all content published on Weixin Official Accounts, but it is possible that Tencent will grant such access to other general search engines. We cannot assure you that Sogou will be able to maintain the current level of cooperation with Tencent in the future. If Sogous collaborative relationship with Tencent is terminated or curtailed due to Tencents initiating its own general search service or partnering with other search engine companies, or if any of the commercial terms were to be revised or made less favorable to Sogou, or if Tencent does not continue to deliver to Sogou an adequate level of access to its platforms or adequately promote Sogous products and services, Sogous business and prospects will be adversely affected. Sogous efforts to expand its collaboration with Tencent may not be successful. Since October 2017, Tencent has been testing, on a trial basis and for purposes of assessment, the integration of Sogou Search into Weixin/WeChat. With this initiative, users of Weixin/WeChat can use Sogou Search as a general search function within Weixin/WeChat to access Internet information outside Weixin/WeChat. Sogou is working closely with Tencent on product testing and optimization and intend to discuss commercial arrangements upon the completion of the trial stage. However, we cannot assure you that product testing will be successful or that Sogou will be able to reach agreement with Tencent as to commercial terms that would apply to such an integration. If the integration of Sogou Search into Weixin/WeChat is not successful or, even if it is successful, if Sogou is unable to agree with Tencent as to commercial terms and Tencent terminates the integration, Sogou will lose the potential to expand its user base by offering general search services in Weixin/WeChat to its users, which would have an adverse impact on Sogous prospects for growth. In addition, although Tencent has agreed that Sogou Search will be offered as the default general search engine for Tencent products that offer general search functions, such agreement will terminate as to Weixin/WeChat (and as to Tencent products other than Mobile QQ Browser and PC Web navigation products) after September 2018, rather than 2023, if Tencent is able to demonstrate that offering Sogou Search as the default general search engine will harm the user experience. It is difficult for us to predict the potential impact of the inclusion of Sogou Search as the default general search engine in Weixin/WeChat measured under the standard of harm the user experience. Even if Sogous general search engine is integrated into Weixin/WeChat, the potential for growth of Sogous business through such integration will be limited if Tencent does not make Sogou Search the default general search engine and a Tencent search engine or a search engine of one of Sogous competitors is given priority over Sogous in Weixin/WeChat. Sogous existing business and its expansion strategy depend on certain additional key collaborative arrangements, and any inability to maintain or develop such relationships could have an adverse effect on Sogous business and prospects for growth. Sogous existing business, and its strategy for developing its business, involve maintaining and developing various types of collaborations with third parties, which provide it with access to additional user traffic, search services, products, and technology. For example, Sogous Wise Doctor delivers healthcare information, and receives healthcare data, through partnerships that provide Sogou with access to articles written by physicians and to a PRC-government sponsored healthcare encyclopedia; Sogous partnership with Zhihu provides Sogou with access to a knowledge-sharing platform; Sogous partnership with Microsofts Bing provides Sogou with the technology to provide its users with English content on the Internet that Sogou translates to Chinese in connection with its cross-language search service; and Sogous partnership with China Literature enables its users to access literature from a large online collection. In addition, Sogous various partnerships with third-party Internet properties provide its advertisers significant exposure to users beyond its core search user base. We consider these collaborations to be important to Sogous ability to deliver attractive service, product, and content offerings to its users, in order to maintain and expand its user and advertiser bases, and we believe that it will continue to be important for Sogou to develop similar partnerships in the future. Sogous inability to maintain and grow such relationships could have an adverse impact on its existing business and its growth prospects. Sogou also has existing, and hopes to develop additional, relationships with mobile device manufactures for pre-installation of its search, input method, and related applications. If Sogou is unable to maintain and expand such relationships, the quality and reach of delivery of its services will be adversely affected, and it may also be difficult for Sogou to maintain and expand its user base and enhance awareness of its brand. In addition, Sogous competitors may establish the same relationships as those Sogou has, which would tend to diminish any advantage Sogou might otherwise gain from these relationships. 77 Table of Contents If Sogou fails to maintain and expand its collaborations with third-party operators of Internet properties, its revenues and growth may be adversely affected. Sogou places certain of its advertisers promotional links on the Internet properties of third parties, thereby expanding the base of users accessing the advertisements beyond Sogous own user base, and increasing Sogous pay-for-click revenues. If these third parties decide to use a competitors or their own online search services, or do not prominently display Sogous advertisements in comparison to those of other advertisers on their properties, or if Sogou fails to attract additional third-party operators of Internet properties, its advertising revenues and growth may be adversely affected. Sogou may not be able to sustain its historical growth. Sogou has grown significantly over a relatively short period. Sogous total Web search page views grew by 22.3%, and its mobile Web search page views grew by 47.0%, on an annualized basis from December 2015 to December 2017. Sogous revenues grew from US$591.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, to US$660.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, and to US$908.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. However, Sogous 2016 revenues were affected by tightened PRC regulation of the online advertising industry during 2016, which had an adverse impact on the search and search-related advertising market in China in general. See Risks Related to Chinas Regulatory and Economic EnvironmentPRC regulations relating to sponsored search have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on Sogous results of operations. Sogou may not be able to sustain a rate of growth in future periods similar to that Sogou experienced in the past, and Sogous revenues may even decline. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of Sogous future financial and operating performance. Sogou depends on online advertising for a significant majority of its revenues. If Sogou fails to retain existing advertisers or attract new advertisers for its online advertising services, its business and growth prospects could be harmed. Sogou earns most of its revenues from its search and search related advertising services. Advertisers will not use Sogous services if they do not find them to be effective in producing a sufficient volume of click-throughs and desired results for advertisers. Sogous advertisers are generally able to terminate their relationships with it at any time without penalty if they are not satisfied with its services, choose its competitors for similar services, or advertise in media channels other than Internet search. Therefore, it could be difficult for Sogou to maintain or increase its advertiser base, and its revenues and profits could decline or fail to increase. Sogou relies on third-party advertising agencies for most of its online advertising revenues. Sogou relies heavily on third-party advertising agencies for its sales to its advertisers. It is important that Sogou maintain good relationships with these agencies. Sogou does not enter into long-term agreements with any of the advertising agencies and we cannot be sure that Sogou will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. Further, Sogou provides various types of discounts and rebates to advertising agencies in order to incentivize them to maximize the volume of advertising business that they bring to Sogou. In order to retain or properly incentivize Sogous advertising agencies, it may become necessary in the future for Sogou to increase the levels of such rebates and discounts, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. If Sogou fails to maintain and enhance awareness of and loyalty to its brand, it will be difficult for Sogou to maintain and increase its user and advertiser bases. It is critical for Sogou to maintain and further enhance its brand if Sogou is to succeed in expanding its user and advertiser bases. Sogous success in promoting and enhancing its brand, and its ability to remain competitive, will depend on its success in delivering superior user experience and on its marketing efforts. Enhancing Sogous brand awareness may require substantial marketing and promotion expenses. If Sogou is unable to maintain and enhance its brand, or incur significant marketing and promotion expenses that do not achieve anticipated business growth, or is subject to negative publicity that harms its brand, Sogous business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Sogous success depends on the continuing efforts of its senior management team and key employees, and Sogous business may be harmed if Sogou loses their services. Sogous business heavily depends upon the services of its key executives, particularly Xiaochuan Wang, its Chief Executive Officer. If any of Sogous key executives is unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, joins a competitor, or forms a competing company, Sogous business may be severely disrupted. Although executive officers have entered into employment agreements, confidentiality agreements, and non-competition agreements with Sogou, the degree of protection afforded to an employer pursuant to confidentiality and non-competition undertakings by persons employed in the PRC may be more limited when compared to the degree of protection afforded with respect to employees in some other jurisdictions. Sogou does not maintain key-man life insurance for any of its key executives. 78 Table of Contents Sogou also relies on key highly-skilled personnel for its business. Given the competitive nature of the industry, and in particular Sogous competitors increasingly aggressive efforts to provide competitive compensation packages to attract talent in the markets where Sogou operates, it may be difficult for Sogou to recruit and retain qualified personnel, and the risk of members of Sogous key staff leaving it is high. Any such departure could have a disruptive impact on Sogous operations, and if Sogou is unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel, it may not be able to grow effectively. Sogous strategy of investments in and acquiring complementary businesses and assets may fail, which could result in impairment losses. In addition to organic growth, Sogou may take advantage of opportunities to invest in or acquire additional businesses, services, assets or technologies. However, Sogou may fail to select appropriate investment or acquisition targets, or Sogou may not be able to negotiate optimal arrangements, including arrangements to finance any acquisitions. Acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into Sogou could require significant management attention and could result in a diversion of resources away from Sogous existing business. Investments and acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, increased leverage, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential liabilities of the acquired business, and the invested or acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results Sogou expects. Moreover, the costs of identifying and consummating these transactions may be significant. In addition to obtaining the necessary corporate governance approvals, Sogou may also need to obtain approvals and licenses from relevant governmental authorities for the acquisitions to comply with applicable laws and regulations, which could result in increased costs and delays. Requirements of U.S. GAAP regarding the recognition of share-based compensation expense may adversely affect Sogous results of operations and its competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Sogous performance is largely dependent on talented and highly-skilled individuals. Sogous future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate, and retain highly-skilled personnel. Sogou has a history of using low or nominally-priced employee share options as an important component of competitive pay packages, in order to align Sogous employees interests with those of Sogou and its shareholders and to encourage quality employees to join and remain with Sogou. Sogou has adopted guidance on accounting for share-based compensation that requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, Sogous operating results contain charges for share-based compensation expense related to employee share options. The historical and future recognition of share-based compensation in Sogous statements of comprehensive income has had and will have an impact on its results of operations. On the other hand, if Sogou alters its employee share incentive plans to minimize the corresponding share-based compensation expense, it may limit Sogous ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain its employees, and it may adversely affect Sogous operations. In addition, there may be future changes in the U.S. GAAP requirements for recognition of share-based compensation expense, which could have similar effects on Sogous results operations and its competitiveness in the market for key employees. Sogous user metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measuring its operating performance, which may harm its reputation. Sogou regularly reviews MAU, DAU, number of advertisers, page views, and other operating metrics to evaluate growth trends, measure its performance, and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data, have not been validated by an independent third party, and may not be indicative of Sogous future financial results. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how Sogous platforms are used across a large population in China. For example, Sogou may not be able to distinguish individual users who have multiple accounts. Errors or inaccuracies in Sogous metrics or data could result in incorrect business decisions and inefficiencies. For instance, if a significant understatement or overstatement of active users were to occur, Sogou might expend resources to implement unnecessary business measures or fail to take required actions to remedy an unfavorable trend. If partners or investors do not perceive Sogous user, geographic, or other operating metrics to accurately represent Sogous user base, or if Sogou discovers inaccuracies in its user, geographic, or other operating metrics, its reputation may be harmed. We have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of data, estimates, and projections in this annual report that Sogou obtained from third party sources, and such information involves assumptions and limitations. 79 Table of Contents Certain facts, forecasts, and other statistics relating to the industries in which Sogou competes contained in this annual report have been derived from various public data sources and commissioned third-party industry reports. In connection with our preparation of this annual report, Sogou commissioned iResearch to conduct market research concerning the online search and AI industries in China, and Sogou also referred to market research reports of IDC that Sogou had previously commissioned concerning the same industries in the United States. In deriving the market size of these industries, these industry consultants may have adopted different assumptions and estimates for certain metrics, such as MAU. While we generally believe such reports to be reliable, neither we nor Sogou has independently verified the accuracy or completeness of such information. Such reports may not be prepared on a comparable basis or may not be consistent with other sources. Industry data and projections involve a number of assumptions and limitations. Industry data and market share data should be interpreted in the light of the defined industries in which Sogou operates. Any discrepancy in the interpretation of such data could lead to different measurements and projections, and actual results could differ from the projections. Sogou may not be able to prevent others from making unauthorized use of its intellectual property, which could harm Sogous business and competitive position. We regard Sogous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property as critical to its business. Unauthorized use of Sogous intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect its business and reputation. Sogou relies on a combination of intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements to protect its proprietary rights. It is often difficult to register, maintain, and enforce intellectual property rights in the PRC. Statutory laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and enforcement and may not be applied consistently due to the lack of clear guidance on statutory interpretation in the PRC. In addition, contractual agreements may be breached by counterparties, and there may not be adequate remedies available to it for any such breach. Accordingly, Sogou may not be able to effectively protect its intellectual property rights or to enforce its contractual rights in China. Policing any unauthorized use of Sogous intellectual property is difficult and costly and the steps Sogou has taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of its intellectual property. In the event that Sogou resorts to litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of its managerial and financial resources. We can provide no assurance that Sogou will prevail in such litigation. In addition, Sogous trade secrets may be leaked or otherwise become available to, or be independently discovered by, its competitors. Pending or future litigation could have an adverse impact on Sogous financial condition and results of operations. The online search industry in China is highly competitive and litigious. From time to time, Sogou has been, and may in the future be, subject to lawsuits brought by its competitors, individuals, or other entities against it. Sogou is currently involved in several lawsuits in PRC courts where its competitors instituted proceedings or asserted counterclaims against it and Sogou instituted proceedings or asserted counterclaims against its competitors. For example, there are various legal proceedings currently pending between Sogou and Baidu in which Sogou alleges that Baidus input method infringes certain of Sogous patents relating to Sogou Input Method and seeks monetary damages, while Baidu has asserted in counterclaims or in legal proceeding that Baidu has initiated against Sogou that Sogou Input Method infringes certain of Baidus patents, and seeks monetary damages. In addition, Sogou is subject to ongoing unfair competition claims against it brought by Baidu, UCWeb, and Qihoo 360 Technology Co., Ltd., or Qihoo360, separately, in which they allege that certain functions of Sogou Input Method unfairly divert users to Sogou, and seek monetary damages and cessation of the alleged unfair competitive practices. Where Sogou can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation against it and determine that an adverse liability resulting from such litigation is probable, Sogou records a related contingent liability. As additional information becomes available, Sogou assesses the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of Sogous estimates may be inaccurate, in which case Sogous financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. In addition, the outcomes of actions Sogou institutes may not be successful or favorable to it. Lawsuits against Sogou may also generate negative publicity that significantly harms its reputation, which may adversely affect its user and advertiser base. In addition to the related cost, managing and defending litigation and related indemnity obligations can significantly divert Sogous managements and Board of Directors attention from operating its business. Sogou may also need to pay damages or settle lawsuits with a substantial amount of cash. While we do not believe that any currently pending proceedings are likely to have a material adverse effect on Sogous business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, if there were adverse determinations in legal proceedings against Sogou, Sogou could be required to pay substantial monetary damages or adjust its business practices, which could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations, and cash flows. 80 Table of Contents Sogou is currently subject to, and in the future may from time to time face, intellectual property infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend, and could have an adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations, particularly if Sogou is required to pay significant damages or cease offering any of its products or curtail any key features of its products. We cannot be certain that the products, services and intellectual property used in Sogous normal course of business do not or will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Sogou currently is, and may in the future be, subject to claims and legal proceedings relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of its business, and may in the future be required to pay damages or to agree to restrict its activities. See Pending or future litigation could have an adverse impact on Sogous financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if Sogou is found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, Sogou may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, may be ordered to pay damages, and may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. Sogou may incur substantial expense in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against Sogou may result in substantial monetary liability or may materially disrupt the conduct of its business by restricting or prohibiting its use of the intellectual property in question. Sogou may not have exclusive rights to technology, trademarks, and designs that are crucial to its business. Sogou has applied for various patents relating to its business. While Sogou has succeeded in obtaining some patents, some of its patent applications are still under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of its patent applications are subject to determinations by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant overseas authorities that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. In addition, Sogou has applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of its Sogou logos and other of its key trademarks in the PRC, and the corresponding Chinese versions of the trademarks, so as to establish and protect its exclusive rights to these trademarks. While Sogou has succeeded in registering the trademarks for most of these marks in the PRC under certain classes, the applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of some marks and/or of some of trademarks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, and relevant overseas authorities. Approvals of Sogous initial trademark registration applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC and relevant overseas authorities that there are no prior rights in the applicable territories. We cannot assure you that these patent and trademark applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect Sogous rights to the affected technology, marks, and designs. In addition, even if these applications are approved, we cannot assure you that any issued patents or registered trademarks will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of Sogous rights. If Sogous search results contain information that is inaccurate or harmful to its users, its business and reputation may be adversely affected. Sogou could be exposed to liability arising from its search results listings if information accessed through its services contains errors, and third parties may make claims against it for losses incurred in reliance on that information. Investigating and defending such claims could be expensive even if they did not result in liability, and Sogou does not carry any liability insurance against such risks. In addition, if users do not perceive information that they access through Sogous search services to be authoritative, useful, and trustworthy, Sogou may not be able to retain these users or attract additional users, and its reputation, business, and results of operation may be harmed. In addition, if such content contains inaccuracies, it is possible that users will seek to hold Sogou liable for damages, because Sogou provides links to such content, even though such content is provided by third parties and any negative publicity regarding the accuracy of such content could harm its reputation, and reduce user traffic. In addition, any negative publicity or incident involving Sogous peer companies could have an adverse impact on its industry as a whole, which in turn could harm its reputation and reduce its user traffic. For example, in early 2016 it was widely reported that an unsuccessful experimental cancer treatment had been promoted in a sponsored search listing on third partys Internet property. Even though Sogous search results listings were not involved, we believe that the broad negative publicity surrounding the incident adversely affected the reputation of the online search industry in China in general with an adverse impact on Sogous user traffic and results of operations in 2016. Sogou may be subject to regulatory investigations and sanctions for inappropriate or illegal content that is accessed through its search results. The online search industry in China is subject to extensive regulation. If content accessed through Sogous search services includes information that PRC governmental authorities find illegal or inappropriate, Sogou may be required to curtail or even shut down its search services, and Sogou may be subject to other penalties. Although Sogou seeks to prevent fraudulent or otherwise illegal or inappropriate websites and information from being included in its search results, such measures may not be effective. 81 Table of Contents Sogou may be subject to potential liability for claims that search results violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. It is possible that content that is made available by Sogou through its search results may violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. PRC laws and regulations are evolving, and uncertainties exist with respect to the legal standards for determining the potential liability of online search service providers for search results that provide links to content on third-party websites that infringes copyrights of third parties. In December 2012, the Supreme Peoples Court of the PRC promulgated a judicial interpretation providing that PRC courts will place the burden on Internet service providers to remove not only links or content that has been specifically-mentioned in notices of infringement from persons and entities claiming copyright in such content, but also links or content that the providers should have known contained infringing content. This interpretation could subject Sogou to significant administrative burdens and might expose it to civil liability and penalties. Further, Sogou relies on content provided by professional researchers and writers, either developed by the outlets themselves or adapted from content of parties separate from such outlets, and it is difficult for Sogou to fully monitor such content, which could make Sogou more vulnerable to potential infringement claims. Sogou may be subject to legal liability associated with online activities on its platforms. Sogou hosts and provides a wide variety of products and services that enable advertisers to advertise products and services, and users to exchange information and engage in various online activities. Sogou may be subject to claims, investigations, or negative publicity relating to such activities. PRC laws and regulations relating to the liability of providers of online products and services for activities of their users are undeveloped, and their current and future reach are unclear. Sogou also places advertisements on third-party Internet properties, and Sogou offers products and services developed or created by third parties. Sogou may be subject to claims concerning these products and services based on its involvement in providing access to them, even if Sogou does not offer the products and services directly. Sogou could be required to spend considerable financial and managerial resources defending any such claims, and they could result in Sogous having to pay monetary damages or penalties or ceasing certain aspects of its business, which could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Privacy concerns or security breaches relating to Sogous platforms could damage its reputation, deter current and potential users and advertisers from using its products and services, and expose Sogou to legal penalties and liability. Sogou collects, processes, and stores on its servers significant amounts of data concerning its users. While Sogou has taken steps to protect its user data, its security measures could be compromised, because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, and Sogou may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, Sogou is subject to various regulatory requirements relating to the security and privacy of such data, including restrictions on the collection and use of personal information of users and steps Sogou must take to prevent personal data from being divulged, stolen, or tampered with. Regulatory requirements regarding the protection of such data are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change, making the extent of Sogous responsibility in that regard uncertain. For example, the Internet Security Law became effective in June 2017, but it is unclear as to the circumstances and standard under which the law would apply and violations would be found, and there are great uncertainties as to the interpretation and application of the law. It is possible that Sogous data protection practice is or will be inconsistent with regulatory requirements. See Government Regulation and Legal UncertaintiesMiscellaneousLaws and Regulations Related to Consumer Protection and Privacy Protection Privacy Protection. Complying with such requirements could cause Sogou to incur substantial expenses or to alter or change its practice in a manner that could harm its business. Any systems failure or compromise of Sogous security, including through employee error, that results in the release of its user data could seriously harm its reputation and brand, impair its ability to retain and attract users and advertisers, expose it to liability to users whose data is released, and subject it to sanctions and penalties from governmental authorities. Sogou also could be liable for any security breaches of its advertisers confidential information. Any security breaches exposing such information could damage Sogous reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using its services. Sogous network operations may be vulnerable to hacking and viruses, which may reduce the use of its products and services and expose it to liability. Sogous user traffic may decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. Hacking involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware, or other computer equipment. Techniques used by hackers to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, which means that Sogou may be unable to anticipate new hacking methods or implement adequate security measures. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in Sogous service. Sogou may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect its Internet platforms against hackers, and measures Sogou may take may not be effective. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose Sogou to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, as well as damage its reputation and decrease its user traffic. 82 Table of Contents Sogous business may be adversely affected by third-party software applications or practices that interfere with its receipt of information from, or provision of information to, its users, which may impair its users experience. Sogous business may be adversely affected by third-party software applications, which may be unintentional or malicious, that make changes to its users PCs or mobile devices and interfere with its products and services. These software applications may change Sogous users experience by hijacking queries, altering or replacing its search results, or otherwise interfering with its ability to connect with its users. Such interference can occur without disclosure to or consent from users, and users may associate any resulting negative experience with Sogous products and services. Such software applications are often designed to be difficult to remove, block, or disable. Further, software loaded on or added to mobile devices on which Sogous search or other applications, such as Sogou Input Method, are pre-installed may be incompatible with or interfere with or prevent the operation of such applications, which might deter the owners of such devices from using Sogous services. In addition, third-party website owners, content providers, and developers may implement applications and systems that interfere with Sogous ability to crawl and index their webpages and content, which is critical to the operation of its search services. If Sogou is unable to successfully prevent or limit any such applications or systems that interfere with its products and services, or if a significant number of third-party website owners, content providers, and developers prevent Sogou from indexing and including their webpages and content in its search results, Sogous ability to deliver high-quality search results and a satisfactory user experience will be impeded. Adoption of Internet advertisement blocking technologies may have an adverse impact on Sogous business and results of operations. The development of software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a users screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. Since Sogous advertising revenues are generally based on user click-throughs, the expansion of advertisement-blocking on the Internet may decrease its advertising revenues, because when advertisements are blocked they are not downloaded from the server, which means such advertisements will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on or through Sogous sites because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking measures. In addition, increasing numbers of browsers include technical barriers designed to prevent Internet information service providers such as Sogou to track the browsing history of their Internet users, which is also likely to adversely affect the growth of online advertising and hence Sogous business and growth prospects. If Sogou fails to detect click-through fraud, it could lose the confidence of its advertisers and its revenues could decline. Sogous business is exposed to the risk of click-through fraud on its paid search results. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks paid search results for a reason other than to view the underlying content of search results. If Sogou fails to detect significant fraudulent clicks or otherwise is unable to prevent significant fraudulent activity, the affected search advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in its pay-for-click services and lose confidence in the integrity of its pay-for-click service systems, and Sogou may have to issue refunds to its advertisers and may lose their future business. If this happens, Sogou may be unable to retain existing advertisers and attract new advertisers for its pay-for-click services, and its search revenues could decline. In addition, affected advertisers may also file legal actions against it claiming that Sogou has over-charged or failed to refund them. Any such claims or similar claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and costly for Sogou to defend against and could also adversely affect its brand and its search advertisers confidence in the integrity of its pay-for-click services and systems. Web spam and content farms, as well as Sogous attempts to block them, could decrease the quality of its search results, and could deter its current and potential users from using its products and services. The proliferation of search engine spam websites, commonly referred to as Web spam, which attempt to manipulate search indexing to cause them to appear higher in search results ranking hierarchies than they would without such manipulation, can have the effect of weakening the integrity of Sogous search results and causing users to lose confidence in its search products and services. Content farm websites, which commission very large amounts of content, often of low quality, for the purpose, similar to that of Web spam, of causing such content farms links to obtain relatively high ranking in Internet providers search results, can have similar adverse effects. While Sogou uses, and continually improves, technology designed to detect and block Web spam, the algorithms Sogou applies may nevertheless result in excessive filtering that blocks desirable websites from its search results. Therefore, both the existence of Web spam and content farms, and Sogous attempts to block them, could deter its current and potential users from using its products and services. In addition, as some of Sogous third-party Internet-property collaborators could include Web spam or content farm websites, its advertising revenues could be reduced by its efforts to filter such websites. If Sogous efforts to combat these and other types of index spamming are unsuccessful, its reputation for delivering relevant information could be diminished. This could result in a decline in user traffic, which would damage Sogous business. 83 Table of Contents The successful operation of Sogous business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Sogous growth will depend in part on the PRC government and state-owned telecommunications services providers maintaining and expanding Internet and telecommunications infrastructure, standards, protocols, and complementary products and services to facilitate Sogous reaching a broader base of Internet users in China. Almost all access to the Internet in China is maintained through China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. Sogou relies on this infrastructure and China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced aggressive plans to develop the national information infrastructure, this infrastructure may not be developed and the Internet infrastructure in China may not be able to support the continued growth of Internet usage. In addition, Sogou will be unlikely to have access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis, if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. Interruption or failure of Sogous information technology and communications systems may result in reduced user traffic and harm to its reputation and business. Interruption or failure of any of Sogous information technology and communications systems or those of the operators of third-party Internet properties with which it collaborates could impede or prevent its ability to provide its search and search-related services. In addition, Sogous operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events. Sogous disaster recovery plan for its servers cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, hacking, and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, Sogou may experience a partial or complete system shutdown. Furthermore, Sogous servers, which are hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of Sogous systems are not fully redundant, and its disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an Internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of Sogous services, or increases the response time of its services, could have an adverse impact on its users experience and reduce its users satisfaction, its attractiveness to users and advertisers, and future user traffic and advertising on its platform. Furthermore, Sogou does not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of its services, Sogou may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of its Internet platforms to mirror its online resources. Sogou faces risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics, or terrorist attacks. Sogous business could be adversely affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, landslides, and tsunamis, outbreaks of health epidemics such as an outbreak of avian influenza; severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS; Zika virus; or Ebola virus, as well as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or social instability. If any of these occurs, Sogou may be required to temporarily or permanently close and its business operations may be suspended or terminated. 84 Table of Contents Risks Related to Chinas Regulatory and Economic Environment PRC regulations relating to sponsored search have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on Sogous results of operations. On April 13, 2016, the SAIC and sixteen other PRC government agencies jointly issued a Notice of Campaign to Crack Down on Illegal Internet Finance Advertisements and Other Financial Activities in the Name of Investment Management , or the Campaign Notice, pursuant to which a campaign was conducted between April 2016 and January 2017 targeting, among other things, online advertisements for Internet finance and other financial activities posted on online search portals such as Sogous. The CAOC, issued the Interim Measures for the Administration of Online Search , or the CAOC Interim Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2016 and require that providers of online search services verify the credentials of pay-for-click advertisers, specify a maximum percentage that pay-for-click search results may represent of results on a search page, and require that providers of search services conspicuously identify pay-for-click search results as such. The SAIC issued the Interim Measures for the Administration of Online Advertising , or the SAIC Interim Measures, which became effective on September 1, 2016 and treat pay-for-click search results as advertisements subject to PRC laws governing advertisements, require that pay-for-click search results be conspicuously identified on search result pages as advertisements and subject revenues from such advertisements to a 3% PRC tax that is applied to advertising revenues. In order to comply with these regulations, Sogou has established more stringent standards for selecting advertisers for its pay-for-click services and has turned down certain existing advertisers, and has lowered the percentage that pay-for-click search results represent of results on its search pages, which had an adverse impact on Sogous search and search-related revenues and overall results of operations for 2016 and, along with the tax on advertising, are likely to continue to have such an impact. We cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not issue new laws or regulations specifically regulating sponsored search services, which could further impact Sogous revenues. Risks Related to Changyou.com Limited Risks Relating to Changyous Business and Industry Overall Risks The markets for Changyous products and services are evolving rapidly and significantly, which makes evaluating its business and prospects difficult. Changyous three primary businesses are the online game business; the platform channel business, which consists primarily of online advertising; and the cinema advertising business. Changyous businesses and the industries in which it operates are evolving rapidly. Changyou was incorporated on August 6, 2007 in the Cayman Islands and began its online game business as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Sohu.com Inc. In 2007 Sohu transferred all of its PC game business to Changyou. In 2011 Changyou acquired 7Road and began generating Web game revenues. In 2012, Changyou began to develop and operate mobile games, but did not begin to generate any significant revenues from mobile games until late in 2014 when Changyou launched TLBB 3D; and in May 2017, Changyou launched another in-house developed mobile game, Legacy TLBB, which is operated by Tencent Holdings Limited, or Tencent, under license from Changyou. In August 2015, as revenues from Changyous Web games Wartune and DDTank had begun to decline, Changyou sold 7Roads operating entity, and as a result Changyou has no remaining significant Web games in operation or development. In 2011, Changyou began to expand into the platform channel business with its acquisition from Sohu of the 17173.com Website, which operates Changyous online advertising business. In December 2013, Changyou acquired RaidCall, which operates free social communication software; and in July 2014 Changyou acquired a majority interest in MoboTap Inc., or MoboTap, a Cayman Islands company that operates the Dolphin Browser. However, Changyous acquisitions of RaidCall and MoboTap were not successful, as expected synergies did not materialize. In 2011, Changyou acquired the entities that operate its cinema advertising business. Changyous cinema advertising business experienced strong growth in 2016 and 2017 and has become a significant part of Changyous overall business, but Changyou may not be able to sustain that growth. Changyous past successes in its online games business with PC games may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate its current business and prospects, as game players increasingly migrate from personal computers to mobile devices to access online games and the relative popularity of PC games continues to decline. In response to such rapid migration, Changyou has devoted and Changyou expects to continue to devote substantial resources to the development of its mobile games as a critical component of its business strategy. However, Changyous mobile games strategy has not been proven, and presents very different challenges from those presented in the past by its operation of PC games and Web games. Despite the early success of Changyous mobile game TLBB 3D after Changyou introduced it in late 2014 and of Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB after Changyou launched it in May 2017, the popularity of, and the revenues generated from, TLBB 3D declined through 2017, and we cannot assure you that Legacy TLBB will continue to be popular and profitable. We cannot be certain that Changyou will be successful in its efforts to launch additional mobile games that generate sufficient revenues and income to sustain or grow Changyous mobile game business. 85 Table of Contents You should also consider additional risks and uncertainties that may be experienced by companies operating in a rapidly developing and evolving industry. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to Changyous ability to: raise Changyous brand recognition and game players loyalty; develop, license or operate new games that are appealing to game players; adapt to new trends and game player tastes; meet Changyous expected timetables for their launch; and, if they are successful, have acceptably long lifespans and result in an acceptable level of profit for Changyou; successfully adapt to evolving business models, industry trends and market environments by developing and investing in new business strategies, products, services and technologies, including, in particular, virtual reality, or VR, technology, for Changyous new games; arrange for its mobile games to be distributed through popular mobile application stores with commercial terms, including revenue-sharing arrangements, that are favorable enough to Changyou and allow it to achieve an acceptable level of profit from the games; integrate new technologies, businesses and personnel of acquired entities, and generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of such acquisitions; maintain or expand Changyous marketing efforts to attract more game players to its games and to the game information portal of the 17173.com Website in a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive business environment, and generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of such marketing efforts; and reverse the recent decline in Changyous revenues from the 17173.com Website, particularly in view of the rapid emergence of mobile games and the decline in the relative popularity of PC games and Web games as users increasingly switch to mobile devices; and successfully expand Changyous marketing efforts to attract advertisers to place advertisements in pre-film advertising slots that it purchases from operators of movie theaters, which are critical to Changyous ability to recoup its significant upfront payments and committed payments under Changyous contracts with the operators of movie theaters. If Changyou does not adapt its business to address these risks and uncertainties, its ability to continue its past success or to expand its business in the future is likely to be impeded. Changyous business may not succeed in a highly competitive market. Competition in the online game market in China is becoming increasingly intense. Changyou competes primarily with other online game developers in China, including Tencent and NetEase.com, Inc. Many of Changyous competitors have, or may over time be able to gain, competitive advantages over Changyou in terms of: greater financial and technical resources; more aggressive and effective strategies for hiring talent for game development, which may make it difficult for Changyou to retain its existing employees and attract new employees, which are necessary for Changyou to be able to grow its business; substantially greater financial resources and more effective methods for acquiring exclusive license rights to the titles, characters, themes and story lines of popular works in order to adapt online games from such works (which has become increasingly important for new online games to be successful); more aggressive and effective marketing strategies for promoting their online games and penetrating the mobile game market; and more capability for developing and releasing new software for mobile devices to attract a growing number of game players that access Internet products and services through mobile devices. The 17173.com Website derives revenue primarily from providing online advertising services to advertisers that develop, operate and distribute PC games. As the market demand for PC games continues to decline, the 17173.com Website faces intense competition, particularly from mobile application stores and other Internet platforms through which game players access mobile games, for advertising business targeting online players of mobile games. Changyou competes with other game information portals, such as duowan.com, operated by YY Inc., and game.qq.com, operated by Tencent Holdings Limited, and other Internet portals which have, or may over time be able to build, competitive advantages over Changyou in terms of: greater brand recognition among game players and advertising clients; larger user and customer bases; more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; 86 Table of Contents more attractive mobile versions of their game information portals and more extensive mobile game-related products and services, such as mobile game discussion forums, in response to the rapid migration of users of Internet services from PCs to mobile devices such as tablets and mobile phones, and the unique preferences and demands of mobile users and mobile game players; and substantially greater financial and technical resources. Changyous cinema advertising business generates revenues through contracts that Changyou enters into with advertisers to place their advertisements in pre-film advertising slots that Changyou purchases from operators of movie theaters. Changyou competes with Focus Media Group, Wanda Group and other companies selling pre-film advertisement slots to advertisers. These competitors in general, and Wanda Group in particular, have, and may be able to build further, competitive advantages over Changyou arising from their having significantly greater financial resources, greater brand recognition among operators of movie theaters and advertisers and more capable and effective sales and marketing forces and strategies than Changyou does. Wanda Group has a particular competitive advantage over Changyou as Wanda Group itself is one of the largest operators of movie theaters in China. Therefore, it is beneficial for Wanda Group to expand its own cinema advertising business together with the expansion of its self-operated movie theaters. In addition, Wanda Group is competing with Changyou for advertising slots in other movie theaters that Wanda does not own or operate, which may force Changyou to increase its bidding prices for such advertising slots, which may impair Changyous ability to compete effectively in those markets. In order to compete effectively in the PRC, as well as in the worldwide market, Changyou must continue to invest in research and development, to enhance its technology and its existing games, advertising and other services, and to introduce new game products and services in order for it to adapt to industry trends and shifting demands of game players and advertising clients and to remain competitive. If Changyous products and services are not responsive to the needs of its game players and advertisers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities, or are not effectively brought to market, or if its competitors are more successful than Changyou is in developing compelling products or in attracting and retaining game players and advertisers, Changyou may not be able to compete effectively. Changyous business could suffer if Changyou does not successfully manage any future growth. Changyou experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion through 2013 that placed strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. In addition, to accommodate any future growth, Changyou anticipates that it will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including procedures and controls, and improvement of its accounting and other internal management systems and security systems related to the foregoing, all of which require substantial management efforts and financial resources. Changyou will also need to continue to train, manage and motivate its workforce, and manage its relationships with its third-party operators, distributors and service providers and its game player base. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. Changyou may not be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its operations, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its business strategy. Changyou may not be able to avoid slowing growth or declines in its revenues, or future losses. Changyous revenues grew significantly in a relatively short period of time prior to 2014, but its revenue growth stalled in 2014 and 2015, and revenues decreased in 2016. Primarily due to the commercial success of TLBB, Changyous revenues grew from $623.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $737.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. However, Changyous revenues increased only slightly to $755.3 million and to $761.6 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015; and Changyous revenues decreased to $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Although Changyous revenues increased from 2016 to $580.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, largely due to the early success of its mobile game Legacy TLBB, they remained below Changyous revenues for 2013, 2014, and 2015. Even if Changyous revenues increase in future years, Changyou is not likely to experience rates of revenue growth in the future similar to those that it experienced prior to 2014. Changyou suffered a net loss attributable to Changyou.com Limited of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Changyous net income attributable to Changyou.com Limited was $212.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, but decreased to $144.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and to $108.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Changyou also may experience declines in its revenues or suffer net losses in the future due to a number of factors, including, among other things, expected continued declines in TLBBs, Legacy TLBBs and TLBB 3Ds revenues; the uncertain level of popularity of Changyous future games, uncertainty as to Changyous ability to develop and launch high-quality mobile games that are commercially successful; the relatively higher game development and distribution costs generally associated with mobile games; the need to expend greater amounts in order to develop or acquire new games, technologies, assets, and businesses; and uncertainty as to Changyous ability to integrate such newly acquired games, technologies, assets and businesses. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of Changyous future financial and operating performance. 87 Table of Contents Changyous previous and any future acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on its ability to manage its business and may also result in impairment charges. Changyou has made acquisitions of, and may potentially acquire in the future, technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to its business and/or enter into strategic alliances in order to leverage its position in the China market and expand its business domestically and internationally. Such acquisitions or strategic alliances may expose Changyou to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technologies, businesses and personnel including its continued reliance on the management teams of the acquisition targets to operate the acquired businesses, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from its existing business, and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and strategic alliance process may have an adverse effect on Changyous ability to manage its business. In addition, acquired businesses may not perform to Changyous expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or key clients, and Changyous strategic focus may change. As a result, Changyou may not realize the benefits it anticipated. If Changyou fails to integrate acquired technologies, businesses and assets or realize the expected benefits, Changyou may not receive a return on its investment and its transaction costs for such acquisitions. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits, which could adversely affect its business and operating results. Acquisitions could result in contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill and/or intangible assets, which could adversely affect Changyous results of operations. For example, in December 2013, Changyou acquired RaidCall with the expectation of generating benefits from synergies with Changyous online game business; in November 2013 Changyou acquired Beijing Doyo Internet Technology Co., Ltd., or Doyo, with the expectation of generating benefits from synergies with Changyous online advertising business, and in July 2014 Changyou acquired MoboTap, which operates the Dolphin Browser, with the expectation of generating benefits from synergies with Changyous platform channel business. In 2014 Changyou recognized a $33.8 million impairment loss for goodwill and a $15.3 million impairment loss for acquired intangible assets related to RaidCall, in 2015 Changyou sold Doyo and recognized a $1.9 million impairment loss for goodwill; in 2015 Changyou recognized a $29.6 million impairment loss for goodwill and an $8.9 million impairment loss for acquired intangible assets relating to the MoboTap business; and in 2017 Changyou recognized a further $83.5 million impairment loss for goodwill and a $3.4 million impairment loss for intangible assets relating to the MoboTap business, as a result of Changyous managements conclusion that the expected synergies would not materialize. Changyou is dependent upon its management and upon its key development and technical personnel; and Changyous business may be disrupted if it loses the services of any of them. Changyous future success depends substantially on the services of the members of its management and its key development and technical personnel, such as Changyous Chief Executive Officer Dewen Chen and its key game development personnel. If one or more of the members of Changyous management or key development or technical personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, Changyou might not be able to replace them easily, or at all. If any of the members of Changyous management or its key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, not only would Changyou lose know-how, key professionals, staff members and suppliers, but such members of Changyous management and key employees could develop and operate games and other services that could compete with and take game players and users away from its existing and future business. Although each of these members of Changyous management and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with non-competition provisions, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. Changyous prospects for growth may be adversely affected if Changyou cannot successfully manage and make timely adjustments to its hiring needs to support its business strategies. The Internet industry in China is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, particularly for game developers and related technical personnel, and Changyous success in the implementation of its growth strategies depends on Changyous ability to successfully manage, and make timely adjustments to, its hiring needs. The number of Changyous employees decreased by 41.9% in 2015, by 13.0% in 2016, and by 13.0% in 2017, as Changyou emphasized the development of mobile games and laid off a number of employees who had been focused primarily on international markets and the platform channel business. These layoffs could have an adverse effect on Changyous remaining employees morale and their loyalty to Changyou, and cause Changyou to lose employees whose talent and experience are important for its business, and could also have a negative impact on its reputation as an employer and its ability to attract qualified employees in the future. Laid-off employees could also make claims against Changyou for additional compensation, causing Changyou to incur additional expense. 88 Table of Contents Changyou may not have exclusive rights to trademarks, designs and technologies that are crucial to its business. Changyou has applied for initial registrations in the PRC and overseas, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers of its key trademarks in the PRC, including ChangYou.com, cyou.com, TLBB, TLBB logos, New Blade Online, 17173, TLBB 3D and the corresponding Chinese versions of the marks, so as to establish and protect its exclusive rights to these trademarks. Changyou has succeeded in registering the trademarks ChangYou.com, cyou.com, TLBB, TL logos, 17173 and Dolphin Browser in the PRC under certain classes. The applications for initial registration, and/or changes in registrations relating to transfers, of other marks and/or of some of these marks under other classes are still under examination by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry & Commerce of the PRC, or the SAIC, and relevant authorities overseas. Changyou has applied for patents relating to the design of its games and to technology intended to enhance the functionalities of its games. Changyou has various patent applications under examination by the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. Approvals of Changyous initial trademark registration applications, and/or of changes in registrations relating to such transfers, or of Changyous patent applications are subject to determinations by the Trademark Office of the SAIC, the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC and relevant authorities overseas that there are no prior rights in the applicable territory. Changyou cannot be certain that these applications will be approved. Any rejection of these applications could adversely affect Changyous rights to the affected marks, designs and technologies. In addition, even if these applications are approved, Changyou cannot assure you that any registered trademark or issued patent will be sufficient in scope to provide adequate protection of its rights. Changyou may need to incur significant expenses to enforce its proprietary rights, and if it is unable to protect such rights, its competitive position and financial performance could be harmed. Changyou regards its intellectual property and proprietary rights as critical to its success. In particular, Changyou has spent a significant amount of time and resources in developing its current games and possible future games. Changyous ability to protect its proprietary rights in connection with its games is critical for their success and Changyous overall financial performance. While Changyou has registered software in China for copyright protection and has taken various measures to protect its source codes, such measures may not be sufficient to protect its proprietary information and intellectual property. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as they are in the United States and other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. In addition, while Changyou has registered some trademarks relating to its games in the PRC and other jurisdictions, and has applied for additional registrations of trademarks, in some instances Changyou may not succeed in obtaining registration of trademarks that it has applied for in different languages, such as English. We cannot assure that these pending or future trademark applications will be approved. Any failure to register trademarks in any country or region may limit Changyous ability to protect its rights in such country or region under relevant trademark laws, and Changyou may need to change the name of the relevant trademark in certain cases, which may adversely affect Changyous branding and marketing efforts. Despite Changyous efforts to protect its intellectual property, online game developers may copy Changyous ideas and designs, and other third parties may infringe Changyous intellectual property rights. For example, certain third parties have misappropriated the source codes of previous versions of TLBB and have set up unauthorized servers in China and elsewhere to operate TLBB to compete with Changyou. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from Changyous games and may result in decreases in Changyous revenues. Any measures Changyou takes in response may not be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. Litigation relating to intellectual property rights may result in substantial costs to Changyou and diversion of resources and management attention away from its business, and may not be successful. In addition, Changyous ideas and certain of its designs, if not fixed in a tangible form of expression or registered with the appropriate PRC authorities, may not be protected by patents or other intellectual property rights. As a result, Changyou may be limited in its ability to assert intellectual property rights against online game developers who independently develop ideas and designs that compete with Changyou. Changyou may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to it, could subject it to significant liabilities and other costs. Changyous success depends largely on its ability to use and develop its technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against Changyou. Changyou is subject to additional risks if entities licensing to it intellectual property, including, for example, game source codes, do not have adequate rights in any such licensed materials. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property of game development and technology involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses and, therefore, tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against it, Changyou will have to defend itself in litigation or administrative proceedings, which can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of Changyous technical and management personnel. An adverse determination or settlement in any such litigation or proceedings to which Changyou may become a party could subject it to significant liability to third parties, or require it to seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, or redesign its games or subject it to injunctions prohibiting the development and operation of its games. 89 Table of Contents Risk Related to Online Games There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which Changyou derives most of its revenues, is a rapidly evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of Changyous games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Changyous future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond Changyous control, including: whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games on console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; growth in users of the Internet and broadband and penetration in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games, and the rate of any such growth; whether recent declines in the use of personal computers and growth in users of mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets in general, and for purposes of accessing online games in particular, continue or accelerate in China and other markets in which Changyou offers its games; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; and general economic conditions in China, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in Chinas economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2012 and from 2014 through 2017. There is no assurance that online games in general will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. If the current decline in the popularity of PC games continues or accelerates as users increasingly switch to mobile devices, Changyous revenues from its PC games may decrease significantly; and if the PC games that Changyou has launched, or expects to launch in the future, are not successful, Changyou may not be able to recoup the investments in its development and marketing of those games. Changyou currently depends on TLBB for a significant portion of its revenues, and continued decrease in the popularity of TLBB or interruption in its operation will adversely affect Changyous results of operations. Changyou currently relies on TLBB for a significant portion of its revenues. Changyou launched TLBB in May 2007 and, despite Changyous efforts to improve TLBB, its game players have nevertheless lost interest in it over time as the relative popularity of PC games (which are accessed through personal computers) continues to decline and TLBBs popularity, revenues and profitability have continued to decline. See Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. To prolong TLBBs lifespan and slow down the pace of its decline, Changyou needs to continually improve and update it on a timely basis with new features, including enhanced social interaction features, that appeal to existing game players, attract new game players (including those who played earlier versions of TLBB), and improve player stickiness to the game. If Changyou fails to improve and update TLBB on a timely basis, or if its competitors introduce more popular games, including mobile games, catering to its game player base, the decline in TLBBs popularity can be expected to accelerate, which would cause Changyous revenues to decrease at a faster pace. Furthermore, if there are any interruptions in TLBBs operation due to unexpected server interruptions, network failures or other factors, game players may be prevented or deterred from making purchases of virtual items, which could also cause significant decreases in Changyous revenues. The market demand for PC games in general, and for the PC games that Changyou operates in particular, can be expected to continue to decline and the number of game players of PC games can be expected to continue to decrease, which will have an adverse effect on Changyous online game business and prospects. 90 Table of Contents A significant portion of Changyous online game revenues are generated from its PC games, and from TLBB in particular. However, the popularity of PC games continues to decline and an increasing number of online game developers are delaying or suspending their plans to develop and launch new PC games, as game players increasingly switch to mobile devices to access online games. It has become increasingly difficult for PC game developers and operators to retain existing players of their games and the number of game players who are willing to spend time and money to play new PC games continues to decrease. If this downward trend accelerates, it may make it increasingly difficult for Changyous existing PC games in general, and TLBB in particular, to slow the decline in their popularity and for Changyous new PC games to ever become commercially successful; the game player base of Changyous PC games in general, and of TLBB in particular, may shrink at a more rapid pace, which would accelerate and increase Changyous costs to acquire and retain players of its PC games and would have a negative impact on its online game revenues. In addition, Changyous PC games generally produce relatively higher profit margins for it than do its mobile games, because Changyou must distribute its mobile games through third-party mobile game distributors or mobile application stores and enter into revenue-sharing arrangements with such distributors or mobile application stores. Accordingly, any decrease in Changyous revenues from its PC games may have a relatively larger negative impact on its overall profits. As mobile devices such as tablets, mobile phones and other devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access online games, Changyou must continue to acquire or develop increasing numbers of mobile games that work on such devices. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and tablets, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets. We believe that, for its business to be successful, Changyou will need to continue to develop versions of its existing games and any future games that work well with such devices. The games that Changyou develops for such devices may not function as smoothly as its existing games, and may not be attractive to game players in other ways. In addition, manufacturers of such devices may establish restrictive conditions for developers of applications to be used on such devices, and as a result Changyous games may not work well, or at all, on such devices. As new devices are released or updated, Changyou may encounter problems in developing versions of its games for use on such devices and Changyou may need to devote significant resources to the development, support, and maintenance of games for such devices. Since 2014 Changyou has been investing, and it expects to continue to invest, significant amounts in the development, promotion and operation of games for mobile devices. If Changyou is unable to successfully expand the types of devices on which its existing and future games are available, or if mobile versions of games that Changyou develops for such devices do not function well or are not attractive to users and game players; if, as Changyou expects will occur over time, the popularity and revenues of Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB decline; or if other mobile games that Changyou has launched, or expects to launch in the future, are not successful, Changyou may not be able to maintain or increase its revenues and recoup its investments in the mobile market. Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB is currently generating a significant portion of its revenues. Changyou increasingly relies on dominant third-party game distributors and operators that obtain licenses from it to market, distribute, and operate its mobile games, including Legacy TLBB, which is operated by Tencent under a license from it. If Changyou is not able to establish and maintain collaborative relationships with Tencent and other dominant third-party game distributors and operators for its existing and future mobile games, it is likely that Changyou will not be able to maintain or expand its mobile game business. Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB has been generating a significant portion of Changyous revenues since Legacy TLBBs launch in May 2017. Changyou increasingly relies on dominant third-party game distributors and operators with large user bases, leading big data analytical capabilities, and track records and experience with successful operation of mobile games to operate its mobile games. For example, Tencent, which is an Internet conglomerate with a very large user base and is a dominant game developer and distributor in China, is the exclusive operator and distributor of Legacy TLBB under license from Changyou, and shares with Changyou the revenues generated by the game. For the year ended December 31, 2017, revenues from Legacy TLBB were $139.5 million, accounting for approximately 31% of Changyous online game revenues and approximately 24% of its total revenues. If Tencent terminates the current licensing arrangements with Changyou for Legacy TLBB or curtails Tencents marketing efforts to promote Legacy TLBB, or if Changyou is not able to establish and maintain collaborative relationships with other dominant game distributors and operators in China for its existing and future mobile games on commercial terms that are acceptable to Changyou, it will be difficult for Changyou to maintain or expand its mobile game business. In addition, Changyou relies on Tencent and other third-party operators to collect payments from game players for their purchases of virtual items in Changyous mobile games, and to pay to Changyou the pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts, and there is usually a delay between the time of a game players purchase and the time when the operator pays Changyou, which has placed, and may continue to place, constraints on Changyous cash flow. Changyous business will suffer if it is unable to develop successful high-quality games for mobile devices, expand its game portfolio with a variety of genres that are appealing to game players, monetize mobile games that Changyou develops, or acquire and maintain for a reasonable period the popularity and revenue levels of any of Changyous mobile games that are successful. 91 Table of Contents Developing high-quality games for mobile devices is an important component of Changyous online game strategy. Chinas mobile games market recently has been dominated by a small number of high quality games, which collectively generate a substantial majority of the total revenues and profits of all mobile games in the market. Changyou has devoted and Changyou expects to continue to devote substantial resources to the development of its mobile games, focusing on those that Changyou believes have the potential to become high-quality games. Despite the early success of Changyou mobile game Legacy TLBB, we cannot guarantee that Changyou will be able to develop additional high-quality games that appeal to players or, even if Changyou is able to develop high-quality games that are successful, that such games will have lifespans that are long enough to generate an acceptable level of revenues, as mobile games tend to have relatively shorter lifespans than PC games. In addition, Changyou may encounter difficulty in integrating features into games developed for mobile devices that a sufficient number of players will pay for, or in otherwise sufficiently monetizing mobile games. As the mobile-device market in China is saturated or near saturation, mobile-game developers and operators have increasingly devoted substantial resources to the expansion of their mobile-game portfolios with a variety of genres, such as MMORPGs, multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) games, or first person shooter (FPS) games, that are appealing in the mobile game market, in order to acquire and retain game players and maintain or increase revenues from the games. However, Changyou has not been successful in the development of mobile games other than those in the MMORPG genre. If Changyou is unable to develop successful high-quality games and expand its game portfolio with games in a variety of genres that are in line with market trends, or implement successful monetization strategies for its mobile games in general, its ability to maintain or grow revenues will be adversely affected. Changyous ability to successfully develop and monetize games for mobile devices will depend on its ability to: expand the portfolio of mobile games, and particularly high quality games, in a variety of genres that Changyou develops in-house and licenses from third-party developers; effectively develop new mobile games for multiple mobile operating systems and mobile devices; anticipate and effectively respond to the growing number of players switching to mobile games, the changing mobile landscape and the interests of players; attract, retain and motivate talented game designers, product managers and engineers with experience in developing games for mobile devices; minimize launch delays and cost overruns on the development of new games; effectively monetize mobile games without degrading the social game experience for its players; develop games that provide for a compelling and optimal user experience through existing and developing third-party technologies, including third-party software and middleware utilized by its players; and acquire and successfully integrate high- quality mobile game assets, personnel, and companies. Further, even if Changyou develops or acquires license rights to a mobile game that is successful, the games lifespan may be short, as even successful mobile games tend to have less sustained user loyalty than do successful PC games. For example, the revenues generated from Changyous mobile game TLBB 3D, which was launched in October 2014, declined sequentially through 2017, which is typical for a mobile game. In addition, although a relatively large number of the mobile games available at any given time may be low-quality games that attract fewer game players than do high-quality games, such games may on an aggregate level have the effect of attracting away a significant number of game players who would otherwise play high-quality mobile games. In view of the uncertain lifespans of mobile games and the large quantity of mobile games competing for game players, it is necessary for Changyou to make considerable investments in order to have a number of mobile games, and particularly mobile games that have the potential to become high-quality hit games, in its pipeline. If Changyou is unable to develop or acquire new mobile games in general, and high quality games in particular, that are successful, or to maintain for a reasonable period the popularity and revenue levels of any mobile games that Changyou develops or acquires that are successful, Changyou may not be able to recoup its development and acquisition costs and its ability to expand its business in the future is likely to be impeded. We believe that the chance of success for online games is improved if they are adapted from the titles, characters, themes, and story lines of popular works of Chinese and foreign authors. However, there are many risks and uncertainties related to obtaining the rights to adapt such works for online games, and Changyous games adapted from such works may not be successful. 92 Table of Contents We believe that, in order for many of the new online games that Changyou develops to be successful in China, it is important for it to obtain license rights, and preferably exclusive license rights, to adapt the titles, characters, themes and story lines of popular works for use in the games. For example, Changyou developed and it operates its PC game TLBB and its mobile games Legacy TLBB and TLBB 3D with various features that are included in reliance on rights under its existing license agreements with the Chinese martial arts author Louis Cha with respect to his popular novel Tian Long Ba Bu. We believe that these features have had a critical role in attracting and retaining many of the players of TLBB, Legacy TLBB, and TLBB 3D. However, it can be difficult to identify a sufficient number of such works that are suitable for adaptation for use in online games, and Changyou faces significant competition for the rights to such works from other online game companies that also adapt their online games from popular works. Obtaining license rights, and particularly exclusive license rights, to adapt suitable works for use in online games can involve significant expense, as the license fees, and the percentage of revenues from the games adapted from such works, payable to authors have continued to rise as competition for such license rights has intensified. In addition, Changyou has previously obtained, and intends to continue to seek to obtain, license rights for works from certain authors in foreign countries, and its ability to obtain such rights has previously been, and may be in the future be, adversely affected by greater scrutiny of such works, and a stricter approval process for permission to obtain such rights, by relevant Chinese authorities compared to the scrutiny of and approval process applicable to domestic works. Even if Changyou obtains license rights for works, we cannot assure you that games that Changyou adapts from such works will be popular and commercial successes and that Changyou will be able to recoup the amounts it pays for the license rights. Obtaining such rights and adapting such works for mobile games present additional risks, because of the relatively short lifespans of mobile games. Moreover, after the expiration of the terms of Changyous existing license agreements with Mr. Cha and other holders of copyrights, Changyou may not be able to renew the agreements with commercial terms that are favorable to it, if at all. Changyous inability to renew such agreements could force it to discontinue the related online games, and have a significant adverse impact on its online game operations and revenues. Changyou may not be able to distribute its mobile games through its desired Internet platforms, its profits from any successful mobile games can be expected to be relatively lower than the profits Changyou has enjoyed historically from PC games and its mobile game revenues are subject to additional risks as Changyou relies on mobile application stores to collect payments from players of its mobile games. Changyou may not be able to arrange for its mobile games to be distributed through its desired popular third-party mobile application stores with commercial terms, including revenue-sharing arrangements that are favorable enough to it to allow it to achieve an acceptable level of profit from the games. Changyous profits from mobile games, even if the games are successful, are likely to be relatively lower than the profits it generates from PC games, because, in order to gain access for its games on mobile application stores, Changyou must enter into revenue-sharing arrangements that generally result in lower profit margins than those generated from its PC games. Due to market competition and pressures, only a handful of third-party mobile application stores and other game distribution channel providers have survived and, of the remaining providers, an even smaller number of key providers, including Tencent and Mobile Hardcore Alliance, collectively control a substantial share of the market. As a result, Changyou has reduced leverage and weaker bargaining power in business negotiations with game distribution channel providers, which may lead to Changyou being forced to agree to receiving relatively low revenue-sharing percentages for many of its mobile games. Changyou relies on mobile application stores to collect payments from game players for their purchases of its virtual items and to pay to Changyou pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. If mobile application stores cease to offer Changyous games over their platforms, change their user payment policies, such as return policies, or fail to make revenue-sharing payments that are due to Changyou, Changyous revenues will be adversely affected. When Changyou distributes its games through smaller, less well-known application stores, Changyou may not receive revenue-sharing payments when they are due to it. In addition, the iOS-based mobile application store allows game players to use foreign currency to purchase virtual items or game points in Changyous games, and the store pays to Changyou pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts after converting the foreign-currency denominated revenues from such purchases into RMB using an exchange rate effective at the time of the payment. Since there is usually a delay between the time of a game players purchase and the time when the store pays Changyou, if the foreign currency used has depreciated against the RMB during the delay Changyou will receive lower share-sharing amounts at the time of the payment than Changyou would have received if the payment had been made at the time of the game players purchase. Changyous new mobile games will be less likely to be successful if Changyou cannot adopt and implement innovative and effective marketing strategies to attract attention to its games from game players in its targeted demographic groups. 93 Table of Contents A relatively large number of mobile games are typically available at any given time in the markets in which Changyou launches and operates its mobile games, and such games compete for attention from the same game player population that it targets. Changyous ability to successfully promote and monetize its mobile games will depend on its ability to adopt and effectively implement innovative marketing strategies, and particularly precision marketing through new media, such as Weibo, WeChat, bilibili.com Website and other online game forums, targeting potential mobile game players in general, and game players in specific demographic groups for certain games in particular, and Changyous ability to cross-market mobile games to players of its current PC games and mobile games. For example, Changyou previously relied heavily on top-game lists published by the iOS-based mobile application store to market its mobile games. That store has recently ceased publishing such lists, and Changyou has not identified or developed other effective marketing strategies to promote those games, which Changyou believes has had an adverse effect on the popularity of the affected games. If Changyou fails to adopt and implement such marketing and cross-marketing strategies, or if the marketing strategies of Changyous competitors are more innovative and effective than Changyous, its mobile games will be less likely to be successful and as a result Changyou may not be able to achieve an acceptable level of revenue from those games. Changyous development and operation of mobile games may be adversely affected by the promulgation of new, and the implementation and interpretation of existing, PRC laws and regulations affecting mobile games. As mobile games are a relatively new type of online game in China, developers and operators of mobile games, including Changyou, have been facing increasingly intense regulatory scrutiny from PRC regulatory authorities regarding the development and operation of mobile games. Substantial uncertainties exist regarding the timing of the promulgation of, and any changes to, current and future PRC laws and regulations and the effect of the interpretation and implementation thereof, which may, among other things: have an adverse impact on the way Changyou designs its games and game features, which may make the games less attractive to game players; have an adverse impact on Changyous ability to achieve an acceptable level of revenues and profit from its mobile games; make it harder to access Changyous mobile games and cause a decrease in its player base; increase the cost of the development and operation of Changyous mobile games; and require substantial management attention and effort in monitoring the development of, and ensuring Changyous compliance with, existing and future PRC laws and regulations affecting the mobile games business. For a discussion of the risks associated with PRC laws and regulations affecting online games in general and mobile games in particular, see Risks Related to Doing Business in China in this Item 3 of this annual report. Changyous new games may attract game players away from its existing games. With Changyous increasingly diversified game portfolio, we cannot assure you that players of Changyous existing games will not be attracted to play other newly launched games, including its new mobile games. If this occurs, it will decrease Changyous existing games player bases, which could in turn make these games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from its existing games. For example, revenues generated from Changyous mobile game TLBB 3D decreased significantly in the second quarter of 2017, and we believe that this may have been due in part to the launch of Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB in May 2017. Game players who switch from playing Changyous existing games to its new games may also spend less money to purchase virtual items in its new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing Changyous existing games, resulting in an adverse effect on its overall revenues. In addition, game players switching from playing Changyous existing PC games to its new mobile games, as well as from its in-house developed games to its licensed games, could cause Changyous overall online game profits to be relatively lower, as its profits from mobile games and licensed games tend to be relatively lower as a result of revenue-sharing arrangements. Changyou relies on recorded data for game revenue recognition and tracking of game players consumption patterns of virtual items. If its data systems fail to operate effectively, such failure will affect the completeness and accuracy of its revenue recognition, and also its ability to design and improve virtual items that appeal to game players. 94 Table of Contents Changyous game operation revenues are generated through the direct online sale of game points and sale of its prepaid game cards, and its recognition of those revenues depends on such factors as whether the virtual items purchased by game players are considered consumable or perpetual. Changyous revenue recognition policy with respect to perpetual virtual items is based on its best estimate of the lives of the items. Changyou considers the average period that paying players typically play its games and other player behavior patterns to arrive at its best estimate of the lives of these perpetual items. However, given the fast-evolving nature of the game industry and the various types of online games that Changyou offers to players with different tastes and preferences, its estimate of the period that players typically play its games may not accurately reflect the actual lives of these perpetual virtual items. Changyou revises its estimates as it gain operating data, and it attempts to refine its estimation process accordingly. Any future revisions to these estimates could adversely affect the time period during which Changyou recognizes revenues from these items. For example, an increase in the estimated lives of these perpetual virtual items would increase the period over which revenues from these items are recognized. Changyou relies on its data systems to record and monitor the purchase and consumption of virtual items by its game players and the types of virtual items purchased. If its data systems fail to accurately record the purchase and consumption information of the virtual items, Changyou may not be able to accurately recognize its revenues. In addition, Changyou relies on its billing systems to capture such historical game player behavior patterns and other information. If such information is not accurately recorded, or if Changyou does not have sufficient information due to the short operating history of any of its games, Changyou will not be able to accurately estimate the lives of, or the estimated average period the game players play its games with respect to, the perpetual virtual items, which will also affect its ability to accurately recognize its revenues from such perpetual virtual items. If Changyous data systems were damaged by system failure, network interruption, or virus infection, or attacked by a hacker, the integrity of data would be compromised, which could adversely affect its revenue recognition and the completeness and accuracy of its recognized revenues. In addition, Changyou relies on its data systems to record game player purchase and consumption patterns, based on which Changyou improves its existing virtual items and designs new virtual items. For example, Changyou intends to increase development efforts on the number and variety of virtual items that its game players like to purchase, and Changyou may also adjust prices accordingly. If its data systems fail to record data accurately, its ability to improve existing virtual items or design new virtual items that are appealing to its game players may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect its revenues. Changyou could be liable for breaches in the security of its online payment platforms and those of third parties with whom Changyou transacts business, and any such breaches could cause its customers to lose confidence in the integrity of the payment systems that Changyou uses. Currently, Changyou sells a substantial portion of its virtual game points and prepaid game cards to its game players through third-party online payment platforms. In these online transactions, secure transmission of confidential information, such as customers credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks is essential if Changyou is to maintain its consumers confidence in it. In addition, Changyou expects that an increasing amount of its sales will be conducted over the Internet as a result of the growing use of online payment systems. As a result, the risk of associated online crime will increase. Changyous current security measures and those of the third-party online payment platforms with whom Changyou transacts business may not be adequate. Changyou must be prepared to increase its security measures and efforts so that its game players have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that it uses, which will require Changyou to incur additional expense. Such increased security measures may still not make its online payment systems completely safe. In addition, Changyou does not have control over the security measures of its third-party online payment vendors. Breaches in the security of online payment systems that Changyou uses could expose it to litigation and liability for failing to secure confidential customer information, and could harm its reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage customers to purchase virtual items. Any failure of third-party developers of online games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with them to fulfill their obligations under Changyous license or joint operation agreements with them could have an adverse effect on Changyous operation of and revenues from those games. Changyou derives an increasing portion of its revenues from PC games and mobile games that Changyou licenses from, or jointly develops with, third-party developers. Under its license and joint development agreements for these games, Changyou relies on the third-party developers to provide game updates, enhancements and new versions, provide materials and other assistance in promoting the games and resolving game programming errors and issues with bots and other intrusions. Any failure of third-party developers to provide game updates, enhancements and new versions in a timely manner and that are appealing to game players, provide assistance that enables Changyou to effectively promote the games, or otherwise fulfill their obligations under Changyous license and joint development agreements could adversely affect the game-playing experience of Changyous game players, damage its reputation, or shorten the life-spans of those games, any of which could result in the loss of game players, acceleration of Changyous amortization of the license fees it has paid for those games, or a decrease in or elimination of its revenues from those games. 95 Table of Contents Furthermore, for games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with third parties, Changyou may not have access to the game source codes during the initial period of the license, or at all. Without the source codes, Changyou has to rely on the licensors to provide updates and enhancements, giving it less control over the quality and timeliness of updates and enhancements. If Changyous game players are not satisfied with the level of services they receive, they may choose to not play the games. There are additional risks associated with Changyous licensing from overseas developers of online games that are successful only in particular overseas markets, because such games may not be successful in the China market and other markets if Changyou is not able to successfully customize the games to adapt to differences in culture and user preferences in the China market and other markets. Changyou receives relatively lower profits from the operation of online games that it licenses from or jointly develops with third-party developers. Changyous revenue-sharing arrangements for games that Changyou licenses from or jointly develops with third-party developers provide Changyou with relatively less profit than games that Changyou develops in-house, and in some cases Changyou may not be able to recoup its investments in such games. Moreover, to secure the rights to games from third-party developers, Changyou often must pay up-front fees and also commit to pay additional fees in the future. Changyou also has invested in mobile game development studios in order to assure access to an extensive pipeline of mobile games. Changyou often must make such commitments and investments without knowing whether the games Changyou is licensing or jointly developing will be successful and generate sufficient revenues to enable Changyou to recoup its costs or for the games to be profitable. Changyou faces significant risks and incurs substantial costs when it licenses its games to, or jointly operates them with, third-party operators, and Changyou faces additional risks and costs when it directly operates its games or licenses its games to, or jointly operates its games with, third-party operators in overseas markets. Changyou currently, and expects to continue to, exclusively license to, or jointly operate with, third-party operators some of its games, including an increasing number of its mobile games, in markets that Changyou selects, including overseas markets. Changyou faces significant risks associated with the licensing or joint operation of Changyous games, including: difficulties in identifying appropriate markets; difficulties in identifying, negotiating and maintaining good relationships with licensees or joint operators who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively operate Changyous games in, particular markets; difficulties in maintaining Changyous reputation and the reputation of its games when its games are operated by licensees or joint operators pursuant to their own standards; and difficulties in protecting Changyous intellectual property. Changyou currently licenses and operates, and expects to continue to expand the licensing and operation of, some of its existing and future games, either directly or jointly with third-party operators, in selected overseas markets. Additional risks associated with the licensing or direct or joint operation of Changyous games overseas include: difficulties and significant costs in protecting Changyous intellectual property in overseas markets; difficulties in retaining and maintaining local management and key development and technical personnel who are experienced and knowledgeable about, and can effectively operate Changyous games in, particular markets; uncertainties relating to Changyous ability to develop its games and/or expansion packs catering to particular overseas markets; uncertainties relating to Changyous ability to renew its license and joint operation agreements with licensees and joint operators upon their expiration; for Changyous direct operation of its games overseas, interruptions in the operation of the games due to cross-border Internet connection or other system failures; significant costs for translation of its games into the local languages of, or customization of its games for, the overseas markets in which Changyou plans to license or jointly operate its games; limited choices of third-party Internet platforms to distribute Changyous mobile games in certain overseas markets; significant marketing costs to promote Changyous games in certain overseas markets where third-party Internet platforms do not include marketing services as part of the revenue-sharing arrangements; different game player preferences in certain overseas markets; difficulties and significant costs relating to compliance with the different legal requirements and commercial terms, such as game export regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, in the overseas markets in which Changyou licenses or directly or jointly operates its games; 96 Table of Contents exposure to different regulatory systems governing the protection of intellectual property and the regulation of online games, the Internet and the export of technology; costs for compliance with different legal requirements and commercial terms in overseas markets; difficulties in verifying revenues generated from Changyous games by its licensees for purposes of determining royalties payable to Changyou; difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems; changes in the political, regulatory or economic conditions, or public policy, affecting online games in particular foreign countries or regions; the risk that regulatory authorities in foreign countries or administrative regions may impose withholding taxes, or place restrictions on repatriation of Changyous profits; and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If Changyou is unable to manage these risks and control these costs effectively, its ability to license or operate its games in China or in regions and countries outside of Mainland China, either directly or jointly with third-party joint operators, may be impaired. Changyou may not be successful in operating and improving its games to satisfy the changing demands of game players. Changyou depends on purchases and continual consumption of virtual items by its game players to generate revenues, which in turn depend on the continued attractiveness of its games to the game players and their satisfactory game-playing experience. Various issues could arise that would cause its games to be less attractive to its game players or could limit the continued attractiveness of its games. For example: Changyou may fail to provide game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements in a timely manner due to technological or resource limitations, or other factors; Changyous game updates, expansion packs and new versions may contain programming errors, and their installation may create other unforeseen issues that adversely affect the game-playing experience; Changyou may fail to timely respond and/or resolve complaints from its game players; Changyou may fail to eliminate computer bots which can disrupt its games smooth operation and reduce the attractiveness of its games; and Changyous game updates, expansion packs and other enhancements may change rules or other aspects of its games that its game players do not welcome, resulting in a reduction in the active accounts or active paying accounts of its online games. Changyous failure to address these issues could adversely affect the game-playing experience of its game players, damage the reputation of its games, shorten the lifespans of its games, and result in the loss of game players and a decrease in its revenues. Changyou may fail to launch new games according to its timetable, and its new games may not be commercially successful. All online games have limited lifespans. Changyou must launch new games that can generate additional revenue and diversify its revenue sources in order to remain competitive. Changyou will not generate any meaningful revenue from a game in development until it is commercially launched after open beta testing, and we cannot assure you that Changyou will be able to meet its timetable for new game launches or that its new games will be successful. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, lack of sufficient game development capabilities, personnel and other resources, failure to obtain or delays in obtaining relevant governmental authorities approvals and adverse developments in Changyous relationships with the licensors or third-party operators of its new games could result in delayed launching of its new games or the cancellation of the development of its pipeline games. In addition, we cannot assure you that Changyous new games will be as well received in the market as TLBB, Legacy TLBB, and TLBB 3D have been, and you should not view Changyous historical game revenues or the success of TLBB, Legacy TLBB, and TLBB 3D as indications of the commercial success of any of its new or future games. Changyou may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends, new business models and changed game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, or fail to differentiate its new games from its existing games. If the new games Changyou introduces are not commercially successful, Changyou may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from new games to sustain or grow its revenues or to recover its product development costs and sales and marketing expenses, which can be significant. If Changyou acquires and pays for a license giving it the right to adapt an online game from an authors work, but does not complete the development and introduction into the market of the game, or Changyou introduces the game but it is not successful, Changyou may not be able to recover the license fees it has paid. 97 Table of Contents Changyou generates all of its game revenues under the item-based revenue model, which presents risks related to consumer preferences and regulatory restrictions. All of Changyous games, including PC games and mobile games, are operated under the item-based revenue model. Under this revenue model, Changyous game players are able to play the games for free, but are charged for the purchase of virtual items in the games. The item-based revenue model requires Changyou to design games that not only attract game players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase virtual items. The sale of virtual items requires Changyou to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially as to in-game consumption patterns. If Changyou fails to design and price virtual items so as to incentivize game players to purchase them, Changyou may not be able to effectively translate its game player base and their playing time into revenues. In addition, the item-based revenue model may cause additional concerns with PRC regulators who have been implementing regulations designed to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games and intended to limit the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players. A revenue model that does not charge for time played may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with these goals. The item-based revenue model may not continue to be commercially successful and in the future Changyou may need to change its revenue model to a time-based or other revenue model. Any change in revenue model could result in disruption of Changyous game operations, a decrease in the number of its game players and a decline in its revenues. Undetected programming errors or defects in Changyous games could harm its reputation and adversely affect its results of operations. Changyou makes frequent improvement and updates to its online games, which may contain bugs or flaws that become apparent only after the updated games are accessed by users, particularly as Changyou launches new updates under tight time constraints. If for any reason programming bugs or flaws are not resolved in a timely fashion, Changyou may lose some of its users, and third-party operators that license or jointly operate its games may seek to recover damages from it, which could have an adverse effect on Changyous results of operations, and could harm its reputation and the market acceptance of its games. Breaches in the security of Changyous server network, or cloud-based servers that it leases from third-party operators, could cause disruptions in its service or operations, facilitate piracy of its intellectual property, or compromise confidential information of its game players and its business. Changyou stores on its servers, including physical servers that Changyou owns or rent and cloud-based servers that Changyou leases from third-party operators, and transmits over the Internet considerable and continually increasing amounts of data, much of which is essential to the operation of its business and some of which is highly confidential information concerning its business and its game players. In addition, the expansion of Changyous business to include mobile games and its need to comply with PRC regulations requiring real-name registration of its game players are likely to cause the amount of personal data concerning its game players that is transmitted over its networks to increase over time. Any breaches by hackers of Changyous network or of cloud-based servers Changyou leases from third-party operators could cause severe disruptions in its game development and operations and other business activities, allow piracy of the source code used in the operation of its games and allow pirated versions of its games to enter the marketplace, or result in the release of confidential personal or financial information of its game players or confidential information concerning Changyous business, any of which could have an adverse impact on Changyous business, its revenues, and its reputation among game players. In order to minimize the likelihood of such breaches as Changyous business expands and the amount of confidential and sensitive data increases, we expect that Changyou will need to expend considerable resources to maintain and enhance the effectiveness of its security systems. Rapid technological changes may increase Changyous game development costs. Technological development in online game industry is evolving rapidly, so Changyou needs to anticipate new technologies and evaluate their possible market acceptance. For example, the use of VR technology has become prevalent in the industry, and an increasing number of game players hope to have VR included in online games that they access. Changyou has begun investing, and expects to continue to invest in the future, resources to develop VR technology and online games using VR technology. However, Changyou is not aware of any proven business or monetization model for online games using VR technology, and playing online games with VR technology generally requires devices with particularly high-level technical specifications, which may limit the number of players. If online games using VR technology that Changyou develops and launches are not well received by game players, Changyou may not be able to recoup its related development costs. In addition, government authorities or industry organizations may adopt new technical standards that apply to game development. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for PC game and mobile game development and operations and continuing professional training of Changyous development and technical personnel, and Changyou will need to adapt its business and prepare its workforce to cope with the changes and support these new services to be successful. If Changyou falls behind in adopting new technologies or standards, its existing games may lose popularity, and its newly developed games may not be well received in the marketplace. 98 Table of Contents The proliferation of cheating programs and scam offers that seek to exploit Changyous games and players harms the game-playing experience and may lead players to stop playing its games. Third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, cheating programs that enable players to exploit Changyous games, play the games in an automated way or obtain unfair advantages over other players who play fairly. These programs harm the experience of players who play fairly and may disrupt the economics of Changyous games. In addition, unrelated third parties may attempt to scam Changyous players with fake offers for virtual items. Changyou needs to devote significant resources to discover, disable and prevent such programs and activities, and if Changyou is unable to do so quickly its operations may be disrupted, its reputation may be damaged and players may stop playing its games. This may lead to lost revenue and increased costs for Changyou to develop technological measures to combat such programs and activities. Game players spending on Changyous games may be adversely affected by slower growth in the Chinese economy and adverse conditions in the global economy. Changyou relies for its revenues on the spending of its game players, which in turn depends on the players level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capabilities and willingness to spend. The real estate market in the PRC and the level of exports from the PRC have both experienced significant declines recently and, according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the growth rate of Chinas gross domestic product, compared to that of the previous year, went from 7.7% in 2013, to 7.4% in 2014, to 6.9% in 2015, to 6.7% in 2016, and to 6.9% in 2017. Such growth may also slow in the future, which could in turn result in a reduction in spending by Changyous game players. In addition, the global economy has experienced significant instability and there has been volatility in global financial and credit markets in recent years, recent growth in the United States economy may not be sustainable and some analysts are concerned that the European Community may experience a sustained downturn. It is unclear how long such instability and volatility will continue, whether it will increase, whether it will lead to a renewed worldwide economic downturn such as the one that began in 2008, and how much adverse impact such instability and volatility or any such downturn might have on the economies of China and other jurisdictions where Changyou operates its games. Any such instability, volatility or adverse impact in China or in overseas markets could cause Changyous game players to reduce their spending on its games in China or overseas and reduce its revenues. Risks Related to the Platform Channel Business Notwithstanding Changyous significant investment in its platform channel business, Changyou was unable to successfully monetize it beyond the operation of the 17173.com Website, and Changyou was not able to recoup all of its investment. Changyou may have similar adverse experiences with future investments. During 2013 and 2014 Changyou made significant investments in acquiring assets and marketing, including both domestic and overseas marketing, and spent considerable sums to increase its staffing levels, with the goal of expanding and promoting its platform channel business beyond the operation of the 17173.com Website. However, Changyou did not generate meaningful revenues from such additions to its platform channel business as its efforts to monetize those products and services were not successful, and Changyou does not expect to be able to make its platform channel business apart from the 17173.com Website profitable or to recoup the investments it made in assets, marketing and staffing for the platform channel business. For example, after Changyous acquisition of a majority interest in MoboTap, Changyous management concluded that the Dolphin Browser operated by MoboTap would not be able to provide expected synergies with Changyous platform channel business, and Changyou recognized substantial impairment charges as a result. Also see Changyous previous and any future acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on its ability to manage its business and may also result in impairment charges. Online advertising revenues from the 17173.com Website could fail to grow, or could decline further, as a result of the shift from PC games to mobile games in the online games market and uncertainties in the online advertising market. Changyous online advertising revenues of $25.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, which were mainly derived from the operation of the 17173.com Website, represented 4.3% of Changyous total revenues for the year, and represented a decline of $14.3 million, or 36%, from its online advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. Changyous ability to avoid further declines in, or grow, its online advertising revenues may be adversely affected by any of the following risk factors: Changes in government policy could restrict or curtail Changyous online advertising services; The decline in the demand for online advertising services from developers and operators of PC games, as the relative popularity of such games continues to decline; 99 Table of Contents Advertising clients may adopt new methods and strategies other than online advertising to promote their brands, which would have an adverse impact on Changyous advertising revenues; and The acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising have been widely accepted. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general, or through Changyous Websites. In addition, Changyous ability to generate and maintain significant online advertising revenues will also depend upon: the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertising clients; the development of successful mobile versions of the 17173.com Website and the provision of extensive mobile game-related products and services in response to the rapid migration of users of Internet services from PCs to mobile devices, such as tablets and mobile phones; the acceptance of online advertisements, either through PCs or mobile devices, as an effective method of business marketing; the effectiveness of Changyous advertising delivery, tracking and reporting systems; the extent of resistance from existing or potential customers to online advertising prices; and the development of new formats for online advertising, such as streaming video. The expansion of Internet advertisement blocking software may result in a decrease in advertising revenues. The development of Web software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a users screen may hinder the growth of online advertising. The expansion of advertisement blocking on the Internet may decrease Changyous revenues from the 17173.com Website because, when an advertisement is blocked, it is not downloaded from the server, which means that it will not be tracked as a delivered advertisement. In addition, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet or on Changyous 17173.com Website because of the use by third parties of Internet advertisement blocking software. Changyou relies on advertising agencies to sell online advertising services on the 17173.com Website. If current trends of consolidation of advertising agencies in the China market continue, the bargaining power of the large advertising agencies resulting from such consolidation may permit them to require that Changyou pay higher sales rebates, which would adversely affect Changyous online advertising revenues. Most of the online advertising services of the 17173.com Website are distributed by, and most of the online advertising revenues of the 17173.com Website are derived from, advertising agencies. For example, in 2017 Changyou engaged nine advertising agencies, which contributed approximately 99.6% of the online advertising revenues of the 17173.com Website. In consideration for these agencies services, Changyou is required to pay certain percentages of revenues as sales rebates. If the online advertising market is consolidated and effectively controlled by a small number of large advertising agencies, such advertising agencies may be in a position to demand higher sales rebates based on increased bargaining power, which could negatively affect Changyous online advertising growth, as Changyou books its online advertising revenue net of its sales rebates to advertising agencies. Risks Related to the Cinema Advertising Business There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the cinema advertising industry in China. Changyous cinema adverting business experienced strong growth in 2016 and 2017 and has benefited from robust growth in Chinas cinema and movie industry in recent years. If the recent growth in Chinas cinema and movie industry slows or the industry declines in the future, pre-film advertising slots are likely to become less attractive to advertisers, which would have an adverse effect on Changyous cinema advertising business. In addition, advertisers are increasingly turning to new advertising formats, such as video streaming, as Internet technology develops. If pre-film advertising becomes less attractive to advertisers than such new formats, Changyous cinema business will be adversely affected. Moreover, the rapid growth of Changyous cinema advertising business in recent years placed strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. Changyou may not be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its cinema advertising business, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its overall business strategy. 100 Table of Contents Changyou may not be able to successfully manage its growth in the highly competitive cinema advertising market. Changyou faces intense competition for the acquisition of the rights to and placement of pre-film advertising slots. See Changyous business may not succeed in a highly competitive market. Changyou may not be able to effectively compete with its competitors in developing, maintaining or expanding the types of cooperative relationships with operators of movie theaters that will permit it to maintain its existing rights or to obtain additional rights to pre-film advertisement slots at reasonable prices, on the one hand, and in attracting advertisers that will place their advertisements in the pre-film advertisement slots that it offers, on the other hand, as Changyous competitors may have greater financial resources, greater brand recognition among operators of movie theaters and advertisers and more capable and effective management, sales and marketing forces and strategies than it does, which would have an adverse impact on the prospect for growth of its cinema advertising business. Changyou faces risks related to its purchase of pre-film advertising slots. In order for Changyou to compete effectively in its desired markets, Changyou must continue to build and maintain a competitive reserve of pre-film advertisement slots in those markets and has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant upfront costs to acquire the pre-film advertising rights for such pre-film advertising slots under long-term contracts, typically with one to three year terms, with operators of various movie theaters, which has placed, and will continue to place, constraints on its cash flow. There is a risk that Changyou will lose those upfront acquisition costs, because Changyou is not able to generate corresponding revenues and begin to recoup the costs until it has both entered into contracts with advertisers for the pre-film advertising slots that it has acquired and displayed the advertisers advertisements in those slots. Such delay in generating corresponding revenues may also place constraints on the cash flow available to Changyou for maintaining and expanding its cinema advertising business. Moreover, Changyou may be forced to make additional payments to operators of popular movie theaters in certain regional markets that are particularly competitive if the average market prices for pre-film advertisement slots in such markets increase significantly during the contract period and the operators threaten to terminate their contracts with Changyou in order to enter into more profitable contracts with its competitors. Changyou may not be able to maintain or expand the revenues that it receives from cinema advertising services. Changyous cinema advertising business generates revenues through contracts that it enters into with advertisers to place their advertisements in the pre-film advertising slots that Changyou has purchased from operators of movie theaters. Changyou relies on its sales force to identify and sell pre-film advertising slots to potential advertisers. If Changyou cannot maintain a stable and capable sales force or if Changyou is unable to sell to advertisers a large enough portion of the pre-film advertising slots, it may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to recoup its upfront payments and additional committed payments under the contracts with the operators of the movie theaters. Any failure by Changyou to develop, maintain or expand cooperative relationships with advertisers could cause its cinema advertising revenues to decrease. The prospects for growth of Changyous cinema adverting business may be adversely affected by the promulgation, implementation, and interpretation of PRC laws and regulations concerning cinema adverting. Under the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Cinema Advertising and the Notice on Further Regulating the Administration of the Cinema Advertising , effective on July 2004 and February 2009, respectively, cinema advertising operators and the content of cinema advertisements must comply with the Advertising Law of the Peoples Republic of China , or the New Advertising Law, issued by the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress and effective on September 1, 2015, and other relevant laws and regulations. On November 7, 2016, the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress promulgated the Film Industry Promotion Law of PRC , or FIPL, which became effective on March 1, 2017. Among other things, the FIPL forbids the displaying of advertisements during the presentation of a feature film. If any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or their implementation or interpretation by the relevant authorities, place burdensome restrictions on cinema advertising, Changyous cinema advertising business may be adversely affected. 101 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China The SAPPRFTs, the MIITs, the MOCs, and other PRC authorities regulatory supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect Changyous online game operations. The SAPPRFT has issued a series of regulations affecting the online game industry and providing guidance regarding online game operations. The SAPPRFT issued a notice in September 2009 stating that the SAPPRFT would be the only governmental agency with the authority to review and approve online games, including reviewing and approving the importation of online games from offshore copyright owners, and that all online game operators must obtain an Internet publishing license in order to operate online games and related services and obtain additional pre-approval from the SAPPRFT to make any changes to, or any new versions or expansion packs of, the originally approved online games. The Measures of Internet Publication Service Administration issued by the SAPPRFT and the MIIT, or the New Internet Publication Measures, which became effective on March 10, 2016 and replaced the Temporary Measures for Internet Publication Administration that had become effective in 2002, require that entities in the Internet publishing business apply for an online publishing service license, instead of an Internet publishing license, that entities holding an Internet publishing license apply for an online publishing service license within a specified period of time to replace their Internet publishing license, and that all such entities obtain approval from the SAPPRFT prior to the publication of new online games. On May 24, 2016, the SAPPRFT issued a Notice of the SAPPRFT on Administration of Mobile Game Publishing Services , or the Mobile Game Notice, which became effective on July 1, 2016. The Mobile Game Notice provides that the content of mobile games is subject to review, and that mobile game publishers and operators must apply for publishing and authorization codes for the games. Under the Mobile Game Notice, significant upgrades and expansion packs for mobile games that have previously been approved for publishing may be regarded as new works, and the operators will be required to obtain approval for such upgrades and expansion packs before they are released. In the event of any failure to meet these license and approval requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operation, or having its business license revoked. Changyous online game business may be adversely affected by these SAPPRFT and MIIT notices, as the launch of online games, new versions, expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the approval required. Such delays may result in higher costs for Changyous online game operation and have an adverse effect on its game revenue. The MOC also has issued regulations affecting the online game industry. For example, on June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Interim Measures for Online Games Administration, or the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010. The Online Game Measures stipulate that the MOC has the power to review the content of all online games except online game publications that have been pre-approved by the SAPPRFT. However, the Online Game Measures do not clearly specify what constitutes online game publication. Furthermore, the Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with the MOC, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a games storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. Changyous online game business may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when Changyou tries to file or apply for content review with the MOC. For Changyous imported licensed games, the requirement for pre-approval by the MOC of any substantial change of Changyous games may cause delay in releasing its expansion packs of the games, which may result in higher costs for its online game operations and have an adverse effect on its game revenues. In addition, the Online Game Measures do not resolve certain inconsistencies and ambiguities resulting from pronouncements included in previous notices issued by the SAPPRFT and the MOC. Because there is ambiguity in the scope of the authority and the roles and responsibilities of governmental departments, such as the SAPPRFT and the MOC, with oversight of the online game industry, Changyou may face stricter scrutiny of the day-to-day operations of its online game business. If any of its online game operating entities cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC governmental department regarding the online game industry, Changyou may be subject to various penalties and its online game business may be adversely affected. PRC law and regulations governing the online game industry in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Changyou may fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits, approvals, registrations and filings. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the SAPPRFT, the MOC and the Ministry of Public Security, or the MPS, have the power to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the online game industry. 102 Table of Contents Changyou is required to obtain applicable permits, approvals and registrations from, and make necessary filings with, different regulatory authorities in order to operate its online games. For example, as an online game operator in China, Changyou must obtain an ICP license from the MIIT, an Online Cultural Operating Permit from the MOC and an online publishing service license from the SAPPRFT in order to distribute games through the Internet. Any online game Changyou operates needs to be approved by the SAPPRFT prior to its launch and filed with the MOC within 30 days after its launch. Once a new online game or any upgrade, expansion pack or new version of any existing game is launched, such new game or such upgrade, expansion pack or new version must be filed with the MOC and approval must be obtained from the SAPPRFT for online publication. If Changyou fails to maintain any of its permits, approvals or registrations, to make any necessary filings, or to apply for and obtain any new permits, approvals or registrations or make any new filings on a timely basis, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including fines and a requirement that it discontinues or limits its operations. As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new law and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those Changyou currently has, and address new issues that arise. In addition, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC law and regulations applicable to the online game industry. Furthermore, as mobile games are a relatively new type of online game, there are uncertainties relating to whether a game developer, such as Changyou, which provides mobile games to mobile device users, needs to obtain a separate operating license in addition to the ICP license that it has already obtained. For any mobile games Changyou launches, Changyou may be required to apply for a separate operating license for the mobile applications. Therefore, it may not be able to obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future, and it may be found to be in violation of current or future PRC law and regulations, which could impede its ability to conduct business. Changyou operates some of its existing games, and plans to operate certain of its future games, with Internet authorization codes that it obtained through third-party electronic publishing entities. If the SAPPRFT challenges the commercial operation of any of Changyous games that are operated with Internet authorization codes obtained through third-party publishing entities, Changyou may be subject to various penalties, including restrictions on its operations. Under regulations issued by the SAPPRFT and the MIIT, online game operators are required to have an online publishing service license (or before the New Internet Publication Measures became effective on March 10, 2016, an Internet publishing license), and an authorization code obtained under such a license is required for each game in operation and publicly available in the PRC. Changyou publishes certain of its existing games with authorization codes obtained under Internet publishing licenses held by third parties. See PRC RegulationRegulation of Online Games Services and PRC RegulationRegulation of the Provision of Internet Content Online Cultural Products. Current PRC regulations are not clear as to the consequence of obtaining authorization codes through the licenses of third-party entities. Changyous past and expected future practices might be challenged by the SAPPRFT, which could subject Changyou to various penalties, including fines, confiscation of publishing equipment and the revenues generated from the publishing activities, the revocation of its business license, or the forced discontinuation of or restrictions on its operations. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect Changyous online game revenues. Changyous online game revenues are collected through the online sale of game points and sale of its prepaid cards, which are considered to be the virtual currency as such term is defined in the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency , or the Virtual Currency Notice, which was jointly issued by the MOC and the MOFCOM in 2009. PRC laws and regulations, including the Virtual Currency Notice, have provided various restrictions on virtual currency and imposed various requirements and obligations on online game operators with respect to the virtual currency used in their games, including that (i) the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual users in the PRC is subject to limits, and online game operators are required to report the total amount of their issued virtual currency on a quarterly basis and are prohibited from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currency in order to generate revenues; (ii) virtual currency may only be provided to users in exchange for payment in RMB and may only be used to pay for virtual goods and services of the issuer of the currency, and online game operators are required to keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days; (iii) online game operators are prohibited from providing lucky draws or lotteries that are conducted on the condition that participants contribute cash or virtual currency in exchange for game props or virtual currencies; (iv) online game operators are prohibited from providing virtual currency trading services to minors; and (v) companies involved with virtual currency in the PRC must be either issuers or trading platforms, and may not operate simultaneously as issuers and as trading platforms. On December 1, 2016, the MOC issued Notice of Ministry of Culture on Regulating Online Game Operation Strengthening Interim and Ex-post Supervision , or the Online Game Operation Notice, which became effective on May 1, 2017. The Online Game Operation Notice stipulates that online game operators may not allow online game virtual currency to be exchanged for real currency or physical items, except that, when online game operators cease offering their online game products and services to users, the operators may repay the users with real currency or other actual physical or intangible assets for unused virtual currency. Changyou must tailor its business model carefully, including designing and operating its databases to maintain users information for the minimum required period, in order to comply with the requirements of current PRC laws and regulations, including the Virtual Currency Notice and the Online Game Operation Notice, in a manner that in many cases can be expected to result in relatively lower sales of its game coins and an adverse impact on its online game revenues. 103 Table of Contents Changyous business may be adversely affected by public opinion and governmental policies in China as well as in other jurisdictions where it operates its online games or licenses its online games to third parties. Currently, most of Changyous game players in China are young males, many of whom are students. Due to relatively easy access to personal computers and Internet cafs, the increasing use and popularity of mobile devices such as smart phones and tablets connected to the Internet, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including education, vocational training, sports, and resting, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. Adverse public opinion could discourage game players from playing Changyous games, and could result in government regulations that impose additional limitations on the operations of online games as well as game players access to online games. For example, under the Monitor System Circular online game operators are required to adopt various measures to maintain a system to communicate with the parents of minors playing online games and are required to monitor the activities of minors and suspend the accounts of minors if so requested by their parents. We believe that stricter government regulations, such as regulations imposing stricter age and hour limits, limiting the issuance of virtual currency by online game operators or the amount of virtual currency that can be purchased by an individual game player, and extending anti-fatigue-related regulations to adults, could be implemented in the future. Any such adverse public opinion or tightened government regulations could adversely affect Changyous ability to maintain or increase its revenues. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, has announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. It is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on Changyous game players or its business, but collection of such a tax might discourage players who are interested in trading virtual currencies from playing its games, which could reduce its revenues. Moreover, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where Changyou licenses or operates its games, which could similarly adversely affect its revenues. Changyou may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to its Websites. The MIIT has published regulations that subject Internet content providers to potential liability for the actions of game players and others using their Websites, including liability for violations of PRC law prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. As these regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it is not possible for Changyou to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for it as a developer and operator of online games, and as an operator of the 17173.com Website and the Dolphin Browser. In addition, Changyou may not be able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through its Websites, or content generated or placed on its Websites by its game players, despite its attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of its content objectionable, they may require Changyou to curtail its games, which may reduce its game player base, the amount of time its games are played or the purchases of virtual items. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing property rights with respect to virtual assets and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, Changyou may have relating to the loss of virtual assets by its game players. In the course of playing Changyous games, game players can acquire and accumulate virtual assets, such as game player experience, skills and weaponry. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by game players and in some cases are traded among game players for real money or assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service by a network crash, or by hacking activities. There are currently no PRC laws or regulations governing property rights with respect to virtual assets. As a result, it is unclear who the legal owner of virtual assets is and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law and regulations whether an operator of online games such as Changyou would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, Changyou may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages. 104 Table of Contents Changyous online game operations may be adversely affected by implementation of anti-fatigue-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. Eight PRC government authorities, including the SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT, jointly issued regulations, or the Anti-Fatigue Notice, requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an anti-fatigue system in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be healthy, three to five hours is defined to be fatiguing, and five hours or more is defined to be unhealthy. Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the fatiguing level, and to zero when they reach the unhealthy level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. These restrictions could limit Changyous ability to increase its business among minors. If these restrictions were expanded to apply to adult game players in the future, Changyous revenues could be adversely affected. These eight PRC government authorities subsequently promulgated additional regulations, including a Notice on Initializing the verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games , or the Real-name Registration Notice, to strengthen the implementation of the anti-fatigue system and real-name registration. The Real-name Registration Notices main focus is to prevent minors from using an adults identity to play Internet games and, accordingly, provides stringent punishment for online game operators for not implementing the anti-fatigue and real name registration measures properly and effectively. The most severe punishment contemplated by the Real-name Registration Notice is termination of the operation of the online game if it is found to be in violation of the Anti-Fatigue Notice, the Real-name Registration Notice or the circular entitled Implementation of Online Game Monitor System of the Guardians of Minors , or the Monitor System Circular. The Real-name Registration Notice increases Changyous operating risks, as it will be required to spend more resources on the real-name verification and anti-fatigue system, which will lead to an increase in its operating costs. In addition, the amount of time that minors will be able to spend playing online games such as Changyous will be further limited, which can be expected to lead to a reduction in its revenues. Furthermore, if it is found to be violating these regulations, Changyou may be required to suspend or discontinue its online game operations. In February 2013, 15 PRC government authorities, including the SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education, the MOC and the MIIT, jointly issued the Work Plan for the Integrated Prevention of Minors Online Game Addiction , or the Work Plan, implementing integrated measures by different authorities to prevent minors from being addicted to online games. Under the Work Plan, the current relevant regulations will be further clarified and additional implementation rules will be issued by relevant authorities. As a result, Changyou may have to impose more stringent limits for minor game players, which may lead to an increase in its operating expenses and a reduction in its revenues from minor game players. In July 2014, the SAPPRFT issued the Notice on Further Launch Verification of Real-name Registration for Anti-Fatigue System on Internet Games , stating that, in view of some of the hardware and functionality limitations inherent in mobile devices, anti-fatigue system requirements applicable to Internet games do not currently apply to mobile games. If the SAPPRFT in the future decides to expand the anti-fatigue system requirements to mobile games, Changyous operating expenses would be likely to increase. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments that we received from the staff of the SEC 180 days or more before the end of the year ended December 31, 2017 regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Sohu In February 2007, we purchased an office building of approximately 18,265 square meters in Beijing, for consideration of approximately $35.3 million, of which 18,228 square meters have been leased to Sogou since November 2013. In November 2009, we entered into a contract for the purchase and development of an office building of approximately 41,283 square meters in Beijing to serve as our headquarters, for consideration of approximately $162 million. The office building was placed in service in May 2013. As of December 31, 2017, we leased office space in Beijing of approximately 7,644 square meters. We also leased office space of approximately 18,467 square meters in other cities in the PRC. 105 Table of Contents Sogou As of December 31, 2017, Sogou leased 6,129 square meters of office space in Beijing, in addition to office space that Sogou leased from Sohu. Sogou also leased a total of approximately 2,913 square meters of office space in Chengdu, the provincial capital of Sichuan province in the PRC, and a total of approximately 277 square meters of office space in Tianjin. Changyou In August 2009, Changyou purchased an office building of approximately 14,950 square meters in Beijing, for consideration of approximately $33.4 million. Since January 1, 2016, Changyou has leased out this building to third-party business tenants. In August 2010, Changyou entered into a contract for the purchase and development of an office building of approximately 56,549 square meters in Beijing to serve as its headquarters, for consideration of approximately $171 million. The office building was placed in service in December 2013. As of December 31, 2017, Changyou leased additional office space in Beijing of approximately 817 square meters. Changyou also leased office space of approximately 17,227 square meters in other cities in the PRC and in other countries. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time we become subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal proceedings or claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and management resources. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON STOCK, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES IR Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol SOHU. Public trading in our common stock commenced on July 12, 2000. The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market for the quarters indicated. 2016 2017 High Low High Low First quarter $ 55.21 $ 41.47 $ 43.60 $ 34.59 Second quarter 49.85 35.65 49.22 38.20 Third quarter 45.84 36.43 56.98 44.46 Fourth quarter 45.00 32.60 70.86 43.35 The closing price of our common stock on February 22, 2018 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $34.05. Holders As of February 13, 2018, there were 9 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the exact number of beneficial holders represented by these record holders. As of February 13, 2018, there were approximately 11,700 beneficial holders of our common stock. Dividends We do not expect Sohu.com Inc. to pay any dividends to its shareholders in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information in Item 12 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. 106 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 we did not have a program for the repurchase of outstanding shares of common stock of Sohu.com Inc., of outstanding ADSs of Sogou Inc., or of outstanding ADSs of Changyou.com Limited. Use of Proceeds On July 17, 2000, we completed an underwritten IPO of our common stock pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-1 (SEC file No. 333-96137), which became effective on July 10, 2000. There has been no change in the information regarding use of proceeds from the IPO that was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2017. PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return for Sohu, the NASDAQ Stock Market (U.S. companies) Index (or the NASDAQ Market Index) and the Morningstar Group Index. The graph covers the period from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2017. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2012 in our common stock, the NASDAQ Market Index and the Morningstar Group index, and the reinvestment of any dividends. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Comparison of Cumulative Total Return ASSUMES $100 INVESTED ON DEC. 31, 2012 ASSUMES DIVIDEND REINVESTED Sohu.com Inc. Morningstar Group NASDAQ Market Index 12/31/2012 100.00 100.00 100.00 12/31/2013 154.06 173.21 140.12 12/31/2014 112.34 179.52 160.78 12/31/2015 120.81 226.79 171.97 12/31/2016 71.59 230.23 187.22 12/31/2017 91.57 328.73 242.71 The Stock Performance Graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not deemed to be incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this annual report on Form 10-K into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, or any filing under the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically request that the information be treated as soliciting material or specifically incorporate this information by reference into any such filing, and will not otherwise be deemed incorporated by reference into any other filing under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference. Information used on the graphs was obtained from Morningstar, Inc., a source believed to be reliable. 107 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated financial data below should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (In thousands, except per share data) Statements of Comprehensive Income Data: Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 428,526 $ 541,158 $ 577,114 $ 447,956 $ 314,066 Search and search-related advertising 198,915 357,839 539,521 597,133 801,199 Subtotal of online advertising revenues 627,441 898,997 1,116,635 1,045,089 1,115,265 Online games 669,168 652,008 636,846 395,709 449,533 Others 103,665 122,072 183,610 209,633 296,164 Total revenues 1,400,274 1,673,077 1,937,091 1,650,431 1,860,962 Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising 221,659 307,708 383,187 371,085 363,592 Search and search-related advertising 109,139 163,918 238,944 290,158 412,904 Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 330,798 471,626 622,131 661,243 776,496 Online games 93,307 142,552 156,315 96,168 62,775 Others 55,945 71,456 80,618 102,389 195,895 Total cost of revenues 480,050 685,634 859,064 859,800 1,035,166 Gross profit 920,224 987,443 1,078,027 790,631 825,796 Operating expenses: Product development 276,120 409,285 398,143 353,144 412,173 Sales and marketing 351,653 526,514 383,931 434,780 413,045 General and administrative 108,970 204,325 173,160 119,841 122,874 Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 0 52,282 40,324 0 86,882 Total operating expenses 736,743 1,192,406 995,558 907,765 1,034,974 Operating profit /(loss) 183,481 (204,963 ) 82,469 (117,134 ) (209,178 ) Other income /(loss), net 12,721 9,959 74,526 (10,713 ) 6,658 Interest income 36,746 37,560 30,643 22,499 24,138 Interest expense (8,917 ) (6,583 ) (7,184 ) (1,356 ) (4,088 ) Exchange difference (6,660 ) (1,142 ) 5,337 12,803 (14,385 ) Income /(loss) before income tax expense 217,371 (165,169 ) 185,791 (93,901 ) (196,855 ) Income tax expense 50,422 6,050 76,936 21,072 273,148 Net income /(loss) 166,949 (171,219 ) 108,855 (114,973 ) (470,003 ) Less: Net income attributable to the mezzanine-classified noncontrolling interest shareholders 17,780 0 0 0 0 Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest shareholders 82,044 (32,309 ) 146,542 109,048 84,523 Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred shareholders 82,432 27,747 11,911 0 0 Net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (15,307 ) $ (166,657 ) $ (49,598 ) $ (224,021 ) $ (554,526 ) Net income /(loss) $ 166,949 $ (171,219 ) $ 108,855 $ (114,973 ) $ (470,003 ) Other comprehensive income /(loss) 47,125 (8,390 ) (87,655 ) (77,155 ) 68,429 Comprehensive income /(loss) 214,074 (179,609 ) 21,200 (192,128 ) (401,574 ) Less: Comprehensive income attributable to the mezzanine-classified noncontrolling interest shareholders 17,780 0 0 0 0 Comprehensive income /(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest shareholders 92,407 (33,797 ) 118,138 78,824 117,960 Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred shareholders 82,423 27,747 11,911 0 0 Comprehensive income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 21,464 (173,559 ) (108,849 ) (270,952 ) (519,534 ) Basic net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (0.40 ) $ (4.33 ) $ (1.28 ) $ (5.79 ) $ (14.27 ) Shares used in computing basic net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,255 38,468 38,598 38,706 38,858 Diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (0.47 ) $ (4.43 ) $ (1.32 ) $ (5.83 ) $ (14.30 ) Shares used in computing diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,502 38,468 38,598 38,706 38,858 108 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (In thousands) Balance Sheets Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,287,288 $ 876,340 $ 1,245,205 $ 1,050,957 $ 1,364,096 Restricted cash 0 0 0 0 3,928 Restricted time deposits 434,048 426,748 227,285 269 271 Investments in debt securities 82,009 0 0 0 0 Working capital 937,146 902,923 814,933 918,520 1,474,699 Total assets 2,998,715 2,867,009 3,042,194 2,563,690 3,389,239 Short-term bank loans 410,331 25,500 344,500 0 61,216 Long-term bank loans 0 344,500 0 0 122,433 Total liabilities 1,161,995 1,178,103 1,311,442 1,005,895 1,572,002 Noncontrolling interest 510,015 487,245 489,730 564,215 1,066,603 Total shareholders equity 1,836,720 1,688,906 1,730,752 1,557,795 1,817,237 109 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Sohu.com Inc. (NASDAQ: SOHU), a Delaware corporation organized in 1996, is a leading Chinese online media, search and game service group providing comprehensive online products and services on PCs and mobile devices in the Peoples Republic of China (the PRC or China). Our businesses are conducted by Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and VIEs (collectively referred to as the Sohu Group or the Group). The Sohu Group consists of Sohu, which when referred to in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, excludes the businesses and the corresponding subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou Inc. (Sogou) and Changyou.com Limited (Changyou), Sogou and Changyou. Sogou and Changyou are indirect controlled subsidiaries of Sohu.com Inc. Sohu is a leading Chinese language online media content and services provider. Sogou is a leading online search and search-related services and mobile Internet product provider in China. Changyou is a leading online game developer and operator in China as measured by the popularity of its PC game TLBB and its mobile game Legacy TLBB, and engages primarily in the development, operation and licensing of online games for PCs and mobile devices. Sogou completed its IPO on the NYSE in November 2017 (trading under the symbol SOGO) and Changyou completed its IPO on NASDAQ in April 2009 (trading under the symbol CYOU). As Sohu.com Inc. is the controlling shareholder of both Sogou and Changyou, Sohu.com Inc. consolidates Sogou and Changyou in its consolidated financial statements, and recognizes noncontrolling interests reflecting economic interests in Sogou and Changyou held by shareholders other than Sohu.com Inc. Through the operation of Sohu, Sogou and Changyou, we generate online advertising revenues, including brand advertising revenues and search and search-related advertising revenues; online games revenues; and other revenues. Online advertising and online games are our core businesses. Most of our operations are conducted through our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our total revenues were approximately $1.86 billion, representing an increase of 13% compared to 2016, and our gross margin decreased from 48% to 44%. Our online advertising business generated revenues of $1.12 billion, with a 7% annual increase, representing 60% of total revenues. Our online game business generated revenues of $449.5 million, with a 14% annual increase, representing 24% of total revenues. In 2017, our net loss before deducting the noncontrolling interest was $470.0 million, compared to net loss of $115.0 million in 2016. In 2017, our net loss after deducting the noncontrolling interest was $554.5 million, compared to a net loss of $224.0 million in 2016. Diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. was $14.30 in 2017, compared to a diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $5.83 in 2016. Factors and Trends Affecting our Business With the accelerated shift in user activities from PCs to mobile devices and an increase in the number of Internet users, the use of various kinds of mobile Internet services continued to increase. At Sohu, we focused our efforts on developing a portfolio of leading mobile products across our business lines that we believed our users would like. Smartphones have reshaped the online media business in China, as in-stream feeds have become a mainstream format through which users have become accustomed to receiving personalized information. In 2017, to ensure we remain as a premier destination for our audience, we invested extensively in content and technology for Sohu Media Portal. We continually refined the design of our key product Sohu News APP, and introduced innovative features to meet users appetites. We improved the algorithm used by the recommendation engine of Sohu News APP to enhance the user experience. Our advertising revenues from large brand advertisers were soft through 2017, as we faced challenges competing for their budgets. In the meantime, demand from small and medium enterprise (SME) customers was resilient as we proactively expanded our sales network to cover large numbers of local businesses. 110 Table of Contents Online video services remained one of the most popular Internet applications, and continued to gain viewers from television stations. The video industry continued to be deeply competitive as major online platforms aggressively competed for popular content. The competition led to an escalation in the price of content, especially the prices of premium TV programs. Since 2016, Sohu Video has gradually shifted its focus to the self-developed content category, which, in our view, will create long-lasting value to our platform. Leveraging our exclusive original content, we also actively explored opportunities with subscription services that we believe will become an important revenue source in addition to traditional advertising revenues. Beginning in the second quarter of 2017, Sohu Video stopped chasing the costly domestic TV dramas that are scheduled to be released in 2018. We expect that this decision will generate substantial cost savings and help narrow the operating loss of Sohu Video in 2018. For our search and search-related business, Sogou is China second-largest search engine by mobile queries. In December 2017, Sogou Search had an 18% market share in China based on mobile queries, as compared to 15% in March 2017, according to iResearch. During 2017, Sogou continued to strengthen its competitive advantages in search from channel to content, leveraging the robust ecosystem it has built and shared with Tencent. Since October 2017, Tencent has been testing, on a trial basis and for purposes of assessment, the integration of Sogou Search into Weixin/WeChat. With this initiative, users of Weixin/WeChat can use Sogou Search as a general search function within Weixin/WeChat to access Internet information outside Weixin/WeChat. Sogou is working closely with Tencent on product testing and optimization and intend to discuss commercial arrangements upon the completion of the trial stage. In 2017, Sogou made the strategic decision to invest in the development of its search offerings across select verticals, notably healthcare and cross-language search. By differentiating its search content, Sogou has been able to provide users with more comprehensive, higher-quality search results. At the same time, Sogou focused on developing AI technology centered on natural language processing, and has made solid progress in voice, translation and Q&A. Sogou has further leveraged these AI capabilities to enhance the search experience for users. For Changyous online game business, PC games revenue experienced a decrease in 2017 as a result of the natural decline of Changyous older PC games, including TLBB. Meanwhile mobile games revenue increased significantly in 2017, which was mainly due to the revenue contribution of Legacy TLBB, which was launched in the second quarter of 2017. Changyou intends to remain focused on improving game quality and further investing in visual graphics, other technologies and talent development. While Changyou continues to focus on MMORPG development, it also aims to improve its R&D and product innovation capabilities in advanced casual and SLG games. For the three months ended December 31, 2017, Changyous PC games and mobile games had approximately 5.5 million Average Monthly Active Accounts and approximately 2.0 million Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations relates to our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Identified below are the accounting policies that reflect our most significant estimates and judgments, and those that we believe are the most critical to fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements. Basis of Consolidation Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. 111 Table of Contents VIE Consolidation Our VIEs are wholly or partially owned by certain of our employees as nominee shareholders. For our consolidated VIEs, management made evaluations of the relationships between us and our VIEs and the economic benefit flow of contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In connection with such evaluation, management also took into account the fact that, as a result of such contractual arrangements, we control the shareholders voting interests in these VIEs. As a result of such evaluation, management concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of our consolidated VIEs. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition Noncontrolling interests are recognized to reflect the portion of the equity of subsidiaries and VIEs which is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the controlling shareholder. Currently, the noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements primarily consist of noncontrolling interests for Sogou and Changyou. Noncontrolling Interest for Sogou Sogou completed its IPO on the NYSE in November 2017. Prior to the completion of Sogous IPO, Sohu.com Inc. controlled the election of a majority of the Board of Directors of Sogou pursuant to a shareholders agreement that expired upon the completion of the IPO. Following the completion of Sogous IPO, pursuant to the Voting Agreement, Sohu.com Inc. still has the right to appoint a majority of Sogous Board of Directors. As Sogous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Sogou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting economic interests in Sogou held by shareholders other than us (the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders). Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition before Sogous IPO Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, based on the following principles of allocation of Sogous profit and loss, along with changes in shareholders equity/(deficit) and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards that were unvested and vested but not yet settled and the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders investments in Sogou Series A Preferred Shares outstanding before Sogous IPO (Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares) and Sogou Series B Preferred Shares outstanding before Sogous IPO (Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares) (together, the Sogou Pre-IPO Preferred Shares) and Sogou ordinary shares outstanding before Sogous IPO (Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares and Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares, as applicable) were accounted for as a noncontrolling interest classified as permanent equity in our consolidated balance sheets, as we had the right to reject a redemption requested by the noncontrolling shareholders. These treatments were based on the terms governing investment, and on the terms of the classes of Sogou shares held, by the noncontrolling shareholders in Sogou before Sogous IPO. Principles of Allocation of Sogous Profit and LossBy virtue of the terms of the Sogou Pre-IPO Preferred Shares, Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares, and Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares, Sogous losses were allocated in the following order before Sogous IPO: (i) net losses were allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (ii) additional net losses were allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (iii) additional net losses were allocated to the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares until its basis in Sogou decreased to zero; and (iv) further net losses were allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. 112 Table of Contents Net income from Sogou was allocated in the following order before Sogous IPO: (i) net income was allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou until their basis in Sogou increased to zero; (ii) additional net income was allocated to the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series B Preferred Shares to bring its basis back; (iii) additional net income was allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares to bring their basis back; (iv) further net income was allocated to holders of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class B Ordinary Shares to bring their basis back; and (v) further net income was allocated between Sohu and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition after Sogous IPO Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, based on their share of the economic interest in Sogou, along with changes in shareholders equity and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to share-based awards that are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in our ownership in Sogou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Noncontrolling Interest for Changyou Changyou is a public company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As of December 31, 2017, we held approximately 68% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 95% of the total voting power in Changyou. As Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than us (the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders). Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, based on their share of the economic interest in Changyou. Changyous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity, adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in our ownership in Changyou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Segment Reporting Our Groups segments are business units that offer different services and are reviewed separately by the chief operating decision maker (the CODM), or the decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The CODM is Sohu.com Inc.s Chief Executive Officer. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. The recognition of revenues involves certain management judgments. The amount and timing of our revenues could be materially different for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Revenues or expenses from barter transactions are recognized at fair value during the period in which the advertisements are provided only if the fair value of the advertising services surrendered in the transaction is determinable based on our historical practice of receiving cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, or other consideration that is readily convertible to a known amount of cash for similar advertising from buyers unrelated to the counterparty in the barter transaction. 113 Table of Contents Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues include revenues from brand advertising services as well as search and search-related advertising services. We recognize revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our advertisers, after deducting agent rebates and net of value-added tax (VAT) and related surcharges. Brand Advertising Revenues Business Model Through PCs and mobile devices, we provide advertisement placements to our advertisers on different Internet platforms and in different formats, which include banners, links, logos, buttons, full screen, pre-roll, mid-roll, post-roll video screens, pause video screens, loading page ads, news feed ads and in-feed video infomercial ads. Currently we have four main types of pricing models, consisting of the Fixed Price model, the Cost Per Impression (CPM) model, the Cost Per click (CPC) model, and the E-commerce model. (i) Fixed Price model Under the Fixed Price model, a contract is signed to establish a fixed price for the advertising services to be provided. We recognize revenue based on the contract price and the period of display. (ii) CPM model Under the CPM model, the unit price for each qualifying display is fixed, but there is no overall fixed price for the advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. A qualifying display is defined as the appearance of an advertisement, where the advertisement meets criteria specified in the contract. We recognize revenue based on the fees we charge the advertisers, which are based on the unit prices and the number of qualifying displays. (iii) CPC model Under the CPC model, there is no overall fixed price for advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. We charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the advertisements. The unit price for each click is auction-based. We recognize revenue based on qualifying clicks and the unit price. (iv) E-commerce model Under the e-commerce model, revenues are mainly generated from sales of membership cards which allow potential home buyers to purchase specified properties from real estate developers at a discount greater than the price that Focus charges for the card. Membership fees are refundable until the potential home buyer uses the discounts to purchase properties. Focus recognizes such revenues upon obtaining confirmation that the membership card has been redeemed to purchase a property. Revenue Recognition For brand advertising revenue recognition, prior to entering into contracts, we make a credit assessment of the advertiser. For contracts for which collectability is determined to be reasonably assured, we recognize revenue when all revenue recognition criteria are met. In other cases, we only recognize revenue when the cash is received and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We treat advertising contracts with multiple deliverable elements as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and recognize revenue on a periodic basis during the contract period when each deliverable service is provided. Since the contract price is for all deliverables under one advertising contract, we allocate the contract price among all the deliverables at the inception of the arrangement on the basis of their relative selling prices according to the selling price hierarchy established by ASU No. 2009-13 . We first use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists. If vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price does not exist, we use third-party evidence of selling price. If neither vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price nor third-party evidence of selling price exists, we use managements best estimate of selling price for the deliverables. 114 Table of Contents Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Search and search-related services consist primarily of search and search-related advertising services offered by Sogou. Pay-for-click Services Pay for click services enable advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogou search result pages and other Internet properties and third parties Internet properties where the links are relevant to the subject and content of searches and such properties. For pay for click services, Sogou introduces Internet users to its advertisers through auction-based pay-for-click systems and charges advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Revenue for pay-for-click services is recognized on a per click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Other Online Advertising Services Other online advertising services mainly consist of displaying advertisers promotional links on Sogous Internet properties. Revenue for time-based advertising is normally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, provided Sogous obligations under the contract and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue for performance-based advertising services is recognized when its obligations under the contract have been met and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Sogous online advertising services expand distribution of advertisers promotional links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on third parties Internet properties, including Web content, software, and mobile applications. Sogou is the primary obligor to the advertisers and payments made to operators of third-party Internet properties are included in traffic acquisition costs, which are included in cost of search and search-related advertising revenues. Online Game Revenues Changyous online game revenues are generated primarily from its self-operated and licensed-out PC games and mobile games. Prior to the sale of the 7Road business in 2015, Changyou generated online game revenues from Web games, which have been an insignificant part of Changyous business since the sale. Changyous online game revenues also include a small amount revenues generated from online card and board games offered by MoboTap. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where the basic game play functions are free of charge and players are charged for purchases of in-game virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time and perpetual virtual items. Self-Operated Games Changyou is the primary obligor of its self-operated games. Changyou hosts the games on its own servers and is responsible for the sale and marketing of the games as well as customer service. Accordingly, revenues are recorded gross of revenue sharing-payments to third-party developers and/or mobile APP stores, but are net of VAT and discounts to game card distributors where applicable. Changyou obtains revenues from the sale of in-game virtual items. Revenues are recognized over the estimated lives of the virtual items purchased by game players or as the virtual items are consumed. If different assumptions were used in deriving the estimated lives of the virtual items, the timing of the recording of the revenues would be impacted. PC Games Proceeds from the self-operation of PC games are collected from players and third-party game card distributors through sales of Changyous game points on its online payment platform and prepaid game cards. Self-operated PC games are either developed in house or licensed from third-party developers. For licensed PC games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. 115 Table of Contents Mobile Games For self-operated mobile games, Changyou sells game points to its game players via third-party mobile APP stores. The mobile APP stores in turn pay Changyou proceeds after deducting their share of pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. Self-operated mobile games are either developed in house or licensed from or jointly developed with third-party developers. For licensed and jointly developed mobile games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to mobile application stores and third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Web Games Changyou continued to operate a small portfolio of self-operated Web games after its sale of the 7Road business in 2015. Proceeds from those Web games are collected from players through the sale of game points. Licensed Out Games Changyou also authorizes third parties to operate its online games. Licensed out games include PC games and mobile games developed in house (such as Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB) and mobile games jointly developed with third-party developers. Changyou receives monthly revenue-based royalty payments from all the third-party licensee operators. Changyou receives additional up-front license fees from certain third-party licensee operators who are entitled to an exclusive right to operate Changyous games in specified geographic areas. Since Changyou is obligated to provide post-sale services, the initial license fees are recognized as revenue ratably over the license period, and the monthly revenue-based royalty payments are recognized when relevant services are delivered, provided that collectability is reasonably assured. Changyou views the third-party licensee operators as Changyous customers and recognizes revenues on a net basis, as Changyou does not have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the game services. Changyou remits to the third-party developers a pre-agreed percentage of revenues and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are included in Changyous cost of revenues or product development expenses. Other Revenues Sohu Other revenues attributable to Sohu consist primarily of revenues from paid subscription services, interactive broadcasting services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, content provided through the platforms of the three main telecommunications operators in China, and the filming business. Sogou Other revenues attributable to Sogou are revenues from IVAS revenues, which are mainly from the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties and the provision of online reading services, and revenues from other products and services, including smart hardware products. Changyou Other revenues attributable to Changyou are primarily from its cinema advertising business and from IVAS. In its cinema advertising business, Changyou provides clients advertising placements in slots that are shown in theaters before the screening of movies. The rights to place advertisements in such advertising slots are granted under contracts Changyou signs with different theaters. When all the recognition criteria are met, revenues from cinema advertising are recognized based on a percentage of the advertising slots actually delivered or on a straight-line basis over the contract period. 116 Table of Contents Changyou provides IVAS primarily through software applications for PCs and mobile devices offered by MoboTap on the Dolphin Browser and by RaidCall. Revenues from IVAS are recognized during the period the services are rendered or items are consumed under the gross method, as Changyou is the principal obligor for provision of the services. Cost of Revenues Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues includes cost of revenues from brand advertising services as well as cost of revenues from search and search-related services. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, and salary and benefits expenses. Cost of Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, depreciation expenses, as well as salary and benefits expenses. Traffic acquisition costs consist primarily of payments to third parties that direct search queries of the users to Internet properties of Sogou or distribute Sogou advertisers promotional links through such third parties Internet properties. The traffic acquisitions costs for such arrangements consist primarily of fees that Sogou pays to the third parties based on an agreed upon unit price and revenue sharing payments that Sogou makes to such third parties based on an agreed upon percentage of revenues generated from users clicks. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments, salary and benefits expenses, bandwidth leasing costs, content and license costs, depreciation and amortization expenses, and other direct costs. Cost of Other Revenues Cost of other revenues mainly consists of payments to theaters and film production companies for pre-film screening advertising slots, cost of smart hardware products, content and license costs related to paid subscription services, revenue-sharing payments related to the IVAS business, and revenue-sharing payments related to interactive broadcasting services. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, technical service fees, share-based compensation expense, content and license costs, depreciation and amortization expenses, and facilities expenses. These expenses are incurred for the enhancement and maintenance of our Internet platforms as well as for our products and services, including the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and cost of upgrades and technical support after the online games are available for marketing. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenses, salary and benefits expenses, travelling and entertainment expenses, and facilities expenses. Advertising and promotional expenses generally represent the expenses of promotions to create or stimulate a positive image of us or a desire to subscribe for our products and services. Advertising and promotional expenses are expensed as incurred. 117 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, professional fees, bad debts, travelling and entertainment expenses, facilities expenses, and depreciation and amortization expenses. Share-based Compensation Expense Sohu (excluding Fox Video Limited), Sogou, Changyou, and Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video) have incentive plans for the granting of share-based awards, including stock options, share options and restricted share units, to members of the boards of directors, management and other key employees. For share-based awards for which a grant date has occurred, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income based on the fair value of the related share-based awards on their grant dates. For share-based awards for which the service inception date precedes the grant date, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income beginning on the service inception date and is re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the related share-based awards. Share-based compensation expense is charged to the shareholders equity or noncontrolling interest section in the consolidated balance sheets. The assumptions used in share-based compensation expense recognition represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change or different assumptions are used, our share-based compensation expense could be materially different for any period. Moreover, the estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value that ultimately will be realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by us for accounting purposes. Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, and Changyou Share-based Awards Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of stock options granted by Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) as share-based awards before 2006, the Black-Scholes valuation model was applied. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Sohu common stock contractually granted under the Sohu 2010 Stock Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Sohu and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair value at the grant date. In determining the fair values of the stock options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. 118 Table of Contents Sogou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sogou as share-based awards, a binomial valuation model was applied. The determination of the fair value is affected by the fair value of the ordinary shares as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables, including risk-free interest rates, exercise multiples, expected forfeiture rates, expected share price volatility rates, and expected dividends. The fair values of the ordinary shares were assessed using the income approach/discounted cash flow method or based on the mid-point of the estimated IPO price range, in each case with a discount for lack of marketability, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Certain persons who became Sogou employees when Tencents Soso search and search-related businesses were transferred to Sogou on September 16, 2013 had been granted restricted share units under Tencents share award arrangements prior to the transfer of the businesses to Sogou. These Tencent restricted share units will continue to vest under the original Tencent share award arrangements provided the transferred employees continue to be employed by Sogou during the requisite service period. After the transfer of the Soso search and search-related businesses to Sogou, Sogou applied the guidance in ASC 505-50 to measure the related compensation expense, as the expense is deemed to have been incurred by Tencent as an investor on Sogous behalf, based on the then-current fair value at each reporting date. To determine the then-current fair value of the Tencent restricted share units granted to these employees, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was applied. Because Sogou is not required to reimburse Tencent for such share-based compensation expense, the related amount was recorded by Sogou as a capital contribution from Tencent. Changyou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of ordinary shares and restricted share units granted by Changyou as share-based awards in 2008, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted after Changyous IPO, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of Changyou Class A ordinary shares contractually granted under the Changyou 2014 Share Incentive Plan are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. Under ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date can be established until a mutual understanding is reached between Changyou and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair values at the grant date. In determining the fair values of Changyou share options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. Compensation Expense Recognition For options and restricted share units granted with respect to Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) shares and Changyou shares, compensation expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For share options granted with respect to Sogou shares, compensation expense is recognized over the estimated period during which the service period requirement and performance target will be met, which is usually within one year, or, after the performance target of Sogous completion of an IPO was met upon the completion of Sogous IPO on November 13, 2017, on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses, compensation expense is recognized by Sogou on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, and the fair value of the share-based compensation is re-measured at each reporting date until the service has been provided. The number of share-based awards for which the service is not expected to be rendered over the requisite period is estimated, and no compensation expense is recorded for the number of awards so estimated. For Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares repurchased from our former President and Chief Financial Officer in the first quarter of 2017, share-based compensation expense was recognized by us in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income in an amount equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares at the repurchase date. 119 Table of Contents Sohu Video Share-based Awards On January 4, 2012, Sohu Video, the holding entity of Sohus video division, adopted a 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the Video 2011 Share Incentive Plan) which provides for the issuance of up to 25,000,000 ordinary shares of Sohu Video (representing approximately 10% of the outstanding Sohu Video shares on a fully-diluted basis) to management and key employees of the video division and to Sohu management. As of December 31, 2017, grants of options for the purchase of 16,368,200 ordinary shares of Sohu Video had been contractually made, of which options for the purchase of 4,972,800 ordinary shares were vested. For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , as of December 31, 2017, no grant date had occurred, because the broader terms and conditions of the option awards had neither been finalized nor mutually agreed upon with the recipients. Therefore the fair value of the awards was not determinable and could not be accounted for. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , our management determined that the service inception date with respect to vested option awards for the purchase of 4,972,800 shares had preceded the grant date. Therefore, we recognized compensation expense for these vested Sohu Video share-based awards and re-measured, and will re-measure, the compensation expense on each subsequent reporting date based on the then-current fair values of these vested awards until the grant date is established. Taxation Income Taxes Recognition Income taxes are accounted for using an asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if based on available evidence, it is considered that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making such determination, we consider factors including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future profitability, and tax planning strategies. If events were to occur in the future that would allow us to realize more of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the deferred tax assets that would increase income for the period when those events occurred. If events were to occur in the future that would require us to realize less of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that would decrease income for the period when those events occurred. Significant management judgment is required in determining income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets are related to net operating losses and temporary differences between accounting basis and tax basis for our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs, which are subject to corporate income tax in the PRC under the CIT law. Applicable Income Tax Rate Principal Entities Qualified as HNTEs The CIT Law generally applies an income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises but grants preferential tax treatment to HNTEs. Under this preferential tax treatment, HNTEs can enjoy an income tax rate of 15%, but need to re-apply every three years. During this three-year period, an HNTE must conduct a qualification self-review each year to ensure it meets the HNTE criteria and is eligible for the 15% preferential tax rate for that year. If an HNTE fails to meet the criteria for qualification as an HNTE in any year, the enterprise cannot enjoy the 15% preferential tax rate in that year, and must instead use the regular 25% CIT rate. As of December 31, 2017, the following principal entities were qualified as HNTEs and were entitled to an income tax rate of 15%. 120 Table of Contents For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. Sohu New Momentum qualified as an HNTE for the years 2016 through 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. Sohu Internet. Sohu Internet qualified as an HNTE for the years 2015 through 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun. Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in November 2017 and December 2017, respectively. New Media and Guangzhou Qianjun are entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as HNTEs for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. For Sogous Business Sogou Information. Sogou Information qualified as an HNTE for the years 2015 through 2017, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2018. Sogou Technology. Sogou Technology re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in December 2017. Sogou Technology is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as an HNTE for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Sogou Network. Sogou Network qualified as an HNTE for the years 2016 through 2018, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2019. For Changyous Business Gamease and AmazGame. Gamease and AmazGame re-applied for HNTE qualification and received approval in October 2017 and December 2017, respectively. Gamease and AmazGame are entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as HNTEs for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Gamespace. Gamespace qualified as HNTE for the years 2017 through 2019, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2020. Principal Entities Qualified as Software Enterprises and KNSE The CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise is entitled to an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a KNSE is entitled to a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10%. Enterprises wishing to enjoy the status of a Software Enterprise or a KNSE must perform a self-assessment each year to ensure they meet the criteria for qualification and file required supporting documents with the tax authorities before using the preferential CIT rates. These enterprises will be subject to the tax authorities assessment each year as to whether they are entitled to use the relevant preferential CIT treatments. If at any time during the preferential tax treatment years an enterprise uses the preferential CIT rates but the relevant authorities determine that it fails to meet applicable criteria for qualification, the relevant authorities may revoke the enterprises Software Enterprise/KNSE status. For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. In 2017, Sohu New Momentum completed a self-assessment, filed required supporting documents, and was qualified as a Software Enterprise, which entitled it to the first year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% for 2016. Sohu New Momentum will follow the same process in 2018 to entitle it to the second year of an income tax rate reduction from 25% to 12.5% for 2017. 121 Table of Contents For Sogous Business Sogou Technology. In 2017, Sogou Technology completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016. In 2017, Sogou Technology was qualified as a KNSE after the relevant government authorities assessment and was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2016. Sogou Technology will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. For Changyous Business Wuhan Baina Information. In 2017, Wuhan Baina Information completed a self-assessment, filed required supporting documents and was qualified as a Software Enterprise, which entitled it to the first year of an income tax exemption for 2016. Wuhan Baina Information will follow the same process in 2018 to entitle it to the second year of an income tax exemption for 2017. AmazGame. In 2017, AmazGame completed a self-assessment and filed required supporting documents for KNSE status for 2016. Also in 2017, AmazGame was qualified as a KNSE after the relevant government authorities assessment and was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 10% for 2016. AmazGame will follow the same process in 2018 for KNSE status for 2017. PRC Withholding Tax on Dividends The CIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by foreign invested enterprises in the PRC to their immediate holding companies outside Mainland China. A lower withholding tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. A holding company in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% withholding tax rate under an arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital, if such holding company is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC foreign invested enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong holding company is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividend will remain subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. PRC Value Added Tax On May 1, 2016, the transition from the imposition of Business Tax to the imposition of VAT was expanded to all industries in China, and all of our revenues have been subject to VAT since that date. To record VAT payable, we adopted the net presentation method, which presents the difference between the output VAT (at a rate of 6%) and the available input VAT amount (at the rate applicable to the supplier). U.S. Corporate Income Tax Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation that is subject to U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income at a rate of up to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income of up to 35% for prior tax years. The U.S. Tax Reform signed into law on December 22, 2017 significantly modified the U.S. Internal Revenue Code by, among other things, reducing the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017; limiting and/or eliminating many business deductions; migrating the U.S. to a territorial tax system with a one-time transition tax on a mandatory deemed repatriation of previously deferred foreign earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries; subject to certain limitations, generally eliminating U.S. corporate income tax on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; and providing for new taxes on certain foreign earnings. Taxpayers may elect to pay the one-time transition tax over eight years, or in a single lump-sum payment. See Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this report. 122 Table of Contents Certain activities conducted in the PRC may result in U.S. corporate income taxes being imposed on Sohu.com Inc. when its subsidiaries that are controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) generate income that is subject to Subpart F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Subpart F). Generally, passive income, such as rents, royalties, interest, dividends, and gains from disposal of our investments, is among the types of income subject to taxation under Subpart F. Any income taxable under Subpart F is taxable in the U.S. at federal corporate income tax rates of up to 21%. Subpart F income also includes certain income from intercompany transactions between Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs and Changyous non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs or Sogous non-U.S. subsidiaries and VIEs, or where Sohu.com Inc.s non-U.S. subsidiaries or VIEs make an investment in U.S. property, such as holding the stock in, or making a loan to, a U.S. corporation. Under a provision of the U.S. tax code commonly referred to as the CFC look-through rule, Sohu.com Inc. has not had to treat dividends received by its CFC subsidiaries as Subpart F income includible in Sohu.com Inc.s taxable income in the U.S. The CFC look-through rule, which is currently scheduled to expire for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019, has been extended several times by the U.S. Congress. Unless further extended, the CFC look-through rule will be available for Sohu.com Inc.s CFC subsidiaries and their VIEs only through their taxable years ending November 30, 2020. To the extent that portions of Sohu.com Inc.s U.S. taxable income, such as Subpart F income or GILTI, are determined to be from sources outside of the U.S., subject to certain limitations, Sohu.com Inc. may be able to claim foreign tax credits to offset its U.S. income tax liabilities. If dividends that Sohu.com Inc. receives from its subsidiaries are determined to be from sources outside of the U.S., subject to certain limitations, Sohu.com Inc. will generally not be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on those dividends. Any liabilities for U.S. corporate income tax will be accrued in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and estimated tax payments will be made when required by U.S. law. Uncertain Tax Positions We are subject to various taxes in different jurisdictions, primarily the U.S. and the PRC. Management reviews regularly the adequacy of the provisions for taxes as they relate to our income and transactions. In order to assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. For the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. Net Income /(Loss) per Share Basic net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and, if dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares comprise shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards using the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with performance requirements is not considered before the performance targets are actually met. The computation of diluted net income /(loss) per share does not assume conversion, exercise, or contingent issuance of securities that would have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e. an increase in earnings per share amounts or a decrease in loss per share amounts) on net income /(loss) per share. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the numerator of diluted net income /(loss) per share, the net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is calculated as follows: Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. Before Sogous IPO Before Sogous IPO, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. was determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represented of the weighted average number of the Sogou Pre-IPO Preferred Shares and Pre-IPO Ordinary Shares, shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred shares under the if-converted method, and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and was not determined by allocating Sogous net income /(loss) to Sohu.com Inc. using the methodology for the calculation of net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders. 123 Table of Contents After Sogous IPO After Sogous IPO, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Sogou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Sogou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, the percentage of Sohu.com Inc.s shareholding in Sogou was calculated by treating convertible preferred shares issued by Sogou as having been converted at the beginning of the period and unvested Sogou share options with the performance targets achieved as well as vested but unexercised Sogou share options as having been exercised during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with a performance requirement was not considered before the performance targets were actually met. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Sogou shares and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted income /(loss) per share. As a result, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Changyou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Changyou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Changyou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, all of Changyous existing unvested restricted share units and share options, and vested restricted share units and share options that have not yet been settled, are treated as vested and settled by Changyou under the treasury stock method, causing the percentage of the weighted average number of shares held by Sohu.com Inc. in Changyou to decrease. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis decreased accordingly. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Changyou restricted share units and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Fair Value of Financial Instruments U.S. GAAP establishes a three-tier hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring the fair value of financial instruments. This hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The three-tier fair value hierarchy is: Level 1 observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 include other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the market place. Level 3 unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, long-term investments (including available-for-sale equity securities), accounts payable, accrued liabilities, receipts in advance and deferred revenue, short-term bank loans, other short-term liabilities, long-term bank loans and long-term accounts payable. Cash Equivalents Our cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. 124 Table of Contents Short-term Investments For investments in financial instruments with a variable interest rate indexed to the performance of underlying assets, we elected the fair value method at the date of initial recognition and carried these investments subsequently at fair value. Changes in fair values are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Accounts Receivable, Net The carrying value of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. We make estimations of the collectability of accounts receivable. Many factors are considered in estimating the general allowance, including reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, performing an aging analysis and a customer credit analysis, and analyzing historical bad debt records and current economic trends. Available-for-Sale Securities Investments in debt securities and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values not classified as trading securities or as held-to-maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities, and are included in long-term investments. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income or losses in the consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income during the period in which the gain or loss is realized. An impairment loss on the available-for-sale securities is recognized in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income when the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. Foreign exchange forward contracts Foreign exchange forward contracts are initially recognized on the date a foreign exchange forward contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at fair value. Changyou entered into such foreign exchange forward contracts in compliance with its risk management policy for the purpose of eliminating the negative impact on earnings and equity resulting from fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB. The instruments are marked-to-market at each period-end with the associated changes in fair value recognized in the line item Other income /(loss), net in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Other short-term liabilities or Prepaid and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The net cash inflow and outflow related to the settlement of the forward contracts are recorded in the line item Other investing activities under Cash flows from investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Equity Investments Investments in entities are recorded as equity investments under long-term investments. For entities over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method is applied, as there is no readily determinable fair value; for entities over which we can exercise significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or control, the equity method is applied. For cost method investments, we carry the investment at historical cost after the date of investment. For equity method investments, we adjust the carrying amount of an investment and recognize investment income or loss for our share of the earnings or loss of the investee after the date of investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include fixed assets and intangible assets. Fixed Assets Fixed assets mainly comprise office buildings, leasehold improvements, building improvements, vehicles, office furniture and computer equipment and hardware. Fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation with no residual value. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. 125 Table of Contents Fixed Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Office buildings 36-47 Leasehold improvements Lesser of term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets Vehicles 4-10 Office furniture 5 Computer equipment and hardware 2-5 Expenditure for maintenance and repairs is expensed as incurred. The gain or loss on the disposal of fixed assets is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell the relevant assets and is recognized in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Intangible Assets Intangible assets mainly comprise domain names and trademarks, developed technologies, computer software, purchased video content, cinema advertising slot rights and operating rights for licensed games. Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization with no residual value. Amortization of intangible assets other than purchased video content is computed using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of our intangible assets are listed below: Intangible Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Domain names and trademarks 4-30 Developed technologies 3-10 Computer software 1-5 Video content 6 months to 2 years, or over the applicable licensing period Cinema advertising slot rights over the contract terms Operating rights for licensed games over the contract terms Impairment of Long-lived Assets In accordance with ASC 360-10-35 , we review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long-lived assets using the projected discounted cash flow method at the asset group level. The estimation of future cash flows requires significant management judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and is subject to many factors. The discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in our business model is determined by our management. An impairment loss would be recorded if we determined that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Video Content Video content consists primarily of purchased video content and self-developed video content. Purchased video content is recognized as intangible assets. Amortization of purchased video content is computed based on the trend in viewership accumulation. For self-developed video content, production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted for are expensed as incurred, instead of being recorded as intangible assets. Sohu Video enters into nonmonetary transactions to exchange online broadcasting rights for purchased video content with other online video broadcasting companies. Under ASC 845 , the cost of a nonmonetary asset acquired in exchange for another nonmonetary asset is the fair value of the asset surrendered to obtain the acquired nonmonetary asset, and a gain or loss should be recognized on the exchange. The fair value of the asset received should be used to measure the cost if the fair value of the asset received is more reliable than the fair value of the asset surrendered. We record these nonmonetary exchanges at the fair values of the online broadcasting rights for purchased video content and recognize any net gain or loss from such exchange transactions. 126 Table of Contents Impairment of Video Content Purchased video content is stated at the lower of cost less accumulated amortization, or net realizable value (NRV). In accordance with ASC 920-350-35 , if managements expectations of the programming usefulness of a program, series, package, or program segment are revised downward, it may be necessary to write down unamortized cost to estimated NRV. A write-down from unamortized cost to a lower estimated NRV establishes a new cost basis. Accordingly, we measure the video contents impairment loss by comparing the contents carrying value to its NRV. An impairment loss will be recorded if the carrying value of video content is higher than its NRV. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of video content exceeds its NRV. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in our subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we report in our financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. If a measurement period adjustment is identified, we recognize the adjustment as part of the acquisition accounting. We increase or decrease the provisional amounts of identifiable assets or liabilities by means of increases or decreases in goodwill for measurement period adjustments. In accordance with ASC 350 , we do not amortize goodwill, but test it for impairment. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of October 1, and between annual tests when an event occurs or circumstances change that could indicate that the asset might be impaired. Under ASC 350-20-35 , we have the option to choose whether we will apply a qualitative assessment first and then a quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply a quantitative assessment directly. For reporting units applying a qualitative assessment first, we start the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is mandatory. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying the quantitative assessment, we perform the goodwill impairment test by quantitatively comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. After performing the assessment, if the carrying amounts of the reporting units are higher than their fair value, we perform the second step of the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate fair value using the income approach or the market approach. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, control premium, comparable companies multipliers, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a company during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances excluding transactions resulting from investments from owners and distributions to owners. Accumulated other comprehensive income, as presented on our consolidated balance sheets, includes a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment and an unrealized gain/(loss) on available-for-sale securities. Functional Currency and Foreign Currency Translation An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates, normally that is the currency of the environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. Managements judgment is essential to determine the functional currency by assessing various indicators, such as cash flows, sales price and market, expenses, financing and inter-company transactions and arrangements. The functional currency of Sohu.com Inc. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in the U.S., the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our subsidiaries and VIEs in other countries are the national currencies of those counties, rather than the U.S. dollar. 127 Table of Contents Foreign currency transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are re-measured at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at that date. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Financial statements of entities with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars, which is the reporting currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the current exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average of the exchange rates in effect during the reporting period. Shareholders equity accounts are translated using the historical exchange rates at the date the entry to shareholders equity was recorded, except for the change in retained earnings during the year, which is translated using the historical exchange rates used to translate each periods income statement. Differences resulting from translating a foreign currency to the reporting currency are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table presents our revenues by revenue source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2016 VS 2015 2017 VS 2016 Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Amount Incremental ratio Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 577,114 30 % $ 447,956 27 % $ 314,066 17 % $ (129,158 ) (22 )% $ (133,890 ) (30 )% Search and search-related advertising 539,521 28 % 597,133 36 % 801,199 43 % 57,612 11 % 204,066 34 % Subtotal of online advertising revenues 1,116,635 58 % 1,045,089 63 % 1,115,265 60 % (71,546 ) (6 )% 70,176 7 % Online games 636,846 33 % 395,709 24 % 449,533 24 % (241,137 ) (38 )% 53,824 14 % Others 183,610 9 % 209,633 13 % 296,164 16 % 26,023 14 % 86,531 41 % Total revenues $ 1,937,091 100 % $ 1,650,431 100 % $ 1,860,962 100 % $ (286,660 ) (15 )% $ 210,531 13 % Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues were $1.12 billion for 2017, compared to $1.05 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. Brand Advertising Revenues, Generated by Sohu and Changyou Brand advertising revenues were $314.1 million for 2017, compared to $448.0 million and $577.1 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year reduction in brand advertising revenues from 2016 to 2017 resulted mainly from reductions in the revenues of Sohu Video and Focus. The year-on-year reduction in brand advertising revenues from 2015 to 2016 resulted mainly from a reduction in the revenues of Sohu Video. 128 Table of Contents Sohu Sohu Media Portal Revenues from Sohu Media Portal were $152.0 million for 2017, compared to $181.8 million and $197.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. In 2017, while the slowdown in the growth of the economy in China shrank the budgets of brand advertisers, rapid growth in the number of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) advertising on Sohu Media Portal helped offset the impact to some extent. The number of advertisers for Sohu Media Portal was 6,680 for 2017, compared to 4,259 and 3,471, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $23,000 for 2017, compared to $43,000 and $57,000, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. Sohu Video Revenues from Sohu Video were $79.7 million for 2017, compared to $123.1 million and $212.8 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The changes were mainly attributable to reductions both in the number of advertisers and in the average amount spent per advertiser. The number of advertisers on Sohu Video was 324, 455 and 587, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $246,000, $271,000 and $363,000, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Focus Revenues from Focus were $57.3 million for 2017, compared to $103.7 million and $109.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The decreases from 2016 to 2017 were mainly due to the PRC governments implementation of tightened real estate policies at the beginning of 2017. Revenues from Focus were generated through the Fixed Price model and the E-commerce model. For the Fixed Price model, revenues were $39.8 million for 2017, compared to $49.0 million and $55.4 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. For the E-commerce model, revenues were $17.5 million for 2017, compared to $54.7 million and $54.2 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The number of developers with which we had cooperation arrangements was 949, 1,490 and 1,015, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The number of paying subscribers for membership services was 26,412, 95,613 and 94,149, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Changyou 17173.com Website Revenues from the 17173.com Website were $25.1 million for 2017, compared to $39.4 million and $57.1 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The decreases were primarily a result of fewer PC games and Web games being marketed on the 17173.com Website. The number of advertisers on the 17173.com Website was 170, 193 and 194, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The average amount spent per advertiser was approximately $148,000, $204,000 and $294,000, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. Other information Sales to our five largest advertisers and advertising agencies comprised approximately 23% of total brand advertising revenues for 2017, compared to 19% and 26%, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. As of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded $13.4 million, $12.3 million and $21.4 million, respectively, of receipts in advance from advertisers. As of December 31, 2017, we had obligations to provide, and advertisers had obligations to purchase, advertising services under existing contracts in the amount of $7.6 million that are required to be provided during the year ending December 31, 2018. 129 Table of Contents Search and Search-related advertising Revenues, Generated by Sogou Revenues from search and search-related advertising services were $801.2 million for 2017, compared to $597.1 million and $539.5 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year over year increase from 2016 to 2017 was mainly due to healthy traffic growth and improved monetization on mobile devices. The increase in revenues from search and search-related advertising services was mainly attributable to an increase in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services. Revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services accounted for approximately 83% of the total search and search-related advertising revenues for 2017, compared to 78% and 77%, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The growth in revenues from auction-based pay-for-click services resulted from increases both in the number of advertisers and in average revenue per advertiser (or ARPA). The number of auction-based pay-for-click advertisers was approximately 137,000 for 2017, compared to 116,000 and 114,000, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The ARPA for auction-based pay-for-click services was $4,856 for 2017, compared to $3,995 and $3,630, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The increase in auction-based pay-for-click advertisers was primarily driven by a successful expansion of our network of advertising agencies. The increase in ARPA was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of paid clicks. The total number of our paid clicks increased by 43% for 2017, primarily driven by strong growth in mobile paid clicks as a result of rapidly-growing mobile search traffic, and an improved click-through rate on mobile devices, which was partially offset by declining PC paid clicks. Online Game Revenues Generated by Changyou Revenues from the online game business were $449.5 million for 2017, compared to $395.7 million and $636.8 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The increase from 2016 to 2017 was mainly due to the revenue contribution of the mobile game Legacy TLBB, which was launched in the second quarter of 2017, and the decrease from 2015 to 2016 was mainly due to the natural decline in revenues of Changyous older games, and a decrease in Web game revenues upon the completion of the sale of the 7Road business during the third quarter of 2015. PC games and Mobile Games Revenues from PC games were $239.1 million for 2017, compared to $274.6 million and $387.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015, representing 53%, 69% and 61%, respectively, of Changyous online game revenues for the corresponding years. The dominant PC game operated by Changyou is TLBB. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from PC games was mainly due to the natural decline in revenues of TLBB, which is an older PC game. In 2017, the PC game TLBB generated $197.7 million in revenues, accounting for approximately 44% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 34% of Changyous total revenues and approximately 11% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Revenues from mobile games were $208.4 million for 2017, compared to $116.8 million and $203.3 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The dominant mobile game operated by Changyou was Legacy TLBB. The year-on-year increase in mobile game revenues for 2017 was $91.6 million, mainly driven by the the revenue contribution of Legacy TLBB. The year-on-year decrease in mobile game revenues for 2016 was $86.5 million, mainly due to the natural decline in revenues of TLBB 3D, which is an older mobile game. In 2017, the mobile game Legacy TLBB generated $139.5 million in revenues, accounting for approximately 31% of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 24% of Changyous total revenues, and approximately 8% of the Sohu Groups total revenues. The following table sets forth certain operating data for Changyous PC games and mobile games for the periods indicated: 130 Table of Contents Average Monthly Active Accounts (1) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 Three Months Ended December 31 (in millions) PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games 2015 4.9 4.4 4.4 5.7 4.1 2.4 3.6 3.7 2016 3.0 3.2 2.9 2.4 2.7 2.8 2.5 1.6 2017 2.4 1.1 2.4 7.4 2.3 5.2 2.4 3.1 Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts (2) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 Three Months Ended December 31 (in millions) PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games PC games Mobile games 2015 1.1 0.9 1.1 1.4 1.3 0.6 1.2 0.9 2016 1.1 0.8 1.0 0.6 1.0 0.7 1.0 0.4 2017 0.9 0.3 0.9 2.5 0.8 1.4 0.8 1.2 (1) Average Monthly Active Accounts for a given period refers to the number of registered accounts that were logged in to these games at least once during the period. (2) Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts for a given quarter refers to the number of accounts from which game points are used at least once during the quarter. Web Games Revenues from Web games were $2.0 million for 2017, compared to $4.3 million and $45.9 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The decrease in Web games revenues from 2015 to 2016 was mainly due to a decrease in Web game revenues upon the completion of the sale of the 7Road business during the third quarter of 2015. Other Revenues Revenues from other services were $296.2 million for 2017, compared to $209.6 million and $183.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The $86.6 million year-on-year increase in 2017 was mainly attributable to a $22.9 million increase in revenues from the cinema advertisement business, a $20.3 million increase from IVAS and a $16.9 million increase from paid subscription services. The $26.0 million year-on-year increase in 2016 was mainly attributable to a $26.0 million increase in revenues from the cinema advertisement business, a $14.3 million increase in revenues from interactive broadcasting services and a $9.2 million increase in revenues from paid subscription services, offset by a $22.8 million decrease in revenues from the film Jian Bing Man, which was released in 2015. 131 Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues by source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2016 VS 2015 2017 VS 2016 Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Amount Incremental ratio Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 383,187 45 % $ 371,085 43 % $ 363,592 35 % $ (12,102 ) (3 )% $ (7,493 ) (2 )% Search and search-related advertising 238,944 28 % 290,158 34 % 412,904 40 % 51,214 21 % 122,746 42 % Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 622,131 73 % 661,243 77 % 776,496 75 % 39,112 6 % 115,253 17 % Online games 156,315 18 % 96,168 11 % 62,775 6 % (60,147 ) (38 )% (33,393 ) (35 )% Others 80,618 9 % 102,389 12 % 195,895 19 % 21,771 27 % 93,506 91 % Total cost of revenues $ 859,064 100 % $ 859,800 100 % $ 1,035,166 100 % $ 736 0 % $ 175,366 20 % Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues was $776.5 million for 2017, compared to $661.2 million and $622.1 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues was $363.6 million for 2017, compared to $371.1 million and $383.2 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year decrease for 2017 was $7.5 million, which mainly consisted of a $17.0 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, a $9.8 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $2.9 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses, a $2.2 million decrease in travelling and entertainment expenses, and a $1.2 million decrease in facilities expenses, offset by a $27.7 million increase in content and license costs resulting primarily from impairment charge related to video content in 2017. In 2017, we recognized impairment losses of $70.6 million with respect to Sohu Video, mainly due to Sohu Videos restructuring of its sales team and a strategy shift from purchasing expensive head content to self-producing content. Revenues for 2017 did not meet managements expectations. The year-on-year decrease for 2016 was $12.1 million, which mainly consisted of a $22.3 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, a $4.1 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $1.7 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses and a $1.2 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, offset by a $18.8 million increase in content and license costs, and an impairment of purchased video content. Our brand advertising gross margin was negative 16% for 2017, compared to 17% and 34%, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-over-year decrease in our brand advertising gross margin for 2017 was mainly due to decreased revenues as well as impairment losses recognized with respect to video content in 2017. Cost of Search and Search-related Advertising Revenues Cost of search and search-related advertising revenues was $412.9 million for 2017, compared to $290.2 million and $238.9 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. 132 Table of Contents The year-on-year increase for 2017 was $122.7 million, which mainly consisted of a $101.2 million increase in traffic acquisition costs and a $13.8 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. The year-on-year increase for 2016 was $51.3 million, which mainly consisted of a $40.8 million increase in traffic acquisition costs and a $7.0 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. Our search and search-related advertising gross margin was 48% for 2017, compared to 51% and 56%, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The decrease in our search and search-related advertising gross margin for 2017 was mainly due to higher traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of search and search-related advertising revenues. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues was $62.8 million for 2017, compared to $96.2 million and $156.3 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year decrease in cost of online game revenues for 2017 was $33.4 million. The decrease included a $16.3 million decrease in revenue-sharing payments to mobile APP stores, a $5.7 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, a $4.9 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $2.9 million decrease in revenue-sharing payments to third-party developers, and a $1.0 million decrease in content and license costs. The year-on-year decrease in cost of online game revenues for 2016 was $60.1 million. The decrease included a $35.4 million decrease in revenue-sharing payments to mobile APP stores, a $6.4 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $3.4 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs, a $2.4 million decrease in content and license costs, and a $2.2 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses. Our online game gross margin was 86%, 76% and 75%, respectively, for 2017, 2016 and 2015. The increase in our online game gross margin was mainly due to the successful launch of Legacy TLBB in the second quarter of 2017, which has a high gross margin as revenue is recognized on a net basis after revenue-sharing with the third-party licensee operator. Cost of Other Revenues Cost of other revenues was $195.9 million for 2017, compared to $102.4 million and $80.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year increase for 2017 was $93.5 million compared to 2016, which was mainly due to a $39.0 million increase in payments by Changyou to theaters for pre-film screening advertising slots, a $16.9 million increase in content and license costs related to paid subscription services, and a $15.2 million increase in Sogous smart hardware products costs. The year-on-year increase for 2016 was $21.8 million compared to 2015, which was mainly due to a $16.7 million increase in cinema advertising cost. Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses by nature and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Year ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2016 VS 2015 2017 VS 2016 Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Amount Incremental ratio Operating expenses: Product development $ 398,143 40 % $ 353,144 39 % $ 412,173 40 % $ (44,999 ) (11 )% $ 59,029 17 % Sales and marketing 383,931 39 % 434,780 48 % 413,045 40 % 50,849 13 % (21,735 ) (5 )% General and administrative 173,160 17 % 119,841 13 % 122,874 12 % (53,319 ) (31 )% 3,033 3 % Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 40,324 4 % 0 0 % 86,882 8 % (40,324 ) (100 )% 86,882 0 % Total operating expenses $ 995,558 100 % $ 907,765 100 % $ 1,034,974 100 % $ (87,793 ) (9 )% $ 127,209 14 % 133 Table of Contents Product Development Expenses Product development expenses were $412.2 million for 2017, compared to $353.1 million and $398.1 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year increase for 2017 was $59.1 million, representing a year-on-year increase of 17%. The increase mainly consisted of a $35.2 million increase in salary and benefits expenses, a $14.4 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $5.4 million increase in technical service fees, and a $2.1 million increase in travelling and entertainment expenses. The year-on-year decrease for 2016 was $45.0 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 11%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $25.6 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $10.2 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, a $7.8 million decrease in impairment provision for operating rights for licensed games with technological feasibility, and a $5.2 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses, offset by a $4.8 million increase in technical service fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses were $413.0 million for 2017, compared to $434.8 million and $383.9 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year decrease for 2017 was $21.8 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 5%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $20.5 million decrease in advertising and promotional expenses, and a $5.7 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, offset by a $3.5 million increase in share-based compensation expense. The year-on-year increase for 2016 was $50.8 million, representing year-on-year growth of 13%. The increase mainly consisted of a $73.3 million increase in advertising and promotional expenses, offset by a $18.0 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, and a $1.5 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $122.9 million for 2017, compared to $119.8 million and $173.2 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The year-on-year increase for 2017 was $3.1 million, representing a year-on-year increase of 3%. The increase mainly consisted of a $8.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense, a $2.2 million increase in bad debts offset by a $4.2 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $1.6 million decrease in professional fees, and a $1.4 million decrease in facilities expenses. The year-on-year decrease for 2016 was $53.3 million, representing a year-on-year decrease of 31%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $22.1 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, a $14.6 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $7.4 million decrease in facilities expenses, a $6.2 million decrease in professional fees, and a $3.3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses. Goodwill Impairment and Impairment of Intangible Acquired as Part of Business Acquisitions In 2017, we recognized goodwill impairment associated with MoboTap, which is operated by Changyou. For the online card and board games conducted by MoboTap, due to reinforced restrictions the Chinese regulatory authorities imposed on online card and board games, some of our key distribution partners informed us that they had decided to stop the distribution and promotion of card and board games in the third quarter of 2017, which had an adverse impact on MoboTaps current performance, and also increased the uncertainty for its future operations and cash flow. As a result, we determined that it was unlikely that MoboTap would gain users and grow its online card and board games revenues in China. Our management performed an impairment test in the third quarter of 2017 using the discounted cash flow method, and impairment charges of $86.9 million were recognized to reflect the fair value of the MoboTap business, of which an $83.5 million impairment loss was recognized for goodwill and a $3.4 million impairment loss was recognized for intangible assets. 134 Table of Contents In 2016, there was no goodwill impairment or impairment of intangibles via acquisitions of businesses. In 2015, we recognized $40.3 million of goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible acquired as part of business acquisition. This $40.3 million impairment loss consisted primarily of a $29.6 million goodwill impairment loss and a $8.9 million intangible assets impairment loss related to MoboTap. As the financial performance of the Dolphin Browser operated by MoboTap was below original expectations, Changyous management concluded that the Dolphin Browser was unable to provide expected synergies with Changyous platform channel business. Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense was recognized in costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively, as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Share-based compensation expense 2015 2016 2017 Cost of revenues $ 1,748 $ 366 $ 198 Product development expenses 19,344 9,184 23,547 Sales and marketing expenses 3,054 2,394 5,915 General and administrative expenses 29,297 7,176 15,817 $ 53,443 $ 19,120 $ 45,477 Share-based compensation expense recognized for share awards of Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, Changyou and Sohu Video was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, Share-based compensation expense 2015 2016 2017 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 27,811 $ 2,761 $ 652 For Sogou share-based awards (2) 10,310 8,802 27,729 For Changyou share-based awards 15,024 8,402 17,394 For Sohu Video share-based awards (1) 298 (845 ) (298 ) $ 53,443 $ 19,120 $ 45,477 Note (1): The negative amount resulted from re-measured compensation expense based on the then-current fair value of the awards on the reporting date. Note (2): Compensation expense for Sogou share-based awards also includes compensation expense for Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search and search-related businesses and compensation expense of $4.0 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 in connection with Sogous repurchase of Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares from the former President and Chief Financial Officer of the Sohu Group, which is equal to the excess of the repurchase price over the fair value of the Sogou Pre-IPO Class A Ordinary Shares as of the repurchase date. There was no capitalized share-based compensation expense for 2015, 2016 and 2017. As of December 31, 2017, unrecognized share-based compensation expense for Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou and Changyou share-based awards was as follows (in thousands): Unrecognized share-based compensation expense As of December 31, 2017 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 0 For Sogou share-based awards (3) 8,776 For Changyou share-based awards 4,837 $ 13,613 135 Table of Contents Note (3): Includes the unrecognized compensation expense for employees who transferred from Tencent with Soso search and search-related businesses. Operating Profit /(Loss) We had an operating loss of $209.2 million for 2017, compared to an operating loss of $117.1 million for 2016 and an operating profit of $82.5 million for 2015. Other Income /(Loss) Other income was $6.7 million for 2017, compared to other loss of $10.7 million and other income of $74.5 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The changes were mainly due to a $27.8 million one-time expense recognized in the second quarter of 2016 related to a donation by Sogou to Tsinghua University related to setting up a joint research institute focusing on artificial intelligence technology, as well as a $5.8 million impairment loss recognized in the third quarter of 2017 related to Keyeast. Interest Income Interest income was $24.1 million for 2017, compared to $22.5 million and $30.6 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. Interest Expense Interest expense was $4.1 million for 2017, compared to $1.4 million and $7.2 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The decrease in 2016 was primarily due to the repayment of bank loans. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $273.1 million for 2017, compared to $21.1 million and $76.9 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. The increase in 2017 resulted primarily from a one-time transition tax of $219 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017 that represented managements estimate of the amount of U.S. corporate income tax based on the deemed repatriation to the United States of Sohus share of previously deferred earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries of Sohu mandated by the U.S. Tax Reform, offset by a reduction of $4 million in liability for deferred U.S. income tax as a result of the U.S. Tax Reform, and to a lesser extent from an increase in online game revenues as a result of the launch of Changyous mobile game Legacy TLBB in the second quarter of 2017. We may elect to pay the one-time transition tax over eight years commencing in April 2019, or in a single lump-sum payment. Net Income /(Loss) As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss of $470 million for 2017, compared to a net loss of $115.0 million and net income of $108.9 million, respectively, for 2016 and 2015. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Our net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $84.5 million for 2017, compared to a net income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $109.0 million for 2016, and a net income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $146.5 million for 2015. Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shareholders Dividend or deemed dividend to noncontrolling Sogou Per-IPO Series A Preferred shareholders was nil for 2017, compared to nil and $11.9 million, for 2016 and 2015. The $11.9 million deemed dividend for 2015 resulted from Sogous repurchase of 6.4 million Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares from noncontrolling shareholders in September 2015. The deemed dividend was deemed to have been contributed by Sohu.com Inc., as a holder of ordinary shares of Sogou, representing a portion of the differences between the prices Sogou paid to Photon for Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares and the carrying amounts of Sogou Pre-IPO Series A Preferred Shares in our consolidated financial statements. 136 Table of Contents Net Loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. As a result of the foregoing, we had a net loss of $554.5 million attributable to Sohu.com Inc. for 2017, compared to a net loss of $224.0 million and $49.6 million attributable to Sohu.com Inc., respectively, for 2016 and 2015. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2017. The data have been derived from our consolidated financial statements and, in our managements opinion, they have been prepared on substantially the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the financial results for the periods presented. This information should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The operating results in any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. For a discussion of changes in the basis of presentation for the periods presented below, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations. 137 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Mar. 31, Jun. 30, Sep. 30, Dec. 31, Mar. 31, Jun. 30, Sep. 30, Dec. 31, 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 (Unaudited, in thousands, except per share data) Revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 125,503 $ 112,887 $ 110,871 $ 98,695 $ 81,412 $ 86,071 $ 74,832 $ 71,751 Search and search-related advertising 133,814 160,152 150,667 152,500 142,035 186,747 225,363 247,054 Subtotal of online advertising revenues 259,317 273,039 261,538 251,195 223,447 272,818 300,195 318,805 Online games 102,529 99,227 98,553 95,400 85,325 122,398 132,427 109,383 Others 46,106 47,872 50,491 65,164 65,331 65,952 83,439 81,442 Total revenues 407,952 420,138 410,582 411,759 374,103 461,168 516,061 509,630 Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising 85,636 93,654 102,137 89,658 80,197 124,730 75,733 82,932 Search and search-related advertising 62,092 71,998 76,457 79,611 82,107 96,692 115,422 118,683 Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 147,728 165,652 178,594 169,269 162,304 221,422 191,155 201,615 Online games 26,133 25,380 23,719 20,936 16,505 11,613 17,560 17,097 Others 18,986 21,226 20,571 41,606 40,070 45,159 53,679 56,987 Total cost of revenues 192,847 212,258 222,884 231,811 218,879 278,194 262,394 275,699 Gross profit 215,105 207,880 187,698 179,948 155,224 182,974 253,667 233,931 Operating expenses: Product development 82,679 88,959 90,007 91,499 84,098 100,146 105,162 122,767 Sales and marketing 90,047 117,966 110,584 116,183 90,086 94,845 111,935 116,179 General and administrative 27,607 29,650 38,670 23,914 28,350 27,657 31,038 35,829 Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of business acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0 0 86,882 0 Total operating expenses 200,333 236,575 239,261 231,596 202,534 222,648 335,017 274,775 Operating profit /(loss) 14,772 (28,695 ) (51,563 ) (51,648 ) (47,310 ) (39,674 ) (81,350 ) (40,844 ) Other income /(loss) 3,924 (24,573 ) 3,678 6,258 4,099 3,306 (5,068 ) 4,321 Interest income 5,837 5,284 6,327 5,051 4,471 5,813 6,497 7,357 Interest expense (698 ) (244 ) (209 ) (205 ) (175 ) (205 ) (1,141 ) (2,567 ) Exchange difference (1,022 ) 3,866 702 9,257 (766 ) (4,528 ) (5,032 ) (4,059 ) Income /(loss) before income tax expense 22,813 (44,362 ) (41,065 ) (31,287 ) (39,681 ) (35,288 ) (86,094 ) (35,792 ) Income tax expense 11,868 2,430 974 5,800 10,672 12,764 15,927 233,785 Net income /(loss) 10,945 (46,792 ) (42,039 ) (37,087 ) (50,353 ) (48,052 ) (102,021 ) (269,577 ) Less: Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest shareholders 31,231 16,232 32,775 28,810 17,895 40,131 1,939 24,558 Net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (20,286 ) $ (63,024 ) $ (74,814 ) $ (65,897 ) $ (68,248 ) $ (88,183 ) $ (103,960 ) $ (294,135 ) Basic net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (0.52 ) $ (1.63 ) $ (1.93 ) $ (1.70 ) $ (1.76 ) $ (2.27 ) $ (2.67 ) $ (7.56 ) Shares used in computing basic net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,666 38,691 38,728 38,739 38,811 38,855 38,877 38,888 Diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. $ (0.53 ) $ (1.64 ) $ (1.94 ) $ (1.71 ) $ (1.77 ) $ (2.28 ) $ (2.67 ) $ (7,57 ) Shares used in computing diluted net loss per share attributable to Sohu.com Inc. 38,666 38,691 38,728 38,739 38,811 38,855 38,877 38,888 138 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Resources Analysis Liquidity Sources and Balances Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows generated from our operations. Cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits with original maturities of three months or less, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash. Short-term investments comprise investment instruments issued by commercial banks in China, with a variable interest rate indexed to performance of underlying assets and maturity dates within one year. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.36 billion, restricted cash of $3.9 million, and short-term investments of $818.9 million. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $428.8 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $935.3 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Of the cash and cash equivalents held in financial institutions inside Mainland China, $43.6 million was held by our VIEs and $385.2 million was held by our PRC-based subsidiaries. We believe our current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs (net cash used in operating activities), commitments, capital expenditures, and investment activities over the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions and other future developments, or changes in general economic conditions. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Chinas Regulatory Environment Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use our revenues effectively, - Our offshore entities may need to rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by the Mainland China-based subsidiaries of our subsidiaries Sohu.com Limited, Sogou, and Changyou to fund any cash requirements those offshore entities may have. Our offshore entities may not be able to obtain cash from distributions because our subsidiaries and VIEs in Mainland China are subject to restrictions imposed by PRC law on paying such dividends and making other payments, and - Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC profit appropriation and PRC withholding tax, and Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Although the Sohu Group holds substantial amounts of cash and cash equivalents, a significant portion of such cash and cash equivalents is held by Changyou and Sogou, and it can be difficult for Sohu to have access to the portion held by Changyou and Sogou. See also Restrictions and Limitations on Cash Available to Sohu.com Inc. below and