ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As used in this report, references to us, we, our, our company, our Group, the Sohu Group, the Group, and Sohu.com are to Sohu.com Inc. and, except where the context requires otherwise, our wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) Sohu.com Limited, Sohu.com (Hong Kong) Limited (Sohu Hong Kong), All Honest International Limited (All Honest), Sohu.com (Game) Limited (Sohu Game), Go2Map Inc., Sohu.com (Search) Limited (Sohu Search), Sogou Inc. (Sogou), Sogou (BVI) Limited (Sogou BVI), Sogou Hong Kong Limited (Sogou HK), Vast Creation Advertising Media Services Limited (Vast Creation), Sogou Technology Hong Kong Limited, Fox Video Investment Holding Limited (Video Investment), Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video), Fox Video (HK) Limited (Video HK), Focus Investment Holding Limited, Sohu Focus Limited, Sohu Focus (HK) Limited, Beijing Sohu New Era Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Era), Beijing Sohu Software Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu Interactive Software Co., Ltd., Go2Map Software (Beijing) Co., Ltd., Beijing Sogou Technology Development Co., Ltd. (Sogou Technology), Beijing Sogou Network Technology Co., Ltd (Sogou Network), Fox Information Technology (Tianjin) Limited (Video Tianjin), Beijing Sohu New Media Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu Media), Beijing Focus Time Advertising Media Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu New Momentum Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Sohu New Momentum), Beijing Century High Tech Investment Co., Ltd. (High Century), Beijing Heng Da Yi Tong Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Heng Da Yi Tong, formerly known as Beijing Sohu Entertainment Culture Media Co., Ltd.), Beijing Sohu Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sohu Internet), Beijing GoodFeel Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sogou Information Service Co., Ltd. (Sogou Information), Beijing 21 East Culture Development Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu Donglin Advertising Co., Ltd.(Donglin), Beijing Pilot New Era Advertising Co., Ltd. (Pilot New Era), Beijing Focus Yiju Network Information Technology Co., Ltd., SohuPay Science and Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Sohu Dianjin Information Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Yi He Jia Xun Information Technology Co., Ltd., Tianjin Jinhu Culture Development Co., Ltd. (Tianjin Jinhu), Guangzhou Qianjun Network Technology Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou Qianjun), Shenzhen Shi Ji Guang Su Information Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Sogou Easypay Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Shi Ji Si Su Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Intelligence World Network Technology Co., Ltd., Chongqing Qogir Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd., SendCloud Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Interactive Information Service Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Xin Gan Xian Information Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Focus Real Estate Agency Co., Ltd. and our independently-listed majority-owned subsidiary Changyou.com Limited (Changyou, formerly known as TL Age Limited) as well as the following direct and indirect subsidiaries and VIEs of Changyou: Changyou.com (HK) Limited (Changyou HK) formerly known as TL Age Hong Kong Limited), Changyou.com Webgames (HK) Limited (Changyou HK Webgames), Changyou.com Gamepower (HK) Limited, ICE Entertainment (HK) Limited (ICE HK), Changyou.com Gamestar (HK) Limited, Changyou.com (US) LLC. (formerly known as AmazGame Entertainment (US) Inc.), Changyou.com Korea Limited, Changyou.com India Private Limited, Changyou BLM HZMETLER TCARET LMTED RKET, Kylie Enterprises Limited, Mobogarden Enterprises Limited, Heroic Vision Holdings Limited, TalkTalk Limited, RaidCall (HK) Limited, 7Road.com Limited (7Road), 7Road.com HK Limited (7Road HK), Changyou.com (TH) Limited, Changyou.com Rus Limited, PT.CHANGYOU TECHNOLOGY INDONESIA, Changyou Middle East FZ-LLC, Changyou.com Technology Brazil Desenvolvimento De Programas LTDA, Greative Entertainment Limited (formerly known as Greative Digital Limited), Glory Loop Limited (Glory Loop), MoboTap Inc. (MoboTap, a Cayman Islands company), MoboTap Inc. Limited (MoboTap HK), MoboTap Inc. (a Delaware corporation), Dolphin Browser Inc., TMobi Limited (formerly known as Muse Entertainment Limited), Dstore Technology Limited, Mobo Information Technology Pte. Ltd., Global Cool Limited, Changyou Mobo Glint Limited, Beijing AmazGame Age Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (AmazGame), Beijing Changyou Skyline Property Management Co., Ltd, Beijing Cruise stars Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Gamespace Software Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamespace), ICE Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (ICE Information), Beijing Changyou RaidCall Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (RaidCall), Beijing Yang Fan Jing He Information Consulting Co., Ltd. (Yang Fan Jing He), Shanghai Jingmao Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Shanghai Jingmao), Shanghai Hejin Data Consulting Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Jingmao Film & Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (Beijing Jingmao), Beijing Gamease Age Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Gamease), Beijing Guanyou Gamespace Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Guanyou Gamespace), Beijing Doyo Internet Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Zhi Hui You Information Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai ICE Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai ICE), Shenzhen 7Road Network Technologies Co., Ltd. (7Road Technology), Beijing Changyou Star Digital Technology Co., Ltd (Changyou Star), Beijing Changyou Creation Information Technology Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Beijing Changyou e-pay Co. Ltd.), Beijing Changyou Aishouxin Ecological Technology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Brilliant Imagination Technologies Co., Ltd., Fujian Changyou Heguang Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Baina Information Technology Co., Ltd., Baina Zhiyuan (Beijing) Technology Co., Ltd. (Beijing Baina Technology), Beijing Anzhuoxing Technology Co., Ltd., Baina Zhiyuan (Chengdu) Technology Co., Ltd., Chengdu Xingyu Technology Co., Ltd., Baina (Wuhan) Information Technology Co., Ltd. (Wuhan Baina Information), Wuhan Xingyu Technology Co., Ltd., Wuhan Hualian Chuangke Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Changyou Ledong Internet Technology Co., Ltd., and Beijing Global Cool Technology Co., Ltd., and these references should be interpreted accordingly. Unless otherwise specified, references to China or PRC refer to the Peoples Republic of China and do not include the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Macau Special Administrative Region or Taiwan. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words expect, anticipate, intend, believe, or similar language. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information set forth under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 2, 2015, as updated by Part II Item 1A of this report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. -47- Table of Contents OVERVIEW Sohu.com Inc. (NASDAQ: SOHU), a Delaware corporation organized in 1996, is a leading Chinese online media, search and game service group providing comprehensive online products and services on PCs and mobile devices in the Peoples Republic of China (the PRC or China). Our businesses are conducted by Sohu.com Inc. and its subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) (collectively referred to as the Sohu Group or the Group). The Sohu Group consists of Sohu, which when referred to in this report, unless the context requires otherwise, excludes the businesses and the corresponding subsidiaries and VIEs of Sogou Inc. (Sogou) and Changyou.com Limited (Changyou), Sogou and Changyou. Sogou and Changyou are indirect controlled subsidiaries of Sohu.com Inc. Sohu is a leading Chinese language online media content and services provider. Sogou is a leading online search, client software and mobile Internet product provider in China. Changyou is a leading online game developer and operator in China as measured by the popularity of its PC game TLBB and its mobile game TLBB 3D, and engages primarily in the development, operation and licensing of online games for PCs and mobile devices. Most of our operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned China-based subsidiaries and VIEs. Factors and Trends Affecting our Business With the accelerated shift in user activities from desktop computers (PCs) to mobile devices and an increase in the number of Internet users, the usage of various kinds of mobile Internet services continued to accelerate at a fast pace during the third quarter of 2015. At Sohu, we focused our efforts on developing a portfolio of leading mobile products across our business lines that we believed our users would like. Our key products continued to gain traction. For example, during the month ended September 30, 2015, mobile traffic for our online video business contributed more than 60% of our total traffic. Sogou maintained rapid growth in search traffic and as of the end of September 2015 mobile search traffic had surpassed PC search traffic for the first time. The monetization of mobile traffic is also progressing well, as advertisers have recognized the value of the mobile Internet. For the third quarter of 2015, the soft Chinese macro economy impacted our brand advertising business, as traditional brand advertisers shrank their marketing budgets. The depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar also had an adverse effect on our reported financial results, which are denominated in the U.S. dollar. For Sohu Media Portal, the transition from a PC portal to a leading mobile news platform is well on track. We focused our efforts on enhancing the features within our leading mobile news App and improving the overall content quality. Our lean but highly efficient editorial team now mainly focuses on reporting general and business news, while we invited a vast number of outside contributors, who generated hundreds of articles on a daily basis. Online video is one of the top Internet services in China, and Sohu Video is a leading video service provider in China. We noted an accelerating trend away from television toward streaming video, which is important specifically to Sohus online video business, as advertising dollars shift from television to online video. In the meantime, as competition intensified, the major players stepped up their content spending to attract viewers. The average licensing fee for premium content grew significantly as compared to 2014. We expect that the industry-wide unfavorable cost structure will continue to overshadow the profitability outlook for the entire industry, including us, in the near term. The recent slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy also had an impact on our video business. Big advertisers became more conservative as they tended to prioritize their reduced budgets to the best-known traditional programs, a category in which we have consciously scaled down investment given unacceptable price inflation. As a result, for the third quarter of 2015, our video advertising revenues decelerated. We remain optimistic about the long-term prospects of the online video business, which is a strategic key business line for Sohu. For 2015, our content strategy has been to rationalize our spending on licensed content while we focus more on original and professionally-generated content. On September 16, 2013, we entered into a strategic cooperation with Tencent Holding Limited (Tencent Holding Limited together with its subsidiaries, Tencent) for our search and Web directory business, in connection with which Tencent invested in Sogou. We believe that this strategic cooperation has reinforced Sogou as a leader in the large and fast-growing China market for search and Internet services, particularly for the mobile end. In the online search sector, Sogou is one of the top three PC search players in China, and we have demonstrated greater potential in mobile search. In the third quarter, we further differentiated our mobile search services while we continued to deepen our cooperation with Tencents social platforms, connecting with more unique and high-quality content. In the third quarter of 2015, aggregate paid clicks and cost-per-click continued to grow, with improving mobile monetization. -48- Table of Contents For Changyous PC game business, Tian Long Ba Bu (TLBB), a PC game which we developed and currently operate in China, continued to deliver solid revenues and profitability, although it slowed consistent with its status as a mature game. Revenue contribution from PC games launched recently offset declines in Changyous older PC games in the third quarter of 2015. However, as market demand for new PC games continues to fall, Changyou will shift more resources towards mobile game development. For Changyous mobile game business, revenues from TLBB 3D, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2014, declined sequentially by roughly 30%. A new expansion pack is planned for launch in the fourth quarter, which Changyou management hopes will slow down the decline in revenue and extend the games life span. Two new in-house developed mobile games are at the final stage of beta-testing and are scheduled for launch in the fourth quarter of 2015 or the first quarter of 2016. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, the PC games and mobile games that Changyou operates had approximately 6.5 million total average monthly active accounts and approximately 1.9 million total average monthly active paying accounts. Our Business Through the operation of Sohu, Sogou and Changyou, we generate online advertising revenues (including brand advertising revenues and search and search-related revenues (which we formerly referred to as search and Web directory revenues), online games revenues and others revenues. Online advertising and online games are our core businesses. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, total revenues generated by Sohu, Sogou and Changyou were approximately $522.1 million, including: Sohu: $133.6 million in brand advertising revenues, of which $51.2 million was from Sohu Media Portal, $55.4 million was from Sohu Video, and $27.0 million was from Focus; and $37.6 million in others revenues, mainly attributable to the filming business from the film Jian Bing Man and mobile-related services. Total revenues generated by Sohu were $171.2 million. Sogou: $147.9 million in search and search-related revenues (formerly referred to as search and Web directory revenues); and $14.4 million in others revenues, primarily attributable to Sogous offering of Internet value-added services (or IVAS) with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games as well as other services and products provided to users. Total revenues generated by Sogou were $162.3 million. Changyou: $152.5 million in online game revenues; $17.9 million in brand advertising revenues, mainly attributable to Changyous 17173.com Website; and $18.2 million in others revenues attributable to Changyous cinema advertising revenues, and Changyous operation of the platform channel business, including RaidCall, the Dolphin Browser and other software applications. Total revenues generated by Changyou were $188.6 million. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, our total brand advertising revenues were $151.5 million, total search and search-related revenues were $147.9 million, total online game revenues were $152.5 million, and total others revenues were $70.2 million. Sohus Business Brand Advertising Business Sohus main business is the brand advertising business, which offers to users, over our matrices of Chinese language online media, various content, products and services across multiple Internet-enabled devices, such as PCs, mobile phones and tablets. The majority of our products and services are provided through Sohu Media Portal, Sohu Video and Focus. Sohu Media Portal. Sohu Media Portal is a leading online news and information provider in China. Sohu Media Portal provides users comprehensive content through www.sohu.com for PCs, the mobile portal m.sohu.com and the mobile phone application Sohu News APP; -49- Table of Contents Sohu Video. Sohu Video (tv.sohu.com) is a leading online video service provider in China through tv.sohu.com for PCs and the mobile phone application Sohu Video APP; and Focus. Focus (www.focus.cn) is a leading online real estate information provider in China. Revenues generated by the brand advertising business are classified as brand advertising revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Others Business Sohu also engages in the others business, which includes the filming business, mobile-related services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, and paid subscription services. Revenues generated by Sohu from the others business are classified as others revenues in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous Business Search and Search-related Business The search and search-related business primarily offers advertisers pay-for-click services, as well as online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou. Pay-for-click services enable advertisers promotional links to be displayed on the Sogou search result pages and Sogou Website Alliance members Websites where the links are relevant to the subject and content of such Web pages. Both pay-for-click services and online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou expand distribution of our advertisers Website links and advertisements by leveraging traffic on Sogou Website Alliance members Websites. Our search and search-related business benefits significantly from our collaboration with Tencent, which provides us access to traffic generated from users of products and services provided by Tencent. Revenues generated by the search and search-related business are classified as search and search-related revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Others Business Sogou also engages in the others business by primarily offering IVAS with respect to the operation of Web games and mobile games developed by third parties as well as other services and products provided to users. Revenues generated by Sogou from the others business are classified as others revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Changyous Business Changyou has three businesses, consisting of the online game business, the platform channel business and the others business. Online Game Business Changyous online game business offers to game players PC games which are online games designed primarily for playing on PCs; mobile games, which are played on mobile devices with an Internet connection; and Web games, which are online games played over the Internet using a Web browser. Changyous PC games and mobile games are mainly MMOGs, which are interactive online games that may be played simultaneously by hundreds of thousands of game players. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where game players play the games for free but can purchase virtual items to enhance the game-playing experience. Revenues derived from the operation of online games are classified as online game revenues in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Platform Channel Business Changyou also owns and operates a number of Web properties and software applications for PCs and mobile devices (collectively referred to as platform channels), including the 17173.com Website, one of the leading information portals for game players in China; RaidCall, which provides online music and entertainment services, primarily in Taiwan; and the Dolphin Browser, a gateway to a host of user activities on mobile devices, with the majority of its users based in Europe, Russia and Japan. Changyous platform channels serve various needs of its users and help Changyou reach more user communities and conduct cross-promotions of its games and services. Revenues generated by 17173.com Website are classified as brand advertising revenues, and revenues generated by RaidCall and the Dolphin Browser are classified as others revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. -50- Table of Contents Others Business Changyou also operates a cinema advertising business, which consists of Changyou offering slots for advertisements to be shown in cinemas before the screening of movies. Revenues generated by Changyous cinema advertising business are classified as others revenues in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations relates to our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Identified below are the accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates and judgments, and those that we believe are the most critical to fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements. Basis of Consolidation Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Sohu.com Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. VIE Consolidation Our VIEs are wholly or partially owned by certain of our employees as nominee shareholders. For our consolidated VIEs, management made evaluations of the relationships between us and our VIEs and the economic benefit flow of contractual arrangements with the VIEs. In connection with such evaluation, management also took into account the fact that, as a result of such contractual arrangements, we control the shareholders voting interests in these VIEs. As a result of such evaluation, management concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of our consolidated VIEs. Our Group has two VIEs that are not consolidated, since we are not the primary beneficiary. Noncontrolling Interest Recognition Noncontrolling interests are recognized to reflect the portion of the equity of majority-owned subsidiaries and VIEs which is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the controlling shareholder. Currently, the noncontrolling interests in our consolidated financial statements primarily consist of noncontrolling interests for Sogou and Changyou. Noncontrolling Interest for Sogou As we control the election of the Board of Directors of Sogou, we are Sogous controlling shareholder. Accordingly, we consolidate Sogou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting economic interests in Sogou held by shareholders other than us. To reflect the economic interest in Sogou held by shareholders other than us (the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders), Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity /(deficit) and adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders investments in Sogou Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares are accounted for as a noncontrolling interest classified as permanent equity in our consolidated balance sheets, as we have the right to reject a redemption requested by the noncontrolling interest. These treatments are based on the terms governing investment, and on the terms of the classes of Sogou shares held, by the noncontrolling shareholders in Sogou. By virtue of these terms, Sogous losses have been and will be allocated in the following order: (i) net losses were allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (ii) additional net losses were allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares until their basis in Sogou decreased to zero; (iii) additional net losses will be allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares until its basis in Sogou decreases to zero; and -51- Table of Contents (iv) further net losses will be allocated between Sohu.com Inc. and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Net income from Sogou has been, and future net income from Sogou will be, allocated in the following order: (i) net income will be allocated between Sohu.com Inc. and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou until their basis in Sogou increases to zero; (ii) additional net income will be allocated to the holder of Sogou Series B Preferred Shares to bring its basis back; (iii) additional net income will be allocated to holders of Sogou Series A Preferred Shares to bring their basis back; (iv) further net income will be allocated to holders of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares and the holder of Sogou Class B Ordinary Shares to bring their basis back; and (v) further net income will be allocated between Sohu.com Inc. and noncontrolling shareholders based on their shareholding percentage in Sogou. Noncontrolling Interest for Changyou As of September 30, 2015, we held approximately 69% of the combined total of Changyous outstanding ordinary shares, and controlled approximately 96% of the total voting power in Changyou. As we are Changyous controlling shareholder, we consolidate Changyou in our consolidated financial statements, and recognize noncontrolling interest reflecting the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than us. To reflect the economic interest in Changyou held by shareholders other than us (Changyou noncontrolling shareholders), Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders is recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income, based on their share of the economic interest in Changyou. Changyous cumulative results of operations attributable to the Changyou noncontrolling shareholders, along with changes in shareholders equity, adjustment for share-based compensation expense in relation to those share-based awards which are unvested and vested but not yet settled and adjustment for changes in Sohus ownership in Changyou, are recorded as noncontrolling interest in our consolidated balance sheets. Segment Reporting Our Groups segments are business units that offer different services and are reviewed separately by the chief operating decision maker (the CODM), or the decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The CODM is Sohu.com Inc.s Chief Executive Officer. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. The recognition of revenues involves certain management judgments. The amount and timing of our revenues could be materially different for any period if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates. Barter trade transactions in which physical goods or services (other than advertising services) are received in exchange for advertising services are recorded based on the fair values of the goods and services received. For online advertising-for-online advertising barter transactions, no revenue or expense is recognized because the fair value of neither the advertising surrendered nor the advertising received is determinable. Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues include revenues from brand advertising services as well as search and search-related services. We recognize revenue for the amount of fees we receive from our advertisers, after deducting agent rebates and net of value-added tax (VAT) and related surcharges. Brand Advertising Revenues Business Model Through PCs and mobile devices, we provide advertisement placements to our advertisers on different Website channels and in different formats, which include banners, links, logos, buttons, full screen, pre-roll, mid-roll, post-roll video screens, pause video screens, loading page ads, news feed ads and in-feed video infomercial ads. -52- Table of Contents Currently we have four main types of pricing models, consisting of the Fixed Price model, the Cost Per Impression (CPM) model, the E-commerce model, and the Cost Per click (CPC) model Fixed Price model Under the Fixed Price model, a contract is signed to establish a fixed price for the advertising services to be provided. CPM model Under the CPM model, the unit price for each qualifying display is fixed, but there is no overall fixed price for the advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. A qualifying display is defined as the appearance of an advertisement, where the advertisement meets criteria specified in the contract. Advertising fees are charged to the advertisers based on the unit prices and the number of qualifying displays. E-commerce model Under the e-commerce model, revenues were mainly generated from sales of membership cards which allow potential home buyers to purchase specified properties from real estate developers at a discount greater than the price that Focus charges for the card. Membership fees are refundable until the potential home buyer uses the discounts to purchase properties. Focus recognizes such revenues upon obtaining confirmation that the membership card has been redeemed to purchase a property. CPC model Under the CPC model, there is no overall fixed price for advertising services stated in the contract with the advertiser. We charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the advertisements. The unit price for each click is fixed or auction-based. Revenue Recognition For brand advertising revenue recognition, prior to entering into contracts, we make a credit assessment of the advertiser. For contracts for which collectability is determined to be reasonably assured, we recognize revenue when all revenue recognition criteria are met. In other cases, we only recognize revenue when the cash is received and all recognition criteria are met. In accordance with ASU No. 2009-13 , we treat advertising contracts with multiple deliverable elements as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes and to recognize revenue on a periodic basis during the contract when each deliverable service is provided. Since the contract price is for all deliverables, we allocate the arrangement consideration to all deliverables at the inception of the arrangement on the basis of their relative selling prices. Search and Search-related Revenues Search and search-related services primarily include pay-for-click services, as well as online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou. Pay-for-click Services Pay-for-click services are services that enable our advertisers promotional links to be displayed on Sogou search result pages and Sogou Website Alliance members Websites where the links are relevant to the subject and content of such Web pages. For pay-for-click services, we introduce Internet users to our advertisers through our auction-based pay-for-click systems and charge advertisers on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Revenue for pay-for-click services is recognized on a per-click basis when the users click on the displayed links. Online Marketing Services on Web Directories Operated by Sogou Online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou mainly consist of displaying advertisers Website links on the Web pages of Web directories. Revenue for online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou is normally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period, provided our obligations under the contract have been met and all revenue recognition criteria have been met. -53- Table of Contents Both pay-for-click services and online marketing services on Web directories operated by Sogou expand distribution of advertisers Website links or advertisements by leveraging traffic on Sogou Website Alliance members Websites. We recognize gross revenue for the amount of fees we receive from advertisers, as we have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability. Payments made to Sogou Website Alliance members are included in cost of search and search-related revenues as traffic acquisition costs. We pay Sogou Website Alliance members based on either revenue-sharing arrangements, under which we pay a percentage of pay-for-click revenues generated from clicks by users of their properties, or on a pre-agreed unit price. Online Game Revenues Changyous online game business offers to game players PC games, mobile games and Web games. All of Changyous games are operated under the item-based revenue model, where the basic game play functions are free of charge and players are charged for purchases of in-game virtual items, including those with a predetermined expiration time and perpetual virtual items. Revenues that Changyou generates from self-operated and licensed out online games are included in online game revenues. Self-Operated Games Changyou is the primary obligor of its self-operated games. Changyou hosts the games on its own servers and is responsible for the sale and marketing of the games as well as customer service. Accordingly, revenues are recorded gross of revenue sharing-payments to third-party developers and/or mobile app stores, but are net of business tax and discounts to game card distributors where applicable. Revenues obtained by Changyou from the sale of in-game virtual items are recognized over the estimated lives of the virtual items purchased by game players or as the virtual items are consumed. If different assumptions were used in deriving the estimated lives of the virtual items, the timing of the recording of the revenues would be impacted. PC Games Proceeds from the self-operation of PC games are collected from players and third-party game card distributors through sales of Changyous game points on its online payment platform and prepaid game cards. Self-operated PC games are either developed in house or licensed from third-party developers. For licensed PC games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Mobile Games For self-operated mobile games, Changyou sells game points to its game players via third-party mobile app stores. The mobile app stores in turn pay Changyou proceeds after deducting their share of pre-agreed revenue-sharing amounts. Self-operated mobile games are either developed in house or licensed from or jointly developed with third-party developers. For licensed and jointly developed mobile games, Changyou remits a pre-agreed percentage of the proceeds to the third-party developers, and keeps the balance pursuant to revenue-sharing agreements. Such revenue-sharing amounts paid to mobile app stores and third-party developers are recorded in Changyous cost of revenues. Web Games Proceeds from self-operated Web games are collected from players through the sale of game points. All of Changyous self-operated Web games were developed in house. Licensed Out Games Changyou also authorizes third-parties to operate its online games. Licensed out games include PC games, mobile games and Web games developed in house and mobile games jointly developed with third-party developers. Changyou receives monthly revenue-based royalty payments from all the third-party licensee operators. Changyou receives additional up-front license fees from certain third-party licensee operators who are entitled to an exclusive right to operate Changyous games in specified geographic areas. Since Changyou is obligated to provide post-sale services, the initial license fees are recognized as revenue ratably over the license period, and the monthly revenue-based royalty payments are recognized when relevant services are delivered, provided that collectability is reasonably assured. Changyou views the third-party licensee operators as Changyous customers and recognizes revenues on a net basis, as Changyou does not have the primary responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the game services. Changyou remits to the third-party developers a pre-agreed percentage of revenues from jointly developed and licensed out mobile games, and recognizes revenues on a net basis. -54- Table of Contents Others Revenues Sohu Sohu also engages in the others business, which includes the filming business, mobile-related services, sub-licensing of purchased video content to third parties, and paid subscription services. Revenues generated by Sohu from the others business are classified as others revenues in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Sogou Others revenues attributable to Sogou are primarily IVAS revenues derived from the operation of Web games and mobile games of third-party developers as well as other services and products that Sogou provides to users. Revenues from IVAS are recognized when Sogous obligations under the agreements and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Changyou Others revenues attributable to Changyou are primarily generated from its platform channel business and its others business. In its platform channel business, Changyou offers IVAS with respect to the operation of Web games of third-party developers and services provided to software application users. Revenues from IVAS are recognized when Changyous obligations under the agreements with the third-party developers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. In its others business, Changyou provides advertisement placements in advertising slots to be shown in cinemas before the screening of movies. When all the recognition criteria are met, revenues from cinema advertising are recognized based on a percentage of the advertising slots actually delivered or on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Product Development Expenses Product development expenses consist of personnel-related expenses incurred for enhancement and maintenance of our Websites, costs associated with new product development and maintenance and costs for enhancement of existing products and services, including the development costs of online games prior to the establishment of technological feasibility and maintenance costs after online games are available for marketing. Advertising Expenses Advertising expenses are included in sales and marketing expenses, and generally represent the expenses of promotions to create or stimulate a positive image of the Sohu Group or a desire to subscribe for the Groups products and services. Advertising expenses are expensed as incurred. Share-based Compensation Expense Sohu (excluding Fox Video Limited), Sogou, Changyou, and Fox Video Limited (Sohu Video) have incentive plans, and prior to June 28, 2013 7Road had an incentive plan, for the granting of share-based awards, including common stock or ordinary shares, share options, restricted shares and restricted share units, to members of the boards of directors, management and other key employees. For share-based awards for which a grant date has occurred, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income based on the fair value of the related share-based awards on their grant dates. For share-based awards for which the service inception date precedes the grant date, share-based compensation expense is recognized as costs and expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income beginning on the service inception date and is re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the related share-based awards. Share-based compensation expense is charged to the shareholders equity or noncontrolling interest section in the consolidated balance sheets. The assumptions used in share-based compensation expense recognition represent managements best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. If factors change or different assumptions are used, our share-based compensation expense could be materially different for any period. Moreover, the estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value that ultimately will be realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by us for accounting purposes. -55- Table of Contents Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, and Changyou Share-based Awards Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) as share-based awards before 2006, the Black-Scholes valuation model was applied. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of 1,068,000 shares of Sohu common stock contractually granted on February 7, 2015 are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date had occurred as of September 30, 2015, because no grant date could be established until a mutual understanding was reached between Sohu and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair value at the grant date. In determining the fair values of the share options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. Sogou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of share options granted by Sogou as share-based awards, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Certain persons who became Sogou employees when Tencents Soso search-related businesses were transferred to Sogou on September 16, 2013 had been granted restricted share units under Tencents share award arrangements prior to the transfer of the businesses to Sogou. These Tencent restricted share units will continue to vest under the original Tencent share award arrangements provided the transferred employees continue to be employed by Sogou during the requisite service period. After the transfer of the Soso search-related businesses to Sogou, Sogou applied the guidance in ASC 505-50 to measure the related compensation expense, based on the then-current fair value at each reporting date, which is deemed to have been incurred by Tencent as an investor on Sogous behalf. To determine the then-current fair value of the Tencent restricted share units granted to these employees, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was applied. Because Sogou is not required to reimburse Tencent for such share-based compensation expense, the related amount was recorded by Sogou as a capital contribution from Tencent. Changyou Share-based Awards In determining the fair value of ordinary shares and restricted share units granted by Changyou as share-based awards in 2008, the income approach /discounted cash flow method with a discount for lack of marketability was applied, given that the shares underlying the awards were not publicly traded at the time of grant. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted in 2009 before Changyous initial public offering, the fair value of the underlying shares was determined based on Changyous offering price for its initial public offering. In determining the fair value of restricted share units granted after Changyous initial public offering, the public market price of the underlying shares on the grant dates was applied. Options for the purchase of 2,400,000 Changyou ordinary shares that were converted to options from restricted share units on February 16, 2015 and options contractually granted on June 1, 2015 for the purchase of 1,998,000 Changyou ordinary shares awards are subject to vesting in four equal installments over a period of four years, with each installment vesting upon satisfaction of a service period requirement and certain subjective performance targets. For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , no grant date had occurred as of September 30, 2015, because no grant date could be established until a mutual understanding was reached between Changyou and the recipients clarifying the subjective performance requirements. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , as the service inception date preceded the grant date, compensation expense was accrued beginning on the service inception date and will be re-measured on each subsequent reporting date before the grant date is established, based on the then-current fair value of the awards. The estimate of the awards fair values will be fixed in the period in which the grant date occurs, and cumulative compensation expense will be adjusted based on the fair values at the grant date. In determining the fair values of share options granted, the public market price of the underlying shares at each reporting date was used, and a binomial valuation model was applied. -56- Table of Contents Compensation Expense Recognition For share options, restricted shares and restricted share units granted with respect to Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) shares and Changyou shares, compensation expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period. For share options granted with respect to Sogou shares, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period during which the service period requirement and performance target will be met. For Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search-related businesses, compensation expense is recognized by Sogou on an accelerated basis over the requisite service period, and the fair value of the share-based compensation is re-measured at each reporting date until a measurement date occurs. The number of share-based awards for which the service is not expected to be rendered over the requisite period is estimated, and no compensation expense is recorded for the number of awards so estimated. Sohu Video Share-based Awards On January 4, 2012, Sohu Video, the holding entity of Sohus video division, adopted a 2011 Share Incentive Plan (the Video 2011 Share Incentive Plan) which provides for the issuance of up to 25,000,000 ordinary shares of Sohu Video (representing approximately 10% of the outstanding Sohu Video Shares on a fully-diluted basis) to management and key employees of the video division and to Sohu management. As of September 30, 2015, grants of options for the purchase of 16,368,200 ordinary shares of Sohu Video had been contractually made, of which options for the purchase of 4,972,800 ordinary shares were vested. For purposes of ASC 718-10-25 , as of September 30, 2015, no grant date had occurred, because the broader terms and conditions of the option awards had neither been finalized nor mutually agreed upon with the recipients, and such mutual understanding cannot be reached until the fair value of the awards is determinable and can be accounted for. In accordance with ASC 718-10-55 , our management determined that the service inception date with respect to vested option awards for the purchase of 4,972,800 shares had preceded the grant date. Therefore, we began to recognize compensation expense for Sohu Video share-based awards in the second quarter of 2014 and re-measured, and will re-measure, the compensation expense on each subsequent reporting date based on the then-current fair values of the awards until the grant date is established. 7Road Share-based Awards On July 10, 2012, 7Road adopted the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan. On June 28, 2013, 7Roads Board of Directors approved the cancellation of this incentive plan. 7Road concurrently offered to a total of 42 7Road employees holding an aggregate of 2,223,750 restricted share units which had been granted under this incentive plan the right to exchange their restricted share units for, at each employees election, in each case subject to the employees continued employment by 7Road, either (i) Scheme I: the right to a cash payment of up to an aggregate of $2.90 per restricted share unit exchanged, vesting and payable at the rate of 40%, 30% and 30%, respectively, on the first, second and third anniversaries of July 18, 2012, which is the date when the surrendered restricted share units were granted under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan, or (ii) Scheme II: the right to receive an annual cash bonus, over a seven-year period commencing July 1, 2013, based on the adjusted annual cumulative net income of 7Road. As of June 28, 2013, all restricted share units held by these 42 7Road employees had been included in this exchange program. In the third quarter of 2013, 7Road granted to an additional 48 7Road employees the right to receive an annual cash bonus under Scheme II with the same terms as described above. On August 17, 2015, Changyou completed the sale of the 7Road business. As of August 17, 2015, Changyou had recognized an aggregate of $4.2 million of compensation expense under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan for Scheme I and $0.7 million of compensation expense for Scheme II. In the future, there will be no compensation expense recognized under the 7Road 2012 Share Incentive Plan. -57- Table of Contents Taxation Income Taxes Recognition Income taxes are accounted for using an asset and liability approach which requires the recognition of income taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred income taxes are determined based on the differences between the accounting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the currently enacted tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance, if based on available evidence, it is considered that it is more likely than not that some portion of or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making such determination, we consider factors including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future profitability, and tax planning strategies. If events were to occur in the future that would allow us to realize more of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the deferred tax assets that would increase income for the period when those events occurred. If events were to occur in the future that would require us to realize less of our deferred tax assets than the presently recorded net amount, an adjustment would be made to the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets that would decrease income for the period when those events occurred. Significant management judgment is required in determining income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets relate to net operating losses and temporary differences between accounting basis and tax basis for our China-Based Subsidiaries and VIEs, which are subject to corporate income tax in the PRC under the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law (the CIT Law). Applicable Income Tax Rate The CIT Law applies an income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises but grants preferential tax treatment to High and New Technology Enterprises (HNTEs). Under this preferential tax treatment, HNTEs can enjoy an income tax rate of 15% for three years, but need to re-apply after the end of the three-year period. If at any time during the three-year period the relevant tax bureau questions whether an enterprise continues to qualify as an HNTE, the enterprise can be subject to further tax examination and may not be able to continue to enjoy the preferential tax rate. In addition, the CIT Law and its implementing regulations provide that a Software Enterprise can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with its first profitable year and a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. An entity that qualifies as a Key National Software Enterprise can enjoy a further reduced preferential income tax rate of 10% for two years, but needs to re-apply after the end of the two-year period. Entities Qualified as HNTEs As of September 30, 2015, the following principal entities were qualified as HNTEs and were entitled to an income tax rate of 15%. For Sohus Business Sohu Internet. Sohu Internet re-applied for HNTE qualification in June 2015. Pending approval of its re-application, Sohu Internet is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as if it had already qualified as an HNTE for 2015. Sohu Era, Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun. Sohu Era, Sohu Media and Guangzhou Qianjun are each qualified as HNTEs for 2015 and 2016, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. For Sogous Business Sogou Information. Sogou Information re-applied for HNTE qualification in July 2015. Pending approval of its re-application, Sogou Information is entitled to continue to enjoy the beneficial tax rate as if it had already qualified as an HNTE for 2015. Sogou Technology. Sogou Technology is qualified as an HNTE for 2015 and 2016, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. For Changyous Business AmazGame and Gamease. AmazGame and Gamease are each qualified as HNTEs for 2015 and 2016, and will need to re-apply for HNTE qualification in 2017. -58- Table of Contents Entities Qualified as Software Enterprises For Sohus Business Sohu New Momentum. In 2015, Sohu New Momentum is in its second income tax exemption year as a Software Enterprise. For Changyou Business AmazGame. AmazGame will need to re-apply before the end 2015 for designation as a Key National Software Enterprise in order to be entitled for 2015 and 2016 to the preferential income tax rate of 10% to which it was entitled for the initial two-year period of 2013 and 2014. Gamespace. In 2015, Gamespace is in the second of the three years in which it will be entitled to a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% as a Software Enterprise. ICE Information. ICE Information was not subject to income tax, as it incurred losses. 7Road Technology. In 2015, 7Road Technology is in the first of the three years in which it will be entitled to a 50% reduction to a rate of 12.5% as a Software Enterprise. PRC Withholding Tax on Dividends The CIT Law imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by foreign-invested enterprises in the PRC to their immediate holding companies outside Mainland China. A lower withholding tax rate may be applied if there is a tax treaty or other arrangement between Mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company. A holding company in Hong Kong, for example, will be subject to a 5% withholding tax rate under an arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital, if such holding company is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC foreign invested enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong holding company is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividend will remain subject to a withholding tax rate of 10%. PRC Value Added Tax and Business Tax Revenues from brand advertising, revenues from the search and search-related business, revenues from Changyous Web games that were not developed in-house and from licensed mobile games, as well as revenues from mobile related services, which are recorded as others revenues, are subject to VAT. To record VAT payable, we adopted the net presentation method, which presents the difference between the output VAT (at a rate of 6%) and available input VAT amount (at the rate applicable to the supplier). Other online game revenues from the operation of PC games and self-developed mobile games are subject to a 5% PRC business tax (Business Tax). U.S. Corporate Income Tax Sohu.com Inc. is a Delaware corporation that is subject to U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income at a rate of up to 35%. To the extent that Sohu.com Inc. has U.S. taxable income, which generally arises mainly from our interest income, we accrue U.S. corporate income tax in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and make estimated tax payments as and when required by U.S. law. Uncertain Tax Positions We are subject to various taxes in different jurisdictions, primarily the US and the PRC. Management reviews regularly the adequacy of the provisions for taxes as they relate to our income and transactions. In order to assess uncertain tax positions, we apply a more likely than not threshold and a two-step approach for tax position measurement and financial statement recognition. For the two-step approach, the first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement. During its review in the third quarter of 2015, management determined that certain equity transactions that took place during the quarter may result in additional tax obligations under relevant tax rules. Accordingly, we recognized tax payable in the amount of $14.6 million and recognized tax expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the quarter ended September 30, 2015. -59- Table of Contents Net Income /(Loss) per Share Basic net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income /(loss) per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares and, if dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares comprise shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards using the treasury stock method. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with performance requirements is not considered before the performance targets are actually met. The computation of diluted net income /(loss) per share does not assume conversion, exercise, or contingent issuance of securities that would have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e. an increase in earnings per share amounts or a decrease in loss per share amounts) on net income /(loss) per share. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the numerator of diluted net income /(loss) per share, the net income /(loss) attributable to the Sohu Group is adjusted as follows. The adjustment will not be made if there is an anti-dilutive effect. (1) Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Sogou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Sogou Preferred Shares and Ordinary Shares, shares issuable upon the conversion of convertible preferred shares under the if-converted method, and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and is not determined by allocating Sogous net income /(loss) to Sohu.com Inc. using the methodology for the calculation of net income /(loss) attributable to the Sogou noncontrolling shareholders. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, the percentage of the Sohu.com Inc.s shareholding in Sogou was calculated by treating convertible preferred shares issued by Sogou as having been converted at the beginning of the period and unvested share options with the performance targets achieved as well as vested but unexercised share options as having been exercised during the period. The dilutive effect of share-based awards with a performance requirement was not considered before the performance targets were actually met. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Sogou shares and share options are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted income /(loss) per share. As a result, Sogous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. (2) Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. is determined using the percentage that the weighted average number of Changyou shares held by Sohu.com Inc. represents of the weighted average number of Changyou ordinary shares and shares issuable upon the exercise or settlement of share-based awards under the treasury stock method, and not by using the percentage held by Sohu.com Inc. of the total economic interest in Changyou, which is used for the calculation of basic net income per share. In the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share, assuming a dilutive effect, all of Changyous existing unvested restricted share units, and vested restricted share units that have not yet been settled, are treated as vested and settled by Changyou under the treasury stock method, causing the percentage of the weighted average number of shares held by Sohu.com Inc. in Changyou to decrease. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis decreased accordingly. Assuming an anti-dilutive effect, all of these Changyou restricted share units are excluded from the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s diluted net income /(loss) per share. As a result, Changyous net income /(loss) attributable to Sohu.com Inc. on a diluted basis equals the number used for the calculation of Sohu.com Inc.s basic net income /(loss) per share. Fair Value of Financial Instruments U.S. GAAP establishes a three-tier hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring the fair value of financial instruments. This hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The three-tier fair value hierarchy is: Level 1 observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 include other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the market place. Level 3 unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity. Our financial instruments mainly include cash equivalents, restricted time deposits, short-term investments, accounts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, held-for-sale assets, available-for-sale securities under long-term investments, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, receipts in advance and deferred revenue, short-term bank loans, other short-term liabilities, held-for-sale liabilities, long-term accounts payable and long-term bank loans. -60- Table of Contents Cash Equivalents Our cash equivalents mainly consist of time deposits and money market funds with original maturities of three months or less. Restricted Time Deposits Restricted time deposits are valued based on the prevailing interest rates in the market using the discounted cash flow method. Collateral related to Sogou Incentive Shares Trust Arrangements In February 2013, we deposited $9.0 million in cash into restricted time deposit accounts at a bank as collateral for credit facilities provided by the bank to certain Sogou employees. The facilities were intended to fund the employees early exercise of Sogou share options and related PRC individual income tax. We are not subject to any additional potential payments other than the restricted time deposit amounts, and believe that the fair value of our guarantee liability is immaterial. Changyou Loans from Offshore Banks, Secured by Time Deposits As of September 30, 2015, we had, through Changyou, loans from offshore banks secured by RMB deposits in onshore branches of those banks. The loans from the offshore branches of the lending banks are classified as short-term bank loans or long-term bank loans based on their repayment period. The rates of interest under the loan agreements with the lending banks were determined based on the prevailing interest rates in the market. The RMB onshore deposits securing the offshore loans are treated as restricted time deposits on our consolidated balance sheets. Short-term Investments For investments in financial instruments with a variable interest rate indexed to the performance of underlying assets, we elected the fair value method at the date of initial recognition and carried these investments subsequently at fair value. Changes in fair values are reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Accounts Receivable, Net The carrying value of accounts receivable is reduced by an allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. We make estimations of the collectability of accounts receivable. Many factors are considered in estimating the general allowance, including reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, performing an aging analysis and a customer credit analysis, and analyzing historical bad debt records and current economic trends. Additional allowance for specific doubtful accounts might be made if the financial conditions of our customers or the China mobile network operators deteriorate or the China mobile network operators are unable to collect fees from their end customers, resulting in their inability to make payments due to us. Available-for-Sale Securities Investments in debt securities and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values not classified as trading securities or as held-to-maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities. Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income or losses in the consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income during the period in which the gain or loss is realized. An impairment loss on the available-for-sale securities is recognized in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income when the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. On August 12, 2014, Sohu acquired approximately 6% of the total outstanding common shares of Keyeast Co. Ltd., a Korean-listed company, for a purchase price of $15.1 million. We classified this investment as available-for-sale equity securities and reported it at fair value. Equity Investments Investments in entities are recorded as equity investments. For entities over which we do not have significant influence, the cost method is applied; for entities over which we can exercise significant influence but do not own a majority equity interest or control, the equity method is applied. For cost method investments, we carry the investment at historical cost after the date of investment. For equity method investments, we adjust the carrying amount of an investment and recognize investment income or loss for our share of the earnings or loss of the investee after the date of investment. -61- Table of Contents Repurchase Options and Put Option for Sogou Series A Preferred Shares In September 2013, Sogou entered into Repurchase Option Agreements with Sohu.com (Search) Limited (Sohu Search) and Photon Group Limited, the investment vehicle of the Sohu Groups Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dr. Charles Zhang (Photon), and a Repurchase/Put Option Agreement with China Web Search (HK) Limited (China Web), with respect to Series A Preferred Shares of Sogou held by them. The repurchase options were initially recognized in additional paid-in capital in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets at fair value when the agreements were signed. Any subsequent changes in the fair values of the repurchase options were not and will not be recognized. The put option was initially recognized in other short-term liabilities in the Sohu Groups consolidated balance sheets at fair value when the agreement was signed. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the put option were recognized quarterly in other income /(expense) in the Sohu Groups consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Management determined the fair values of the repurchase options when the agreements were signed, and of the put option before Sogou exercised the repurchase option, using the binominal model, with a discount for lack of marketability, given that the repurchase options and the put option were not publicly traded at the time of grant. Management made the determination using managements estimates and assumptions. We classify the valuation techniques that use these inputs as Level 3 of fair value measurements. As of September 30, 2015, all of the Series A Preferred Shares of Sogou that were subject to the repurchase options and the put option had been repurchased by Sogou, and the balances of the additional paid-in capital recognized with respect to the repurchase options and of the other short-term liabilities recognized with respect to the put option were zero. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets include fixed assets, intangible assets and prepaid non-current assets. Fixed Assets Fixed assets mainly comprise office buildings, leasehold improvements, building improvements, vehicles, office furniture, and computer equipment and hardware. Fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation with no residual value. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Fixed Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Office buildings 36-47 Leasehold improvements Lesser of term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the assets Building improvements 10 Vehicles 4-10 Office furniture 5 Computer equipment and hardware 2-5 Expenditure for maintenance and repairs is expensed as incurred. The gain or loss on the disposal of fixed assets is the difference between the net sales proceeds and the lower of the carrying value or fair value less cost to sell the relevant assets and is recognized in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Intangible Assets Intangible assets mainly comprise domain names and trademarks, developed technologies, computer software, purchased video content, cinema advertising slot rights, and operating rights for licensed games. Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization with no residual value. Amortization of intangible assets other than purchased video content is computed using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. -62- Table of Contents The estimated useful lives of our intangible assets are listed below: Intangible Assets Estimated Useful Lives (years) Domain names and trademarks 4-30 Developed technologies 3-10 Computer software 1-5 Purchased video content 4 months to 2 years, or over the applicable licensing period Cinema advertising slot rights over the contract terms Operating rights for licensed games over the contract terms Purchased Video Content and Self-produced Video Content Purchased video content is recognized as intangible assets. Amortization of purchased video content is computed based on the trend in viewership accumulation. For self-produced video content, the production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted are expensed as incurred, instead of being recorded as intangible assets. Sohu Video enters into nonmonetary transactions to exchange online broadcasting rights for purchased video content with other online video broadcasting companies. Under ASC 845 , the cost of a nonmonetary asset acquired in exchange for another nonmonetary asset is the fair value of the asset surrendered to obtain the acquired nonmonetary asset, and a gain or loss should be recognized on the exchange. The fair value of the asset received should be used to measure the cost if the fair value of the asset received is more reliable than the fair value of the asset surrendered. We record these nonmonetary exchanges at the fair values of the online broadcasting rights for purchased video content and recognize any gain or loss from such exchange transactions. Impairment of Long-lived Assets In accordance with ASC 360-10-35 , we review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Based on the existence of one or more indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment of long-lived assets using the projected discounted cash flow method at the asset group level. The estimation of future cash flows requires significant management judgment based on our historical results and anticipated results and is subject to many factors. The discount rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent in our business model is determined by our management. An impairment loss would be recorded if we determined that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying values of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired as a result of our acquisitions of interests in our subsidiaries and consolidated VIEs. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we report in our financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. If a measurement period adjustment is identified, we recognize the adjustment as part of the acquisition accounting. We increase or decrease the provisional amounts of identifiable assets or liabilities by means of increases or decreases in goodwill for measurement period adjustments. In accordance with ASC 350 , we do not amortize goodwill, but test it for impairment. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of October 1, and between annual tests when an event occurs or circumstances change that could indicate that the asset might be impaired. Commencing in September 2011, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) revised guidance on Testing of Goodwill for Impairment. Under this guidance, we have the option to choose whether we will apply the qualitative assessment first and then the quantitative assessment, if necessary, or to apply the quantitative assessment directly. For reporting units applying a qualitative assessment first, we start the goodwill impairment test by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is mandatory. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The quantitative impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of goodwill with its carrying value. For reporting units directly applying the quantitative assessment, we perform the goodwill impairment test by quantitatively comparing the fair values of those reporting units to their carrying amounts. -63- Table of Contents Application of a goodwill impairment test requires significant management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. The judgment in estimating the fair value of reporting units includes estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Contingent Consideration Changyous acquisition of Beijing Doyo Internet Technology Co., Ltd. (Doyo) included a contingent consideration arrangement that requires additional consideration to be paid by Changyou based on the financial performance of Doyo for the fiscal years 2013 through 2015. The fair value of the contingent consideration was recognized on the acquisition date using the income approach/ discounted cash flow method with a scenario analysis applied. There were no indemnification assets involved. In March 2015, as Doyos performance had exceeded the relevant performance milestone, Changyou re-classified such contingent consideration to other short-term liabilities in the amount of $6.0 million in the consolidated balance sheet. In September 2015, Changyou entered into an agreement to sell all of the equity interests of Doyo. The aggregate consideration under the agreement includes cash consideration of approximately $2.9 million, and forgiveness, upon the completion of the sale, of the $6.0 million contingent consideration payable. As of the date of this report, this sale has been completed and Changyou has received most of the cash consideration. Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income is defined as the change in equity of a company during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances excluding transactions resulting from investments from owners and distributions to owners. Accumulated other comprehensive income, as presented on our consolidated balance sheets, includes a cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment. Functional Currency and Foreign Currency Translation Functional Currency An entitys functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates, normally that is the currency of the environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. Managements judgment is essential to determine the functional currency by assessing various indicators, such as cash flows, sales price and market, expenses, financing and inter-company transactions and arrangements. The functional currency of Sohu.com Inc. is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our subsidiaries in the U.S., the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of our subsidiaries and VIEs in other countries are the national currencies of those counties, rather than the U.S. dollar. Foreign Currency Translation Assets and liabilities of our subsidiaries and VIEs whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the reporting period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are not included in determining net income for the period but are accumulated in a separate component of equity in our consolidated balance sheets. Foreign currency transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are re-measured at the applicable rates of exchange in effect at that date. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency re-measurement are included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. -64- Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table presents our revenues by revenue source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Percentage of the total revenue Amount Incremental ratio Revenues Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 148,823 35 % $ 151,517 29 % $ 2,694 2 % $ 393,334 33 % $ 436,187 30 % $ 42,853 11 % Search and search-related 98,437 22 % 147,938 28 % 49,501 50 % 247,810 21 % 388,270 26 % 140,460 57 % Subtotal of online advertising revenues 247,260 57 % 299,455 57 % 52,195 21 % 641,144 54 % 824,457 56 % 183,313 29 % Online game 150,338 35 % 152,501 29 % 2,163 1 % 467,603 39 % 509,845 35 % 42,242 9 % Others 32,817 8 % 70,134 14 % 37,317 114 % 87,134 7 % 136,686 9 % 49,552 57 % Total revenues $ 430,415 100 % $ 522,090 100 % $ 91,675 21 % $ 1,195,881 100 % $ 1,470,988 100 % $ 275,107 23 % -65- Table of Contents Online Advertising Revenues Online advertising revenues were $299.5 million and $824.5 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $247.3 million and $641.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in online advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $52.2 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 21%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $183.3 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 29%. Brand Advertising Revenues, Generated by Sohu and Changyou Brand advertising revenues were $151.5 million and $436.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $148.8 million and $393.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in brand advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $2.7 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 2%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $42.9 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 11%. The year-on-year increases in brand advertising revenues were mainly from Sohu Video. Sohu Sohu Media Portal Revenues from Sohu Media Portal were $51.2 million and $148.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $54.4 million and $148.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Revenues from Sohu Media Portal for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2015 were generally stable when compared to the corresponding periods in 2014. In the third quarter, we continued to refine the mobile news App interface to improve users experience. In the meantime, we strived to enhance our content offerings, providing users high quality news and reliable information. The number of advertisers for Sohu Media Portal was 1,597 and 2,987, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 1,519 and 2,392, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Sohu Video Revenues from Sohu Video were $55.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $51.2 million for the corresponding periods in 2014, an increase of $4.2 million, representing year-on-year growth of 8%, as we increased monetization. For the month of September 2015 compared to the month of September 2014, the average daily unique visitors for Sohu Video increased 20%, mainly from visitors contributed by a company that we acquired in late 2014 that focuses primarily on original and professionally-generated content. For the month of September 2015 compared to the month of September 2014, the average daily video views for Sohu Video decreased 12%, which mainly resulted from the rationalization of our spending on licensed content. The number of advertisers on Sohu Video was 291 for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 306 for the corresponding periods in 2014. The pricing for online video has generally been stable. Revenues from Sohu Video were and $161.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $125.2 million for the corresponding periods in 2014, an increase of $36.6 million, representing year-on-year growth of 29%. The number of advertisers on Sohu Video was 492 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 487 for the corresponding periods in 2014. Focus Revenues from Focus were $27.0 million and $83.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $26.6 million and $78.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in revenues from Focus from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $0.5 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 2%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $5.0 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 6%. Revenues from Focus were generated through the Fixed Price model and the E-commerce model. -66- Table of Contents For the Fixed Price model, revenues were $12.7 million and $41.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $16.4 million and $47.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014, representing decreases of $3.7 million and $5.8 million, respectively, from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 and from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. In the currently soft Chinese macro economy, advertisers are more willing to adopt the E-commerce model than the Fixed Price model, which caused our revenues from the Fixed Price model to decrease. For the E-commerce model, revenues were $14.4 million and $42.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $10.2 million and $31.2 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase was mainly driven by our subscription membership services offered to prospective purchasers of real estate as a result of the expansion of the Focus business through our establishment of more partnerships with property developers. The number of developers with which we had cooperation arrangements was 431 and 838, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 348 and 588, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The number of paying subscribers for the membership services was 24,043 and 68,103, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 17,202 and 48,264, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Changyou 17173.com Website Revenues from the 17173.com Website were $17.9 million and $42.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $16.7 million and $40.7 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Revenues from the 17173.com Website were stable for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. The number of advertisers on the 17173.com Website was 89 and 171, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 93 and 132, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Search and Search-related Revenues, Generated by Sogou Revenues from search and search-related services were $147.9million and $388.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $98.4 million and $247.8 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in revenues from search and search-related services from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $49.5 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 50%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $140.5 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 57%. The increase in revenues from search and search-related services was mainly attributable to an increase in revenues from pay-for-click services. Revenues from pay-for-click services accounted for approximately 82% of the total search and search-related revenues for both the three and the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 82% and 79%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The growth in revenues from pay-for-click services was principally attributable to an increase in the number of paid clicks and a higher average cost-per-click. Paid clicks increased by approximately 35% and 40%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the corresponding periods in 2014. Average cost-per-click increased by approximately 10% and 13%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the corresponding periods in 2014. Online Game Revenues Generated by Changyou Revenues from the online game business were $152.5 million and $509.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $150.3 million and $467.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. -67- Table of Contents PC games and Mobile Games Revenues from PC games were $100.1 million and 298.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $122.7 million and $379.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease in revenues from PC games from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $22.6 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 18%, and the decrease from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $81.7 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 22%. The year-on-year decrease in revenues from PC games was mainly due to decreased revenues from TLBB, resulting from the strategic decision to reduce the level of promotional activities within TLBB to achieve an in-game balance and a sustainable environment for game players and the games maturity. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, revenues from the PC game TLBB were $77.8 million and $244.9 million, respectively, accounting for approximately 51% and 48%, respectively, of Changyous online game revenues, approximately 41% of Changyous total revenues for both periods and approximately 15% and 17%, respectively, of the Sohu Groups total revenues. Revenues from mobile games were $42.8 million and $167.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $4.8 million and $8.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in revenues from mobile games from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $38.0 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 792%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $159.0 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 1916%. The increase was mainly due to revenues from Changyous mobile game TLBB 3D, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2014. The following table sets forth certain operating data for Changyous PC games and mobile games for the periods indicated: Average Monthly Active Accounts (1) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 (in millions) PC games PC games and mobile games PC games PC games and mobile games PC games PC games and mobile games 2014 6.5 9.1 6.9 8.2 10.7 12.1 2015 4.9 9.3 4.4 10.1 4.1 6.5 Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts (2) Three Months Ended March 31 Three Months Ended June 30 Three Months Ended September 30 (in millions) PC games PC games and mobile games PC games PC games and mobile games PC games PC games and mobile games 2014 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.6 2015 1.1 2.0 1.1 2.5 1.3 1.9 (1) Average Monthly Active Accounts for a given period refers to the number of registered accounts that were logged in to these games at least once during the period. (2) Quarterly Aggregate Active Paying Accounts for a given quarter refers to the number of accounts from which game points were used at least once during the quarter. Web Games Revenues from Web games were $9.5 million and $44.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $22.8 million and $79.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease was mainly due to decreased revenues from the Web games Wartune and DDTank and Changyous sale of the 7Road business , which operates Wartune and DDTank, on August 17, 2015. Others Revenues Revenues from others services were $70.1 million and $136.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $32.8 million and $87.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase was mainly due to revenue of $28.7 million from the film Jian Bing Man that was produced by us and released in the third quarter of 2015. -68- Table of Contents Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following table presents our cost of revenues by source and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Percentage of the total cost Amount Incremental ratio Cost of revenues: Online advertising: Brand advertising $ 83,424 46 % $ 91,163 43 % $ 7,739 9 % $ 230,462 47 % $ 295,562 45 % $ 65,100 28 % Search and search-related 46,375 26 % 62,365 29 % 15,990 34 % 118,532 24 % 170,836 26 % 52,304 44 % Subtotal of cost of online advertising revenues 129,799 72 % 153,528 72 % 23,729 18 % 348,994 71 % 466,398 71 % 117,404 34 % Online game 33,949 19 % 34,635 16 % 686 2 % 90,798 19 % 128,049 19 % 37,251 41 % Others 17,912 9 % 25,996 12 % 8,084 45 % 50,252 10 % 63,066 10 % 12,814 25 % Total cost of revenues $ 181,660 100 % $ 214,159 100 % $ 32,499 18 % $ 490,044 100 % $ 657,513 100 % $ 167,469 34 % -69- Table of Contents Cost of Online Advertising Revenues Cost of online advertising revenues was $153.5 million and $466.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $129.8 million and $349.0 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in cost of online advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $23.7 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 18%, and the increase from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $117.4 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 34%. Cost of Brand Advertising Revenues Cost of brand advertising revenues mainly consists of content and license costs, bandwidth leasing costs, salary and benefits expenses, and depreciation expenses. Cost of brand advertising revenues was $91.2 million and $295.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $83.4 million and $230.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in cost of brand advertising revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $7.7 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 9%. The increase mainly consisted of a $5.4 million increase in content and license costs and a $1.5 million increase in salary and benefits expense. The increase in cost of brand advertising revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $65.1 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 28%. The increase mainly consisted of a $48.1 million increase in content and license costs, a $7.4 million increase in salary and benefits expense, and a $3.3 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs. Our brand advertising gross margin was 40% and 32%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to 44% and 41%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease in our brand advertising gross margin was primarily due to an increase in content costs, which outpaced revenue growth. Cost of Search and Search-related Revenues Cost of search and search-related revenues mainly consists of traffic acquisition costs, bandwidth leasing costs, depreciation expenses, as well as salary and benefits expenses. Cost of search and search-related revenues were $62.4 million and $170.8 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $46.4 million and $118.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in cost of search and search-related revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $16.0 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 34%. The increase mainly consisted of a $11.1 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $3.1 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs and a $1.6 million increase in depreciation expenses. The increase in cost of search and search-related revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $52.3 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 44%. The increase mainly consisted of a $38.2 million increase in traffic acquisition costs, a $10.5 million increase in bandwidth leasing costs and a $3.3 million increase in depreciation expenses. Our search and search-related gross margin was 58% and 56%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to 53% and 52%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase in our search and search-related gross margin was mainly due to increased revenues, combined with lower costs as a percentage of search and search-related revenues. Cost of Online Game Revenues Cost of online game revenues mainly consists of revenue-sharing payments, salary and benefits expenses, bandwidth leasing costs, and depreciation and amortization expenses. Cost of online game revenues was $34.6 million and $128.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $33.9 million and $90.8 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. -70- Table of Contents The increase in cost of online game revenues from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $0.7 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 2%. The increase included a $11.6 million increase in revenue-sharing payments to mobile app stores, which was offset by a $6.7 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $2.7 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses and a $1.7 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs. The increase in cost of online game revenues from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $37.3 million, representing a year-on-year growth rate of 41%. The increase included a $63.0 million increase in revenue-sharing payments to mobile app stores, which was offset by a $14.4 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, a $4.4 million decrease in bandwidth leasing costs and a $4.9 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses. Our online game gross margin was 77% and 75%, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 77% and 81%, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Cost of Others Revenues Cost of revenues for others services was $26.0 million and $63.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $17.9 million and $50.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase was mainly due to $5.7 million in film production costs for Jian Bing Man that were recognized concurrently with revenue in the third quarter of 2015. -71- Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses by nature and by proportion for the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 2014 2015 2015 vs 2014 Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Incremental ratio Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Percentage of the total expense Amount Incremental ratio Operating expenses: Product development $ 107,971 37 % $ 92,779 35 % $ (15,192 ) -14 % $ 327,911 37 % $ 295,741 40 % $ (32,170 ) -10 % Sales and marketing 131,742 46 % 98,596 37 % (33,146 ) -25 % 410,702 47 % 285,701 38 % (125,001 ) -30 % General and administrative 49,730 17 % 33,330 13 % (16,400 ) -33 % 138,330 16 % 128,214 17 % (10,116 ) -7 % Goodwill impairment and impairment of intangible assets acquired as part of a business acquisition 0 0 % 40,324 15 % 40,324 N/A 0 0 % 40,324 5 % 40,324 N/A Total operating expenses $ 289,443 100 % $ 265,029 100 % $ (24,414 ) -8 % $ 876,943 100 % $ 749,980 100 % $ (126,963 ) -14 % -72- Table of Contents Product Development Expenses Product development expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, facilities expenses, and technical service fees. Product development expenses were $92.8 million and $295.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $108.0 million and $327.9 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease in product development expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $15.2 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 14%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $7.4 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, a $7.3 million decrease in salary and benefits expense, and a $4.5 million decrease in content and license costs, offset by a $3.7 million increase in impairment related to game copyrights of Changyou and a $0.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The decrease in product development expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $32.2 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 10%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $30.1 million decrease in salary and benefits expense, a $6.3 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, and a $5.5 million decrease in content and license expense, offset by a $6.9 million increase in impairment related to game copyrights of Changyou and a $4.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The decrease in salary and benefits expenses resulted primarily from an accrual for estimated compensation expense associated with three employee incentive plans that had been recognized by Changyou in the first quarter of 2014. The accrual was reversed in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to lowered estimates based on managements reassessment of the estimated compensation liabilities for the three employee incentive plans. The three employee incentive plans were cancelled during the first quarter of 2015, and therefore no such accrual was made in the first quarter of 2015. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses mainly consist of advertising and promotional expenditures, salary and benefits expenses, travel expenses, and facility expenses. Sales and marketing expenses were $98.6 million and $285.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $131.7 million and $410.7 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $33.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 25%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $27.5 million decrease in advertising and promotional expenditures, which was mainly due to Changyous reduction in marketing and promotional spending for mobile Internet products, a $2.9 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses and a $1.5 million decrease in facility expenses. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $125.0 million. The decrease mainly consisted of a $114.9 million decrease in advertising and promotional expenditures, which was mainly due to Changyous reduction in marketing and promotional spending for mobile Internet products, a $3.4 million decrease in facility expenses and a $3.2 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses mainly consist of salary and benefits expenses, professional service fees, facility expenses, travel expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses. General and administrative expenses were $33.3 million and $128.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $49.7 million and $138.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The decrease in general and administrative expenses from the three months ended September 30, 2014 to the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $16.4 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 33%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $8.9 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, and a $8.8 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, offset by a $0.7 million increase in professional service fees, and a $0.7 million increase in facility expenses. -73- Table of Contents The decrease in general and administrative expenses from the nine months ended September 30, 2014 to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $10.1 million, representing a year-on-year decrease rate of 7%. The decrease mainly consisted of a $13.6 million decrease in salary and benefits expenses, and a $9.1 million decrease in share-based compensation expense, offset by a $7.4 million increase in professional service fees, a $3.6 million increase in facility expenses, and a $2.0 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. Goodwill Impairment and Impairment of Intangibles Acquired as Part of A Business Acquisition In the third quarter of 2015, we recognized $40.3 million of goodwill impairment and impairment of intangibles acquired as part of a business acquisition. This $40.3 million impairment loss consisted primarily of a $29.6 million goodwill impairment loss and a $8.9 million intangible assets impairment loss related to the MoboTap business, as Changyou management determined that MoboTap was unable to provide expected synergies with Changyous platform business. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, there was no goodwill impairment or impairment of intangibles acquired as part of business acquisitions. Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense was recognized in costs and expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and September 30, 2015, respectively, as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, Share-based compensation expense 2014 2015 2014 2015 Cost of revenues $ 469 $ 99 $ 1,454 $ 957 Product development expenses (1) 6,052 (1,331 ) 15,999 9,680 Sales and marketing expenses 937 466 3,751 1,573 General and administrative expenses (1) 7,342 (1,536 ) 25,402 16,255 $ 14,800 $ (2,302 ) $ 46,606 $ 28,465 Share-based compensation expense recognized for share awards of Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou, Changyou and Sohu Video was as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, Share-based compensation expense 2014 2015 2014 2015 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 1,337 $ 2,294 $ 5,242 $ 15,031 For Sogou share-based awards (1) (2) 13,098 (1,230 ) 36,033 5,706 For Changyou share-based awards (1) 514 (3,465 ) 1,253 7,529 For Sohu Video share-based awards (149 ) 99 4,078 199 $ 14,800 $ (2,302 ) $ 46,606 $ 28,465 Note (1): The negative amount resulted from re-measured compensation expense based on the then-current fair value of the awards on September 30, 2015 as well as a true-up of share-based compensation expense for forfeited Sogou and Changyou share-based awards. Note (2): Sogou share-based awards also include compensation expense for Tencent restricted share units that Tencent had granted to employees who transferred to Sogou with the Soso search-related businesses, and compensation expense equal to the excess of the repurchase price paid to employees over the fair value at the repurchase date of Sogou Class A Ordinary Shares that Sogou repurchased in the second quarter of 2014. There was no capitalized share-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2015. -74- Table of Contents As of September 30, 2015, unrecognized share-based compensation expense for Sohu (excluding Sohu Video), Sogou and Changyou share-based awards was as follows (in thousands): Unrecognized share-based compensation expense As of September 30, 2015 For Sohu (excluding Sohu Video) share-based awards $ 1,707 For Sogou share-based awards (3) 5,482 For Changyou share-based awards 21,940 $ 29,129 Note (3): Includes the unrecognized compensation expense for employees who transferred from Tencent with Soso search-related businesses. Operating Profit /(Loss) For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, we had an operating profit of $42.9 million and $63.5 million, respectively, compared to an operating loss of $40.7 million and $171.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increases were mainly due to Changyous and Sogous having incurred operating losses in the earlier periods and generating operating profits in the later periods. Changyou generated an operating profit of $23.6 million and $121.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to an operating loss of $2.6 million and $39.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Sogou generated an operating profit of $36.2 million and $74.0 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to an operating loss of $7.5 million and $22.2 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Other Income /(Loss) We had other income of $70.2 million and $72.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to other income of $0.9 million and $5.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The increase was mainly due to disposal gain of $55.1 million recognized from Changyous sale of the 7Road business and certain Changyou subsidiaries on August 17, 2015. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $5.2 million and $17.5 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $7.5 million and $24.7 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Income Tax Benefit /(Expense) Income tax expense was $29.5 million and $57.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to an income tax benefit of $1.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. The change from an income tax benefit to income tax expense was mainly due to Changyou. Changyou incurred income tax expense of $25.8 million and $45.7 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to an income tax expense of $0.3 million and income tax benefit of $4.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. Net Income /(Loss) For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, we had net income of $93.2 million and $100.1 million, respectively, compared to net loss of $31.9 million and $138.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. Net Income /(Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest was $42.1 million and $107.3 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest of $4.8 million and $19.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. -75- Table of Contents Deemed Dividend to Noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred Shareholders Deemed dividends to noncontrolling Sogou Series A Preferred shareholders were $11.9 million for both the three months and the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to nil and $27.7 million, respectively, for the three and the nine months ended September 30, 2014. In March 2014 and September 2015, Sogou purchased Sogou Series A Preferred Shares from noncontrolling shareholders, which gave rise to deemed dividends of $27.7 million and $11.9 million, respectively. The deemed dividends were deemed to have been contributed by Sohu.com Inc., as a holder of ordinary shares of Sogou, representing a portion of the differences between the prices Sogou paid to China Web and Photon for the Series A Preferred Shares and the carrying amounts of these Series A Preferred Shares in the Groups consolidated financial statements. Net Income/ (Loss) Attributable to Sohu.com Inc. As a result of the foregoing, we had net income of $39.1 million attributable to Sohu.com Inc. for the three months ended September 30, 2015, and a net loss of $19.2 million attributable to Sohu.com Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to a net loss attributable to Sohu.com Inc. of $27.1 million and $147.1 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2014. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Resources Analysis Liquidity Sources and Balances Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows generated from our operations. Cash equivalents primarily comprise time deposits and money market funds. Short-term investments comprise investment instruments issued by commercial banks in China, with a variable interest rate indexed to performance of underlying assets and maturity dates within one year. As of September 30, 2015, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.1 billion, and short-term investments of $260.4 million. Of our cash and cash equivalents, $547.9 million was held in financial institutions inside Mainland China and $526.0 million was held in financial institutions outside of Mainland China. Our VIEs held $114.0 million of our cash and cash equivalents and $959.9 million was held outside of our VIEs. In addition, as of September 30, 2015, we had, through Changyou, loans from offshore banks in the principal amount of $344.5 million. These loans were secured by RMB deposits in onshore branches of those banks in the total amount of $371.8 million, which are recognized as restricted time deposits. We believe our current liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet anticipated working capital needs (net cash used in operating activities), commitments, capital expenditures, and investment activities over the next twelve months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changes in business conditions and other future developments, or changes in general economic conditions. See Restrictions and Limitations on Cash Available to Sohu.com Inc. below and