Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the financial statements and accompanying notes and other financial information in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 14, 2023. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading public safety technology company that combines data driven solutions and strategic advisory services for law enforcement and civic leadership. In April 2023, we changed the company name ShotSpotter, Inc. to SoundThinking, Inc., reflecting our broader impact on public safety through a growing set of industry-leading law enforcement tools and community-focused solutions. As part of the rebrand, we introduced our SafetySmart Platform that includes four data-driven tools including our flagship product, ShotSpotter (formerly ShotSpotter Respond), our alerting system trusted by over 155cities and over 20 universities and corporations as of March 31, 2023. CrimeTracer (formerly COPLINK X), a leading law enforcement search engine that enables investigators to search through more than 1 billion criminal justice records from across jurisdictions to generate tactical leads and quickly make intelligent connections to solve cases. CaseBuilder (formerly ShotSpotter Investigate), a one-stop investigative management system for tracking, reporting, and collaborating on cases.And ResourceRouter (formerly ShotSpotter Connect), which directs the deployment of patrol and community anti-violence resources in an objective way to help maximize the impact of limited resources and improve community safety. Weoffer our solutions on a software-as-a-service subscription model to our customers. SoundThinking Labs supports innovative uses of the Company's technology to help protect wildlife and the environment. Our gunshot detection solution consists of highly-specialized, cloud-based software integrated with proprietary, internet-enabled sensors designed to detect outdoor gunfire. The speed and accuracy of our gunfire alerts enable law enforcement and security personnel to consistently and quickly respond to shooting events including those unreported through 911, which can increase the chances of apprehending the shooter, providing timely aid to victims, and identifying witnesses before they scatter, as well as aid in evidence collection and serve as an overall deterrent. When a potential gunfire incident is detected by our sensors, our system precisely locates where the incident occurred and applies machine classification combined with human review to analyze and validate the incident. An alert containing a location on a map and critical information about the incident is sent directly to subscribing law enforcement or security personnel through any internet-connected computer and to iPhone or Android mobile devices. Our software sends gunfire data along with the audio of the triggering sound to our Incident Review Center (IRC), where our trained incident review specialists are on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year to screen and confirm actual gunfire incidents. Our trained incident review specialists can supplement alerts with additional tactical information, such as the potential presence of multiple shooters or the use of high-capacity weapons. Gunshot incidents reviewed by our IRC result in alerts typically sent within approximately 45 seconds of the receipt of the gunfire incident. 16 We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter on a per-square-mile basis. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate, and CaseBuilder are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. Our ResourceRouter solution is also sold on a subscription basis. As of March 31, 2023, we had ShotSpotter coverage areas under contract for approximately 1,100 square miles, of which 1,034 square miles had gone live. Coverage areas under contract included over 155 cities and 19 campuses/sites across the United States, South Africa and the Bahamas, including some of the largest cities in the United States. Most of our revenue is attributable to customers based in the United States. A relatively new source of revenue for gunshot detection services comes from smaller law enforcement agencies. In 2020, we added new pricing programs for Tier 4 and 5 law enforcement agencies (those with fewer than 100 sworn officers). This allows them to contract for our gunshot detection solutions to cover a footprint of less than three square miles, using standardized coverage parameters, at a discounted annual subscription rate. We have found that these customer sales cycles are shorter than traditional sales cycles and open up a new and sizeable portion of the market for the company. In addition, some gunshot detection-based revenue comes from SoundThinking Labs projects. These are generally conducted in coordination with a sponsoring charitable organization and may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they will generally be sold on a cost-plus basis. As such, SoundThinking Labs projects will normally produce gross margins significantly lower than most of our other solutions. Additionally, while we intend to continue to devote resources to increase sales of our non-gunshot detection solutions, we expect that revenues from ShotSpotter-basedproducts will continue to comprise a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We acquired LEEDS, LLC (LEEDS) in November 2020 to expand our suite of solutions and from which we generate revenues through the sale of (i) maintenance and support services and (ii) professional software development services to a single customer, through a sales channel intermediary. Using its technology, we introduced ShotSpotter Investigate, now CaseBuilder, in the second quarter of 2021. CaseBuilder is our case management solution that helps automate investigative work and improve case clearance rates addressing an inefficiency problem for many agencies that have had to rely on multiple disparate systems to work cases. Using the software, investigators benefit from a single digital case folder that includes all elements related to a case. Analytical and collaboration tools help investigators connect the dots and share information faster while reporting helps package cases for command staff and prosecutors. With CaseBuilder, we offer a more complete platform to enable intelligence-driven prevention, response to, and investigation of crime for local, state and federal agencies. In January 2022, we acquired Forensic Logic, LLC ("Forensic Logic"), a leading provider of cloud-based data services to U.S. law enforcement and public safety agencies to enable powering the industry's most advanced search and analysis technology. We believe combining lead generation from Forensic Logic's CrimeTracer solution (formerly COPLINK X) with our CaseBuilder case management solution can accelerate crime solving solutions and improve clearance rates. Since our founding over 26 years ago, we have been a purpose-led company. We are a mission-driven organization that focuses on improving public safety outcomes. We accomplish this by earning the trust of law enforcement and providing solutions to help them better engage and strengthen the police-community relationships in fulfilling their sworn obligation to equally serve and protect all. Our inspiration comes from our principal founder, Dr. Bob Showen, who believes that the highest and best use of technology is to promote social good. We are committed to developing comprehensive, respectful, and engaged partnerships with law enforcement agencies, elected officials and communities focused on making a positive difference in the world. We enter into subscription agreements that typically range from one to three years in duration. Substantially all of our sales are to governmental agencies and universities, which often undertake a prolonged contract evaluation process that affects the size or the timing of our sales contracts and may likewise increase our customer acquisition costs. For a discussion of the risks associated with our sales cycle, see risks entitled Our sales cycle can be lengthy, time-consuming and costly, and our inability to successfully complete sales could harm our business and Because we generally recognize our subscription revenues ratably over the term of our contract with a customer, fluctuations in sales will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 17 We rely on a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers to produce components of our solutions. We have no long-term contracts with these manufacturers and purchase from them on a purchase-order basis. Although we use a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers, we believe that we could find alternate suppliers or manufacturers if circumstances required us to do so, in part because a portion of the components required by our solutions are available off the shelf. For a discussion of the risks associated with our limited number of suppliers, see risks entitled We rely on a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers, and our proprietary ShotSpotter sensors are manufactured by a single contract manufacturer in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We generated revenues of $20.6 million and $21.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenues from sales of ShotSpotter during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 represented approximately 71% and 63% of total revenues, respectively. Our two current largest customers, the City of New York and the City of Chicago, accounted for 27% and 10% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023, respectively, and 38% and 10% of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, revenues generated within the United States (including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands) accounted for $20.2 million and $20.8 million, respectively, or 98% of total revenues for both periods. We had net income (loss) of $(1.8) million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was $94.2 million and $92.4 million at March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. We have focused on rapidly growing our business and believe that our future growth is dependent on many factors, including our ability to increase our customer base, expand the coverage of our solutions among our existing customers, expand our international presence and increase sales of our security solutions. Our future growth will primarily depend on the market acceptance for outdoor gunshot detection solutions. Other challenges we face in this regard include our target customers not having access to adequate funding sources, the fact that contracting with government entities can be complex, expensive, and time-consuming, the fact that our typical sales cycle is often very long and difficult to estimate accurately, especially due to the changes in business cycles, funding and customer budget setting processes that have occurred through the pandemic that are continuing and periods of social unrest, and the fact that negative publicity about our company can and has caused current and potential future customers to evaluate the sales of our solutions more than in the past. We expect international sales cycles to be even longer than our domestic sales cycles. To combat these challenges, we invest in research and development, increase awareness of our solutions, invest in new sales and marketing campaigns, often in different languages for international sales, and hire additional sales representatives to drive sales to continue to maintain our position as a market leader. In addition, we believe that entering into strategic partnerships with other service providers to cities and municipalities offers another potential avenue for expansion. We will also focus on expanding our business by introducing new products and services to existing customers, such as ResourceRouter and CrimeTracer, and gaining new customers for SoundThinking Labs. We believe that developing and acquiring products for law enforcement in adjacent categories is a path for additional growth given our large and growing installed base of police departments who trust our products, support and way of doing business. The ability to cross-sell new products provides an opportunity to grow revenues per customer and lifetime value. Challenges we face in this area include ensuring our new products are reliable, integrated well with other SoundThinking solutions, and priced and serviced appropriately. In some cases, we will need to bring in new skill sets to properly develop, market, sell or service these new products depending on the categories they represent. Consistent with this strategy, we expanded our suite of solutions with the acquisitions of LEEDS and Forensic Logic. With respect to international sales, we believe that we have the potential to expand our coverage within existing areas, and to pursue opportunities in Latin America and other regions of the world. By adding additional sales resources in strategic locations, we believe we will be better positioned to reach these markets. However, we recognize that we have limited international operational experience and currently operate in a limited number of regions outside of the United States. Operating successfully in international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to additional regulatory, economic and political risks. We may face additional challenges that may delay contract execution related to negotiating with governments in transition and the use of third-party integrations and consultants. Moreover, we anticipate that different political and regulatory considerations that vary across different jurisdictions could extend or make more difficult to predict the length of what is already a lengthy sales cycle. 18 Net New Go-Live Cities Net new go-live cities represent the number of cities covered by deployments of our gunshot detection ShotSpotter solution that were formally approved by customers during the year, both from initial and expanded customer deployments, net of cities that ceased to be live during the period due to customer cancellations. New cities include deployed coverage areas that may have been sold, or booked, in a prior period. We focus on net new go-live cities as a key business metric to measure our operational performance and market penetration. Our net new go-live cities in the first quarter of 2023 and 2022 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net new go-live cities 6 8 Components of Results of Operations Presentation of Financial Statements Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Revenues We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription services. We recognize subscription fees ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the subscription, which for new customers is typically initially one to three years in length. Customer contracts include one-time set-up fees for the set-up of our sensors in the customers coverage areas, training and third-party integration licenses. If the set-up fees are deemed to be a material right, they are recognized ratably over three years depending on the contract term. Training and third-party integration license fees are recognized upon delivery. For ShotSpotter sales to cities, we generally invoice customers for 50% of the total contract value when the contract is fully executed and for the remaining 50% when the subscription service is operational and ready to go live that is, when the customer has acknowledged the completion of all the deliverables in the signed customer acceptance form. For CrimeTracer, we generally invoice customers 100% of the total contract value when the subscription service is operational, which is often soon after contract execution. All fees billed in advance of services being delivered are recorded as deferred revenue. The timing of when new miles go live can be uncertain and, as a result, can have a significant impact on the levels of revenues and deferred revenue from quarter to quarter. For ShotSpotter, our pricing model is based on a per-square-mile basis. For ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate, contracts are priced on a customized-site basis. For ResourceRouter and CrimeTracer, pricing is generally tied to the number of sworn police officers in a particular agency. We may also offer discounts or other incentives in conjunction with all sales in an effort to introduce the product, accelerate sales or extend renewals for a longer contract term. As a result of our process for invoicing contracts and renewals upon execution, our cash flow from operations and accounts receivable can fluctuate due to timing of contract execution and timing of deployment. We generally invoice subscription service renewals for 100% of the total contract value when the renewal contract is executed. Renewal fees are recognized ratably over the term of the renewal, which is typically one year. While most of our customers elect to renew their agreements, in some cases, they may not be able to obtain the proper approvals or funding to complete the renewal prior to expiration. For these customers, we stop recognizing subscription revenues at the end of the current contract term, even though we may continue to provide services for a period of time until the renewal process is completed. Once the renewal is complete, we recognize the ratable subscription revenues for the period between the expiration of the original term of the agreement and the completion of the renewal process in the month in which the renewal is executed. If a customer declines to renew its subscription prior to the end of the contract term, remaining setup fees, if any, are immediately recognized. With the acquisition of LEEDS, we generate revenues through the sale of (i) maintenance and support services and (ii) professional software development services to a single customer, through a sales channel intermediary. The sales channel intermediary contract includes an annual, renewable subscription for software and related maintenance and support services. The contract also provides for the procurement of professional services, such as for software development and testing for product feature enhancements, by executing supplementary work orders. Using its technology, CaseBuilder 19 is our case management solution that helps automate investigative work and improve case clearance rates for which pricing is generally based on the number of sworn police officers in a particular agency. With the acquisition of Forensic Logic, we also generate revenues from subscriptions of CrimeTracer, cloud-based data services for advanced search and analysis tools. We also provide access to this technology platform to an intermediary to either be resold or combined with their own materials, software and/or services, to create an integrated solution that is provided to their end-user customers. We recognize this revenue net of margins paid to the intermediary. We also generate revenues from CaseBuilder Crime Gun (formerly ShotSpotter GCM), a first-of-its-kind digital case management solution that automates the process by which key information is input, captured and used to identify associated gun crime cases leading to the identification of persons of interest. Subscriptions for CaseBuilder Crime Gun recognize revenue similar to our ShotSpotter and CrimeTracer products. It is likely that international deployments may have different payment and billing terms due to their local laws, restrictions or other customary terms and conditions. SoundThinking Labs projects may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they are generally sold on a cost-plus basis. We anticipate that, due to rising costs due to inflation, our customers may still face budget shortfalls due to the increased expenditures our customers have had to endure and delays in their ability to approve proposals for contracts as a result of changes in business cycles, funding and customer budget setting processes. Costs Costs include the cost of revenues and impairment of property and equipment. For ShotSpotter solutions, cost of revenues primarily includes depreciation expense associated with capitalized customer acoustic sensor networks, communication expenses, costs related to hosting our service applications, costs related to operating our IRC, providing remote and on-site customer support and maintenance and forensic services, providing customer training and onboarding services, certain personnel and related costs of operations, stock-based compensation and allocated overheads that include information technology, facility and equipment depreciation costs. Impairment of property and equipment is primarily attributable to our write-off of the remaining book value of sensor networks related to customers lost. In the near term, we expect our cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as our installed base increases, although certain of our costs of revenues are fixed and do not need to increase commensurate with increases in revenues. In addition, depreciation expense associated with deployed equipment is recognized over the first five years from the go-live date. We also expect cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success capabilities to drive growth and value for our customers. For revenues generated through the sale of proprietary software licenses and related maintenance and support services and professional software development services, cost of revenues generally include employee compensation costs that are relatively fixed, third-party contractor costs, allocated facility costs and overhead, and the costs of billable expenses such as travel and lodging. The cost of revenues for CrimeTracer is generally related to employee compensation costs and datacenter hosting services, both of which are relatively fixed. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Consultants, salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and other personnel costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. We include stock-based compensation expense incurred in connection with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to the applicable operating expense category based on the equity award recipients functional area. 20 We are focused on executing on our growth strategy. As a result, in the near term we expect our total operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we incur additional expenses due to growth. Although our operating expenses will fluctuate, we expect that over time, they will generally decrease as a percentage of revenues. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our sales and marketing personnel, commissions earned by our sales personnel, marketing expenses for trade shows and lead generation programs, consulting fees, travel and facility-related costs and allocated overhead. We expect sales and marketing expenses will increase in the near-term in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our organization and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of commission expense, marketing campaigns and tradeshows. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our research and development personnel, consulting fees and allocated overhead. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to develop new lower-cost sensor hardware, develop new features, improve functionality of our solutions and adapt to new technologies or changes to existing technologies. We are investing in engineering resources to support further development of ResourceRouter, CaseBuilder and CrimeTracer. The focus of this effort will be in the areas of data science modeling, user experience, core application functionality and backend infrastructure improvements, including integration of ShotSpotter gunshot data to enhance forecasting of gun violence. We are also investing in research and development resources in conjunction with our SoundThinking Labs projects and initiatives. The initial focus of these efforts is to develop innovative sensor applications as well as to test and expand the functionality of our outdoor sensors in challenging environmental conditions. In the near term, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our software and invest in the development of our services. We will continue to invest in research and development to leverage our large and growing database of acoustic events, which includes those from both gunfire and non-gunfire. We also intend to leverage third-party artificial intelligence and our own evolving cognitive and analytical applications to improve the efficiency of our solutions. Certain of these applications and outputs may expand the platform of services that we will be able to offer our customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our executive, finance, and administrative personnel, legal, litigation, strategic communications, accounting and other professional services fees, and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. In the near term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business, support our operations as a public company, cover increased legal, litigation and strategic communications costs, and increase our headcount. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and local and franchise tax expenses. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our income before tax and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits and deductions, as applicable. 21 We continually monitor all positive and negative evidence regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets and may record assets when it becomes more likely than not that they will be realized, which may impact the expense or benefit from income taxes. In assessing the realizabilityof deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We regularly assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. We consider projected future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies, then record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of the net deferred taxes to an amount that is more likely than not able to be realized. Based upon our assessment of all available evidence, including the previous three years of income before tax after permanent items, estimates of future profitability, and our overall prospects of future business, we have determined that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to realize a portion of the deferred tax assets in the future. We will continue to assess the potential realization of deferred tax assets on an annual basis, or an interim basis if circumstances warrant. If our actual results and updated projections vary significantly from the projections used as a basis for this determination, we mayneed to changethevaluationallowance against the grossdeferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth our selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): As a % of As a % of Change 2023 Revenues 2022 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 20,620 100 % $ 21,214 100 % $ (594 ) -3 % Costs Cost of revenues 9,243 45 % 8,290 39 % 953 11 % Impairment of property and equipment 72 Total costs 9,315 45 % 8,290 39 % 1,025 12 % Gross profit 11,305 55 % 12,924 61 % (1,619 ) (13 %) Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 5,848 28 % 5,576 26 % 272 5 % Research and development 2,653 13 % 2,627 12 % 26 1 % General and administrative 4,616 22 % 4,289 20 % 327 8 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration (6 ) Total operating expenses 13,111 64 % 12,492 59 % 619 5 % Operating income (loss) (1,806 ) (9 %) 432 2 % (2,238 ) (518 %) Other income (expense), net 16 (45 ) 61 136 % Provision for income taxes Net income (loss) $ (1,790 ) (9 %) $ 387 2 % $ (2,177 ) (563 %) Revenues The decrease in revenues of $0.6 million was primarily attributable to a $2.4 million decrease in revenues from monthly support contracts due to a delayed amendment of a contract from late 2021 into January 2022, which supplemented revenues for the first quarter of 2022. This revenue decrease was offset by a $1.4 million increase in revenues from new customers and expansion of existing customer coverage areas and a $0.4 million increase in revenues from CrimeTracer. We went live in six new ShotSpotter cities and expanded in eight current customer sites during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Costs The increase in cost of revenues of $1.0 million was due primarily to an increase in product costs due to the increase in our customer base and an increase in personnel costs. 22 Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.3 million, primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in salaries, commissions and other personnel costs and a $0.2 million increase in marketing activities, offset by a $0.5 million decrease in commission costs associated with the decreased monthly support contract revenue. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense remained flat compared to the prior-year period. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased by $0.3 million and was due primarily to a $0.6 million increase in personnel-related costs, offset by a $0.3 million reduction in legal fees. Other Income (Expense), Net The increase in other expense, net was due primarily to increased interest income due to rising interest rates. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. There was no provision for income taxes recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Funds Our operations have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity, debt financing arrangements and cash from operating activities. Our principal source of liquidity is cash and cash equivalents totaling $5.1million and accounts receivable of $22.4 million as of March 31, 2023. Our available loan facility at March 31, 2023 was $25.0 million, and as of March 31, 2023, no amounts were outstanding on our loan facility. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our available credit facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe that despite our negative working capital, the costs to perform the short-term deferred revenue is relatively low compared to the balance of $37.5 million. However, should additional working capital be needed, we can utilize our unused loan facility which was renewed on November 27, 2022. We believe that we will meet longer term expected future working capital and capital expenditure requirements through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our available credit facility. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on sales and marketing, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new product introductions, market acceptance of our products and overall economic conditions. We may also seek additional capital to fund our operations, including through the sale of equity or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the future sale of equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing common stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Additionally, there is no guarantee debt or equity financing will be available to us on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. 23 Use of Funds Our historical uses of cash have primarily consisted of cash used for operating activities, such as expansion of our sales and marketing operations, research and development activities and other working capital needs, and cash used in investing activities, such as property and equipment expenditures to install infrastructure in customer cities in order to deliver our solutions. Our expected material cash requirements are similar to our historical uses of cash as well as in connection with contingent earnouts, our stock repurchase program and repayment of any outstanding debt obligations under our credit facility, each as described below. In January 2022, we acquired Forensic Logic for purchase consideration of $31.6 million, consisting of $4.9 million in cash, subject to working capital adjustments, 464,540 shares of our common stock that was valued at $14.3 million at the time of acquisition. The purchase consideration also included a contingent earnout payable up to $20.0 million based on Forensic Logic's revenues generated during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2023. The earnout for 2022 was not earned, therefore no amounts will be paid in respect of this earnout in 2023. Up to $10.5 million in earnout will be payable based on Forensic Logics revenues generated during 2023. Any earned amounts will be payable within approximately 120 days after the end of 2023. On November 24, 2020, we completed the acquisition of LEEDS for a purchase consideration of $21.6 million in cash, subject to working capital adjustments, and the issuance of 63,901 shares of our common stock that were valued at $2.0 million at the time of acquisition. The purchase consideration also included a contingent earnout payable based on LEEDS revenues generated during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022. The earnout for 2022 was earned, and an earnout of $1.5 million was paid in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Stock Repurchase Program In November 2022, we announced that our board of directors had approved a stock repurchase program (the "2022 Repurchase Program") for up to $25.0 million of our common stock. The shares could be repurchased from time to time in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or by other methods in accordance with federal securities laws. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will be determined by management in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions and applicable legal requirements. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to purchase any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we repurchased 35,369 shares of our common stock at an average price of $35.43 per share for approximately $1.3 million, under the 2022 Repurchase Program. The repurchases were made in open market transactions using cash on hand, and all of the shares repurchased were retired. Credit Facility In September 2018, we entered into our Umpqua Credit Agreement, initially providing for borrowing capacity of $10.0 million. The agreement was amended in November 2022 to increase the size of our available revolving loan facility to $25.0 million. The revolving loan facility is for general working capital purposes. Our available loan facility as of March 31, 2023 was $25.0 million. There were no borrowings outstanding as of March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Cash Flows Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (1,198 ) $ 1,283 Investing activities (1,560 ) (6,526 ) Financing activities (2,629 ) (1,621 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (5,387 ) $ (6,864 ) 24 Operating Activities Our net income (loss) and cash flows provided by operating activities are significantly influenced by our increase in headcount to support our growth, increase in legal expenses, outside services fees, and sales and marketing expenses, and our ability to bill and collect in a timely manner. We used $1.2 million of net cash in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $1.3 million of cash being provided during the same period of 2022, primarily due to a $9.7 million decrease in deferred revenue, a $1.1 million increase in payments for personnel costs, a $0.4 million decrease in cash collected, a $0.5 million increase in other expenses, offset by a $9.2 million increase in accounts receivable. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist of business acquisition expenditures, capital expenditures to install our solutions in customer coverage areas and purchases of property and equipment. Investing activities used $1.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was primarily driven by investments in property and equipment installed for new deployments for our solutions in customer coverage areas. Investing activities used $6.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily driven by the acquisition of Forensic Logic for $4.6 million as well as investments in property and equipment installed for our solutions in customer coverage areas. Financing Activities Cash generated by financing activities includes net proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants, proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan purchases offset by payments for repurchases of our common stock and contingent earnout liabilities. Financing activities used $2.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023. This was driven by the payout of $1.5 million for the LEEDS contingent consideration and $1.2 million in payments for repurchases of our common stock, offset by $0.1 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Financing activities used $1.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, which was driven by $1.6 million in payments for repurchases of our common stock. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues, assets, liabilities, costs and expenses. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. Our critical accounting estimates are described under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the significant or material changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2023 see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the notes of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 25 Item 3. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates and inflation. There were no material changes in our market risk during the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the market risk disclosed in the Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk section of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K.