Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the financial statements and accompanying notes and other financial information in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 31, 2025. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading public safety technology company that combines data-driven solutions and strategic advisory services for law enforcement, security teams and civic leadership. In April 2023, we changed the company name, ShotSpotter, Inc., to SoundThinking, Inc., reflecting our broader impact on public safety through a growing set of industry-leading law enforcement tools and community-focused solutions. As part of the rebranding, we introduced our SafetySmartTM platform that includes six data-driven tools consisting of: (i) our flagship product, ShotSpotter, our leading outdoor gunshot detection, location and alerting system trusted by 178cities and 22 universities and corporations as of September 30, 2025, (ii) CrimeTracer, a leading law enforcement search engine that enables investigators to search through more than one billion criminal justice records from across jurisdictions to generate tactical leads and quickly make intelligent connections to solve cases, (iii) CaseBuilder, a one-stop investigative management system for tracking, reporting, and collaborating on cases, (iv) ResourceRouter, which directs the deployment of patrol and community anti-violence resources in an objective way to help maximize the impact of limited resources and improve community safety, (v) PlateRanger powered by Rekor, an ALPR and vehicle identification solution that leverages AI and machine learning to enhance investigative efficiency and provide real-time data sharing for law enforcement, introduced in July 2024 through a strategic partnership with Rekor Systems, Inc. and (vi) SafePointe, an AI-based weapons detection system. We also offer other security solutions within our flagship product offering ShotSpotter, including ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate that are typically smaller-scale deployments of ShotSpotter vertically marketed to universities, corporate campuses and key infrastructure centers to mitigate risk and enhance security by notifying authorities of outdoor gunfire incidents, saving critical minutes for first responders to arrive. SoundThinking Labs supports innovative uses of our technology to help protect wildlife and the environment. Our gunshot detection solutions consist of highly-specialized, cloud-based software integrated with proprietary, internet-enabled sensors designed to detect outdoor gunfire. The speed and accuracy of our gunfire alerts enable law enforcement and security personnel to consistently and quickly respond to shooting events including those unreported through 911, which can increase the chances of apprehending the shooter, providing timely aid to victims, and identifying witnesses before they scatter, as well as aid in evidence collection and serve as an overall deterrent. When a potential gunfire incident is detected by our sensors, our system precisely locates where the incident occurred and applies machine classification combined with human review to analyze and validate the incident. An alert containing a location on a map and critical information about the incident is sent directly to subscribing law enforcement or security personnel through any internet-connected computer and to iPhone or Android mobile devices. Our software sends gunfire data along with the audio of the triggering sound to our Incident Review Center (IRC), where our trained incident review specialists are on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year to screen and confirm actual gunfire incidents. Our trained incident review specialists can supplement alerts with additional tactical information, such as the potential presence of multiple shooters or the use of high-capacity weapons. Gunshot incidents reviewed by our IRC result in alerts typically sent within approximately 45 seconds of the receipt of the gunfire incident. 17 We offer our solutions on a software-as-a-service subscription model to our customers. We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter on a per-square-mile basis. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter for Campus, and ShotSpotter for Corporate are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. Our ResourceRouter solution, an offering of CaseBuilder focused on gun violence, and CrimeTracer are also sold on a subscription basis generally customized based on the number of sworn officers in a particular city. We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of SafePointe on a per-lane basis, with a lane being the detection area between two sensors. As of September 30, 2025, we had ShotSpotter, ShotSpotter for Campus, and ShotSpotter for Corporate coverage areas under contract covered over 1,088 square miles, of which over 1,075 square miles had gone live. Coverage areas under contract for ShotSpotter included 178 cities and coverage areas under contract for ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate included 22 campuses/sites across the United States, South Africa, Uruguay, Brazil and the Bahamas, and included some of the largest cities in the United States. As of September 30, 2025, we had 281 SafePointe lanes under contract. Most of our revenues are attributable to customers based in the United States. While we intend to continue devoting resources to increase sales of our solutions, we expect that revenues from ShotSpotter will continue to comprise a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. SoundThinking Labs projects are generally conducted in coordination with a sponsoring charitable organization and may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they will generally be sold on a cost-plus basis. As such, SoundThinking Labs projects will normally produce gross margins significantly lower than most of our other solutions. Additionally, in early 2021, we added new pricing programs for Tier 4 and 5 law enforcement agencies (those with fewer than 100 sworn officers) that allow them to contract for our gunshot detection solutions to cover a footprint of less than three square miles, using standardized coverage parameters, at a discounted annual subscription rate. Since our founding over 28 years ago, SoundThinking has been and continues to be a purpose-led company. We are a mission-driven organization that focuses on improving public safety outcomes. We accomplish this by earning the trust of law enforcement and providing solutions to help them better engage and strengthen the police-community relationships in fulfilling their sworn obligation to serve and protect all. Our inspiration comes from our principal founder, Dr. Bob Showen, who believes that the highest and best use of technology is to promote social good. We are committed to developing comprehensive, respectful, and engaged partnerships with law enforcement agencies, elected officials and communities focused on making a positive difference in the world. We enter into subscription agreements that typically range from one to three years in duration. Substantially all of our sales are to governmental agencies and universities, which often undertake a prolonged contract evaluation process that affects the size or the timing of our sales contracts and may likewise increase our customer acquisition costs. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers to produce components of our solutions. We have no long-term contracts with these manufacturers and purchases from them are generally on a purchase order basis. Although we use a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers, we believe that we could find alternate suppliers or manufacturers if circumstances required us to do so, in part because a portion of the components required by our solutions are available off the shelf. We generated revenues of $25.1 million and $26.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, representing a decrease of 4%. For each of the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 revenues from ShotSpotter represented approximately 65% of total revenues. Our current largest customer, the City of New York accounted for 28% of our total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025. The City of New York and the City of Chicago accounted for 23% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024. The City of Chicago did not renew our contract in November 2024. We submitted a proposal in response to a request for proposals from the City of Chicago for a new contract. At this time, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in winning the new contract with Chicago. We generated revenues of $79.3 million and $78.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, representing an increase of 1%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, revenues from ShotSpotter represented approximately 63%, and 67% of total revenues, respectively. Our current largest customer, the City of New York accounted for 30% of our total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. The City of New York and the City of Chicago accounted for 25% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. 18 For the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, revenues generated within the United States (including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands) accounted for $24.3 million and $26.0 million, respectively, or 97% and 99% of total revenues, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, revenues generated within the United States (including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands) accounted for $77.0 million and $77.8 million, respectively, or 97% and 99% of total revenues, respectively. We had a net loss of $2.0 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We had a net loss of $6.6 million and $5.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was $110.9 million and $104.3 million at September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. We have focused on growing our business and believe that our future growth is dependent on many factors, including our ability to increase our customer base, expand the coverage of our solutions among our existing customers, expand our international presence, increase sales of our security solutions and retain our customers. Our future growth will primarily depend on the market acceptance for outdoor gunshot detection solutions, and expanding into new markets for our other security solutions. Challenges we face in this regard include our target customers not having access to adequate funding sources, the fact that contracting with government entities can be complex, expensive and time-consuming, the fact that our typical sales cycle is often very long and difficult to estimate accurately and the fact that negative publicity about our company can and has caused current and potential future customers to evaluate the sales of our solutions more than in the past. We expect international sales cycles to be even longer than our domestic sales cycles. To combat these challenges, we invest in research and development, increase awareness of our solutions, invest in new sales and marketing campaigns, often in different languages for international sales, and hire additional sales representatives to drive sales to continue to maintain our position as a market leader. In addition, we believe that entering into strategic partnerships with other service providers to cities and municipalities offers another potential avenue for expansion. We will also focus on expanding our business by introducing new products and services to existing customers, such as ResourceRouter, CrimeTracer and as a result of our acquisition of SafePointe, an AI-driven weapon detection system, and acquiring intellectual property assets. For instance, we have an opportunity to grow in the healthcare vertical with Californias AB 2975 mandate, which requires automated weapons detection systems in all general acute care and psychiatric hospitals by March 1, 2027. This legislation has created a substantial addressable market opportunity for us. We believe that developing and acquiring products for law enforcement in adjacent categories is a path for additional growth. We believe our large and growing installed base of police departments who trust SoundThinkings products, support, and way of doing business provide revenue growth opportunities. The ability to cross-sell new products provides an opportunity to grow revenues per customer and lifetime value. We will also focus on expanding into new markets in conjunction with new regulations in California requiring weapons detection systems in hospitals and exploring other new markets such as casinos. Challenges we face in this area include ensuring our new products are reliable, integrated well with other SoundThinking solutions, and priced and serviced appropriately. In some cases, we will need to bring in new skill sets to properly develop, market, sell or service these new products depending on the categories they represent. Consistent with this strategy, we expanded our suite of solutions with the acquisitions of Technologic, Forensic Logic and SafePointe. With respect to international sales, we believe that we have the potential to expand our coverage within existing areas, and to pursue opportunities in Latin America and other regions of the world. By adding additional sales resources in strategic locations, we believe we will be better positioned to reach these markets. However, we recognize that we have limited international operational experience and currently operate in a limited number of regions outside of the United States. Operating successfully in international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to additional regulatory, economic and political risks. We may face additional challenges that may delay contract execution related to negotiating with governments in transition, the use of third-party integrations and consultants. Moreover, we anticipate that different political and regulatory considerations that vary across different jurisdictions could extend or make more difficult to predict the length of what is already a lengthy sales cycle. 19 Net New Go-Live Cities and Universities Net new go-live cities and universities represent the number of cities and universities covered by deployments of our gunshot detection solution, ShotSpotter, that were formally approved by customers during the period to be operational and ready to go live, both from initial and expanded customer deployments, net of cities and universities that ceased to be live during the period due to customer cancellations. New cities and universities include deployed coverage areas that may have been sold, or booked, in a prior period, but were formally approved during the period as noted above. We focus on net new go-live cities and universities as a key business metric to measure our operational performance and market penetration. Our net new go-live cities and universities in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Net new go-live cities and universities 3 7 15 Components of Results of Operations Presentation of Financial Statements Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Revenues We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter on a per-square-mile basis and generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of SafePointe on a per-lane basis, a lane being the detection area between two sensors. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. Our ResourceRouter, CaseBuilder and CrimeTracer solutions are also sold on a subscription basis that is generally customized based on the number of sworn officers in a particular city. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription services. We recognize subscription fees ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the subscription, which for new customers is typically initially one to three years in length. Customer contracts include one-time set-up fees for the set-up of our sensors in the customers coverage areas, training, and third-party integration licenses. If the set-up fees are deemed to be a material right, they are recognized ratably over three to five years depending on the contract term. Training and third-party integration license fees are recognized upon delivery. We also generate revenues through sales to two customers through sales channel intermediaries that include enhanced services. One sales channel intermediary contract through Technologic includes (i) a single on-premises software license for our proprietary software technology and related maintenance and support services and (ii) professional software development services, such as for software development and testing for product feature enhancements, by executing supplementary work orders. The second sales channel intermediary contract includes an enterprise CaseBuilder solution with supplemental professional services to integrate CaseBuilder with the customers existing systems that will remain in place. For ShotSpotter sales to cities, we generally invoice customers for 50% of the total contract value when the contract is fully executed and for the remaining 50% when the subscription service is operational and ready to go live that is, when the customer has acknowledged the completion of all the deliverables in the signed customer acceptance form. For SafePointe, we generally invoice the first years subscription price when the contract is fully executed. For ShotSpotter for Campus, ShotSpotter for Corporate and CrimeTracer, we generally invoice customers 100% of the total contract value when the subscription service is operational, which is often soon after contract execution. All fees billed in advance of services being delivered are recorded as deferred revenue. The timing of when new miles go live can be uncertain and, as a result, can have a significant impact on the levels of revenues and deferred revenue from quarter to quarter. For ShotSpotter, our pricing model is based on a per-square-mile basis. For SafePointe, our pricing model is based on a per-lane basis. For ShotSpotter for Campus, ShotSpotter for Corporate and CaseBuilder, our pricing model is on a customized-site basis. For ResourceRouter, CaseBuilder and CrimeTracer, pricing is currently customized, generally tied 20 to the number of sworn police officers in a particular agency. We may also offer discounts or other incentives in conjunction with all ShotSpotter sales in an effort to introduce the product, accelerate sales or extend renewals for a longer contract term. As a result of our process for invoicing contracts and renewals upon execution, our cash flow from operations and accounts receivable can fluctuate due to timing of contract execution and timing of deployment. We generally invoice subscription service renewals for 100% of the total contract value when the renewal contract is executed. Renewal fees are recognized ratably over the term of the renewal, which is typically one year. While most of our customers elect to renew their agreements, in some cases, they may not be able to obtain the proper approvals or funding to complete the renewal prior to expiration. For these customers, we stop recognizing subscription revenues at the end of the current contract term, even though we may continue to provide services for a period of time until the renewal process is completed. Once the renewal is complete, we then recognize subscription revenues for the period between the expiration of the original term of the agreement and the completion of the renewal process in the month in which the renewal is executed. If a customer declines to renew its subscription prior to the end of the contract term, remaining setup fees, if any, are immediately recognized. Through Forensic Logic, we generate revenues from subscriptions of CrimeTracer, cloud-based data services for advanced search and analysis tools. We also provide access to this technology platform to an intermediary to either be resold or combined with their own materials, software and/or services, to create an integrated solution that is provided to their end-user customers. We recognize this revenue net of margins paid to the intermediary. We also generate revenues from CaseBuilder, a first-of-its-kind digital case management solution that automates the process by which key information is input, captured and used to identify associated gun crime cases leading to the identification of persons of interest. Subscriptions for CaseBuilder recognize revenue similar to our ShotSpotter and CrimeTracer products. For SafePointe, we generate revenues from subscriptions of our AI-based weapons detection system based on the number of entryways, or lanes, being covered. It is likely that international deployments may have different payment and billing terms due to their local laws, restrictions or other customary terms and conditions. SoundThinking Labs projects may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they are generally sold on a cost-plus basis. We anticipate that, due to rising costs from inflation, our customers may experience increased expenditures resulting in budget shortfalls and changes in their business cycle, which may cause delays in their ability to approve proposals for contracts. Costs Costs include the cost of revenues and impairment of property and equipment. Cost of revenues primarily includes depreciation expense associated with capitalized customer acoustic sensor networks, communication expenses, costs related to hosting our service applications, costs related to operating our IRC, providing remote and on-site customer support and maintenance and forensic services, providing customer training and onboarding services, certain personnel and related costs of operations, stock-based compensation and allocated overheads that include information technology, facility and equipment depreciation costs. Cost of revenues for our SafePointe solution are similar except that depreciation of the capitalized customer equipment is smaller due to the lower costs of SafePointe customer equipment. Impairment of property and equipment is primarily attributable to our write-off of the remaining book value of sensor networks related to customers lost. In the near term, we expect our cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as our installed base increases, although certain of our costs of revenues are fixed and do not need to increase commensurate with increases in revenues. In addition, depreciation expense associated with deployed equipment is recognized over the first five years from the go live date. We also expect cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success capabilities to drive growth and value for our customers. In addition, many of our standardized components used broadly in our sensors are manufactured in significant quantities in concentrated geographic regions, particularly in Greater China. 21 As a result, the recently increased tariffs placed on components exported from China by the U.S. government will increase our costs of revenues. For revenues generated through the sale of a proprietary software license and related maintenance and support services and professional software development services, cost of revenues generally includes employee compensation costs that are relatively fixed, third-party contractor costs, allocated facility costs and overhead and the costs of billable expenses such as travel and lodging. The unpredictability of the timing of entering into significant professional services agreements may cause significant fluctuations in our costs which, in turn, may impact our quarterly financial results. The cost of revenues for CrimeTracer, ResourceRouter and CaseBuilder is generally related to employee compensation costs and data center hosting services, both of which are relatively fixed. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Consultants, salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and other personnel costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. We include stock-based compensation expense incurred in connection with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to the applicable operating expense category based on the equity award recipients functional area. We are focused on executing our growth strategy. As a result, in the near term we expect our total operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we incur additional expenses due to growth and investments in AI to enhance our public safety solutions. Although our operating expenses will fluctuate, we expect that over time, they will generally decrease as a percentage of revenues. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our sales and marketing personnel, commissions earned by our sales personnel, marketing expenses for trade shows and lead generation programs, consulting fees and travel and facility-related costs. While our sales and marketing expenses have recently decreased due to higher commission expenses related to our contract with the New York City Police Department in 2024, we expect sales and marketing expense will increase in the near-term in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our organization and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of commission expense, marketing campaigns and tradeshows. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our research and development personnel, consulting fees and allocated facilities and general operational overhead. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to develop new lower-cost sensor hardware, develop new features, improve functionality of our solutions and adapt to new technologies or changes to existing technologies. We are investing in engineering resources to support further development of ResourceRouter, CrimeTracer, CaseBuilder, PlateRanger and SafePointe. The focus of this effort will be in the areas of data science modeling, user experience, core application functionality and backend infrastructure improvements, including integration of ShotSpotter gunshot data to enhance forecasting of gun violence. We are also investing in research and development resources in conjunction with our SoundThinking Labs projects and initiatives. The initial focus of these efforts is to develop innovative sensor applications as well as to test and expand the functionality of our outdoor sensors in challenging environmental conditions. In the near term, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our software and invest in the development of our services. We will continue to invest in research and development to leverage our large and growing database of acoustic events, which includes those from both gunfire and non-gunfire. We also intend to leverage third-party artificial intelligence and our own evolving cognitive and analytical applications to improve the efficiency of our solutions. Certain of these applications and outputs may expand the platform of services that we will be able to offer our customers. 22 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our executive, finance and administrative personnel, legal, litigation, strategic communications, accounting and other professional services fees, and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. In the near term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues as we grow our business and comply with the requirement to include an auditor attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our expectation of becoming an accelerated filer. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration primarily consists of increases or decreases in our contingent consideration liabilities recorded for potential earnouts from our acquisition of SafePointe. The changes result from revenue actuals and revised revenue estimates utilized in the fair value methodology to estimate the contingent liability for the earnouts. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income, interest expense and local and franchise tax expenses. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our income before tax and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits and deductions, as applicable. Historically, our income tax expense has been at the state level. We continually monitor all positive and negative evidence regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets and may record assets when it becomes more likely than not, that they will be realized, which may impact the expense or benefit from income taxes. In assessing the realizabilityof deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We regularly assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. We consider projected future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies, then record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of the net deferred taxes to an amount that is more likely than not able to be realized. Based upon our assessment of all available evidence, including the previous three years of income before tax after permanent items, estimates of future profitability, and our overall prospects of future business, we have determined that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to realize a portion of the deferred tax assets in the future. We will continue to assess the potential realization of deferred tax assets on an annual basis, or an interim basis if circumstances warrant. If our actual results and updated projections vary significantly from the projections used as a basis for this determination, we mayneed to changethevaluationallowance against the grossdeferred tax assets. On July 4, 2025, the 2025 budget reconciliation bill, also known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025 (the Act) was enacted into law. The Act includes changes to U.S. tax law which include modifications to deductions of research and experimental expenditures, limitations on deductions for interest expense, and accelerated fixed asset depreciation that may impact us starting in 2025. We are still in the process of evaluating the impact of the Act to our consolidated financial statements and an estimate of the impact cannot be made at this time. 23 Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands): As a % of As a % of Change 2025 Revenues 2024 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 25,100 100 % $ 26,250 100 % $ (1,150 ) -4 % Costs Cost of revenues 11,229 45 % 10,979 42 % 250 2 % Impairment of property and equipment 237 1 % 54 183 339 % Total costs 11,466 46 % 11,033 42 % 433 4 % Gross profit 13,634 54 % 15,217 58 % (1,583 ) -10 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 5,796 23 % 7,181 27 % (1,385 ) -19 % Research and development 4,097 16 % 3,413 13 % 684 20 % General and administrative 5,797 23 % 5,669 22 % 128 2 % Total operating expenses 15,690 62 % 16,263 62 % (573 ) -4 % Operating loss (2,056 ) -8 % (1,046 ) -4 % (1,010 ) 97 % Interest expense, net 14 7 7 100 % Other expense, net (160 ) (82 ) (78 ) 95 % (Benefit) or provision for income taxes (158 ) 319 1 % (477 ) -150 % Net loss $ (2,044 ) -8 % $ (1,440 ) -5 % $ (604 ) 42 % Revenues The decrease in revenues of $1.2 million was primarily due to the fact that the third quarter of 2024 included approximately $2.8 million from our contract with the City of Chicago, offset by $1.7 million in new bookings and expansions with existing customers during the third quarter of 2025. Costs of Revenues The increase in cost of revenues of $0.4 million was primarily due to product cost related to our licensing of software for the NYPD and maintenance activities for our ShotSpotter deployments. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense decreased by $1.4 million, primarily due to $1.0 million commission expense related to the contract with the NYPD in 2024, without a corresponding similar transaction in 2025 and $0.4 million decrease in payroll and compensation related to a decrease in headcount. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased by $0.7 million, primarily due to an increase of $0.3 million in outside consulting expense related to our investments in enhancing our AI capabilities and $0.4 million in other research and development expenses. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased by $0.1 million, primarily due to an increase of $0.1 million in accounting fees related to our efforts to comply with the requirement to include an auditor attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our expectation of becoming an accelerated filer and an increase $0.2 million public relations and legal expenses offset by $0.2 million decrease in payroll and compensation related to a decrease in headcount and stock-based compensation expense. Other Income (Expense), Net The other expense, net decreased by less than $0.1 million compared to 2024. 24 Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. For the three months ended September 30, 2025 the income tax benefit was $0.2 million and for the three months ended September 30, 2024, provision for income taxes was $0.3 million. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands): As a % of As a % of Change 2025 Revenues 2024 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 79,338 100 % $ 78,620 100 % $ 718 1 % Costs Cost of revenues 35,005 45 % 32,031 41 % 2,974 9 % Impairment of property and equipment 310 412 (102 ) -25 % Total costs 35,315 45 % 32,443 41 % 2,872 9 % Gross profit 44,023 55 % 46,177 59 % (2,154 ) -5 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 19,580 25 % 21,615 28 % (2,035 ) -9 % Research and development 11,908 15 % 10,441 13 % 1,467 14 % General and administrative 18,738 23 % 18,379 23 % 359 2 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration (554 ) -1 % 554 -100 % Restructuring expense 346 1 % (346 ) -100 % Total operating expenses 50,226 63 % 50,227 64 % (1 ) 0 % Operating loss (6,203 ) -8 % (4,050 ) -5 % (2,153 ) 53 % Interest expense, net (18 ) (176 ) 158 -90 % Other expense, net (399 ) (208 ) (191 ) 92 % (Benefit) or provision for income taxes 28 667 1 % (639 ) -96 % Net loss $ (6,648 ) -8 % $ (5,101 ) -6 % $ (1,547 ) 30 % Revenues The increase in revenues of $0.7 million was primarily attributable to approximately $4.4 million in new bookings and expansions, $1.6 million increase in revenue from New York City, $3.5 million of catch-up revenue from two three-year contract renewals with the New York City Police Department which were renewed in the first quarter of 2025 and $1.0 million increase from Puerto Rico, offset by a reduction in revenue due to the fact that the nine months ended September 30, 2024 included approximately $8.1 million resulting from our contract with the City of Chicago and other reductions of $1.7 million from various accounts. Costs of Revenues The increase in cost of revenues of $2.9 million was due primarily to an increase of $1.0 million in Information Technology ("IT") costs related to our investments in enhancing our AI capabilities, $0.8 million in maintenance cost, $0.8 million in reimbursable product cost and $0.3 million in payroll and compensation related to headcount and other expense. 25 Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense decreased by $2.0 million, primarily due to $1.8 million commission expense related to the contract with the NYPD in 2024 without a corresponding similar transaction in 2025 and a decrease of $0.2 million in other sales and marketing expenses. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased by $1.5 million, primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in consulting expense associated with SafePointe, a $0.8 million increase in IT expense related to our investments in enhancing our AI capabilities offset by $0.2 million in other expenses. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased by $0.4 million, primarily due to an increase of $0.6 million in accounting fees related to our efforts to comply with the requirement to include an auditor attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our expectation of becoming an accelerated filer and $0.3 million in other expenses, offset by $0.5 million decrease in legal and IT expense. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration There was no fair value adjustment for contingent consideration liabilities during 2025 resulting in a decrease of $0.6 million compared to 2024. Restructuring Expense There was no restructuring expense during 2025 resulting in a decrease of $0.3 million compared to 2024. Interest Expense, Net The interest expense, net decreased by $0.2 million compared to 2024. Other Income (Expense), Net The other expense, net increased by $0.2 million compared to 2024. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, income taxes provision is less than $0.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Funds Our operations have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity, debt financing arrangements and cash from operating activities. Our principal source of liquidity is cash and cash equivalents totaling $11.8 million and accounts receivable of $28.5 million as of September 30, 2025. On September 30, 2025, the available borrowing capacity under our credit facility was approximately $36.0 million and we had $4.0 million outstanding on our line of credit, which was primarily used to fund our acquisition of SafePointe. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our available borrowings under our credit facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe that despite our negative working capital, the costs to perform the short-term deferred revenue is relatively low compared to the balance of $39.3 million. However, should additional working capital be needed, we can utilize the amount available under our credit facility. We believe that we will meet longer term expected future working capital and capital expenditure requirements through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our available credit facility. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending 26 on sales and marketing, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new product introductions, market acceptance of our products, further investments in our public safety solutions and overall economic conditions. We may also seek additional capital to fund our operations, including through the sale of equity or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the future sale of equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing common stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Additionally, there is no guarantee that debt or equity financing will be available to us on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Use of Funds Our historical uses of cash have primarily consisted of cash used for operating activities, such as expansion of our sales and marketing operations, research and development activities and other working capital needs, and cash used in investing activities, such as property and equipment expenditures to install infrastructure in customer cities in order to deliver our solutions and acquisitions. Our expected material cash requirements are similar to our historical uses of cash. In addition, we expect to need cash to meet our obligations for any contingent earnouts, repurchases under our stock repurchase program and repayment of debt under our credit facility, each as described below. In August 2023, we completed the acquisition of SafePointe for purchase consideration of $25.6 million, consisting of $11.4 million in cash, subject to working capital adjustments, and the issuance of 549,579 shares of our common stock that was valued at $11.2 million at the time of acquisition. We used $7.0 million of our credit facility to complete this acquisition. The purchase consideration also included contingent consideration valued at $3.0 million at the time of acquisition, which is related to a contingent earnout payable of up to $11.5 million based on SafePointes revenues generated through 2025. Any earned amounts will be payable within approximately 120 days after the end of the target year. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we determined the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of SafePointe was not probable of being earned based on estimated SafePointe revenue resulting in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities as of September 30, 2025 and 2024 being nil. Stock Repurchase Program In November 2022, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program (the 2022 Repurchase Program) for up to $25.0 million of our common stock. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or by other methods in accordance with federal securities laws. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will be determined by management in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions and applicable legal requirements. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to purchase any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we repurchased 225,334 shares of our common stock at an average price of $13.15 per share for approximately $3.0 million, under the 2022 Repurchase Program. The repurchases were made in open market transactions using cash on hand, and all of the shares repurchased were retired. As of September 30, 2025, $10.5 million remains available under the 2022 Repurchase Program. Credit Facility We have a revolving credit facility for available borrowings of up to $40.0 million under our Credit Agreement with Umpqua Bank (the Umpqua Credit Agreement). The credit facility matures on October 15, 2027. The revolving credit facility is for general working capital purposes. On September 30, 2025, we had $4.0 million outstanding on our line of credit, with an available borrowing capacity of $36.0 million. The Umpqua Credit Agreement subjects us to certain restrictive and financial covenants, see the risk entitled The incurrence of debt may impact our financial position and subject us to additional financial and operating restrictions in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We are in compliance with all the covenants under the Umpqua Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2025. 27 Cash Flows Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 (in thousands): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 4,810 $ 23,079 Investing activities (3,660 ) (5,067 ) Financing activities (2,547 ) (8,496 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,397 ) $ 9,516 Operating Activities Our net loss and cash flows provided by operating activities are significantly influenced by changes in headcount to support our growth, legal expenses, outside services fees, sales and marketing expenses and our ability to bill and collect in a timely manner. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $18.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2024 resulting from net cash provided by operating activities of $4.8 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $23.1 million during the same period of 2024. This was primarily due to an increase of $8.2 million in account receivables related to slower collection from contracts with the New York Police Department, a decrease of $7.8 million in deferred revenue caused by a reduction in new billings of $7.6 million and a decrease of $3.4 million in personnel-related accrual related to lower accrual of bonus and commission. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist of business acquisition expenditures, capital expenditures to install our solutions in customer coverage areas and purchases of property and equipment. Investing activities used cash of $3.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2025. This was primarily driven by investments of $3.6 million in property and equipment installed for our solutions in customer coverage areas. Investing activities used cash of $5.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This was primarily driven by investments in property and equipment installed for our solutions in customer coverage areas. Financing Activities Financing activities includes net proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset by payments for repurchases of our common stock. Financing activities used cash of $2.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 which was payment of $3.0 million for repurchases of our common stock, offset by proceeds of $0.4 million from our employee stock purchase plan. Financing activities used cash of $8.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2024, and reflect common stock repurchases of approximately $6.0 million and $3.0 million payments on line of credit, offset by proceeds of $0.4 million from our employee stock purchase plan. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues, assets, liabilities, costs and expenses. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. 28 Our critical accounting estimates are described under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 (our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K) and the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing in our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 31, 2025. As of September 30, 2025, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our unaudited condensed, consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 29