ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FIN ANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the financial statements and accompanying notes and other financial information in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 13, 2020. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Exchange Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, those discussed in the subsection titled Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below, as well as the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We provide precision-policing and security solutions for law enforcement and security personnel to help deter gun violence and make cities, campuses and facilities safer. Our flagship public safety solution, ShotSpotter Flex, is the leading outdoor gunshot detection, location and alerting system. Our patrol management software, ShotSpotter Missions (formerly HunchLab), creates crime forecasts designed to enable more precise and effective use of patrol resources to deter crime. In 2019, we created a new technology innovation unit, ShotSpotter Labs, to expand our efforts supporting innovative uses of our technology to help protect wildlife and the environment. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter SecureCampus and ShotSpotter SiteSecure, are designed to help law enforcement and security personnel serving universities, corporate campuses and key infrastructure or transportation centers mitigate risk and enhance security by notifying authorities of a potential outdoor gunfire incident, saving critical minutes for first responders to arrive. Our gunshot detection solutions are trusted by law enforcement agencies in over 100 cities as of March 31, 2020. Our gunshot detection solutions consist of highly-specialized, cloud-based software integrated with proprietary, internet-enabled sensors designed to detect outdoor gunfire. The speed and accuracy of our gunfire alerts enable law enforcement and security personnel to reduce their response times to shooting events, which can increase the chances of apprehending the shooter, providing timely aid to victims, and identifying witnesses before they scatter, as well as aid in evidentiary collection and serve as an overall deterrent. When a potential gunfire incident is detected by our sensors, our software precisely locates where the incident occurred and applies machine classification combined with human review by acoustic experts in our Incident Review Center (IRC), who are on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week, every day of the year, to analyze and validate the incident. Our acoustic experts can supplement alerts with additional tactical information, such as the potential presence of multiple shooters or the use of high-capacity weapons. An alert containing a location on a map and additional tactical information about the incident is sent directly to subscribing law enforcement or security personnel through any internet-connected computer and to iPhone or Android mobile devices. Gunshot incident alerts are typically sent within 45 seconds of the receipt of the gunfire incident. We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter Flex on a per-square-mile basis. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter SecureCampus and ShotSpotter SiteSecure, are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. Our ShotSpotter Missions solution is also sold on a subscription basis. As of March 31, 2020, we had ShotSpotter Flex, ShotSpotter SecureCampus and ShotSpotter SiteSecure coverage areas under contract for approximately 760 square miles, of which 735 square miles had gone live. Coverage areas under contract included 105 cities and 13 campuses/sites across the United States, South Africa and the Bahamas, including three of the ten largest cities in the United States. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, work-from-home and travel ban policies designed to protect the health of employees, and related government-mandated restrictions, our ability to deploy customer solutions since mid-March 2020 has been materially impacted. While this disruption is currently expected to be temporary, there is considerable uncertainty around the magnitude or duration. 16 While we intend to continue to devote resources to increase sales of our ShotSpotter SecureCampus , ShotSpotter SiteSecure , ShotSpotter Labs and ShotSpotter Missions solutions, we expect that revenues from our ShotSpotter Flex solution will continue to comprise a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future . S hotSpotter Labs projects are generally conducted in coordination with a sponsoring charitable organization. These projects may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they will generally be sold on a cost-plus basis. As such, Shot Spotter Labs projects will normally produce gross margins significantly lower than our Flex solutions. Additionally, starting in early 2020, we have added new pricing programs for Tier 4 and 5 law enforcement agencies (those with fewer than 100 sworn offic ers ) that allow them to contract for our gunshot detection solutions to cover a footprint of less than three square miles, using standardized coverage parameters, at a discounted annual subscription rate. We enter into subscription agreements on a term basis that typically range from one to five years in duration, with the majority having a contract term of one year. Substantially all of our sales are to governmental agencies and universities, which often undertake a prolonged contract evaluation process that affects the size or the timing of our sales contracts and may likewise increase our customer acquisition costs. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers to produce components of our solutions. We have no long-term contracts with these manufacturers and purchase from them on a purchase-order basis. Our outsourced manufacturers generally procure the components directly from third-party suppliers. Although we use a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers, we believe that we could find alternate suppliers or manufacturers if circumstances required us to do so, in part because a significant portion of the components required by our solutions is available off the shelf. We generated revenues of $10.5 million and $9.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, a year-over-year increase of 9%. Revenues from ShotSpotter Flex during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, represented approximately 97% and 96% of total revenues, respectively. Our two current largest customers, the City of Chicago and the City of New York, accounted for 19% and 13%, respectively, of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2020, and 21% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, revenues generated within the United States accounted for $10.3 million and $9.0 million, respectively, or 98% and 97%, respectively, of total revenues for the both periods, and $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and was derived from our customers located outside the United States. We had net income of $13,000 and a net loss of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was $95.6 million at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. We have focused on rapidly growing our business and believe that its future growth is dependent on many factors, including our ability to increase our customer base, expand the coverage of our solutions among our existing customers, expand our international presence and increase sales of our security solutions. Our future growth will primarily depend on the market acceptance for outdoor gunshot detection solutions. The challenges we are facing in this regard as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic are summarized in the section below entitled Impact of COVID-19 on our Business. Other challenges we face in this regard include our target customers not having access to adequate funding sources, the fact that contracting with government entities can be complex, expensive, and time-consuming and the fact that our typical sales cycle is often very long, difficult to estimate accurately and can be costly. We expect international sales cycles to be even longer than our domestic sales cycles. To combat these challenges, we invest in research and development, increase awareness of our solutions, invest in new sales and marketing campaigns, often in different languages for international sales, and hire additional sales representatives to drive sales in order to continue to maintain our position as a market leader. In addition, we believe that entering into strategic partnerships with other service providers to cities and municipalities offers another potential avenue for expansion, particularly for our ShotSpotter Flex solution. 17 We will also focus on expanding our business by introducing new products and services to existing customers such as ShotSpotter Missions and gaining new customers for ShotSpotter Labs. We believe that developing and acquiring products for law enforcement in adjacent categories is a path for additional growth given our large and gro wing installed base of police departments who trust ShotSpotters products, support and way of doing business. The ability to cross-sell new products provides an opportunity to grow revenues per customer and lifetime value. Challenges we face in this area include ensuring our new products are reliable, integrated well with other ShotSpotter solutions and priced and serviced appropriately. In some cases, we will need to bring in new skills sets to properly develop, market, sell or service these new products depending on the categories they represent. In October 2018, we acquired the HunchLab technology and related assets that underline our ShotSpotter Missions solution. ShotSpotter Missions applies risk modeling and artificial intelligence to help forecast when and where crimes are likely to emerge and recommends directed patrols that can deter these events. HunchLab technology provides a high-value, and complementary solution we can immediately offer to our existing law enforcement customers. We believe our investment will democratize the sharing of important intelligence with patrol officers who currently have limited direct access to crime analysts. With respect to international sales, we believe that we have the potential to expand our coverage within existing areas, and to pursue opportunities in Latin America and other regions of the world. By adding additional sales resources in strategic locations, we believe we will be better positioned to reach these markets. However, we recognize that we have limited international operational experience and currently operate in a limited number of regions outside of the United States. Operating successfully in international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to additional regulatory, economic and political risks. We may face additional challenges that may delay contract execution related to negotiating with governments in transition, the use of third-party integrations and consultants. Moreover, we anticipate that different political and regulatory considerations that vary across different jurisdictions could extend or make more difficult to predict the length of what is already a lengthy sales cycle. Net New Go-Live Miles Net new go-live square miles represent the square miles covered by deployments of our gunshot detection solutions that were formally approved by customers during the quarter, both from initial and expanded customer deployments, net of square miles that ceased to be live during the quarter due to customer cancellations. New square miles include deployed square miles that may have been sold, or booked, in prior quarters. We focus on net new go-live miles as a key business metric to measure our operational performance and inform strategic decisions. The new go-live miles in the first quarter of 2020 included the completion of our deployment in Puerto Rico, and also are net of four miles lost due to our loss of a customer in Georgia. This metric, presented below for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, is calculated on a quarterly basis using internal data, and may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, policies designed to protect the health of our employees and those of our customers, and related government-mandated restrictions on our business, as well as the businesses of our customers and suppliers, we have been unable to deploy customer solutions since mid-March 2020, resulting in an inability to recognize revenues from new go-live miles from customers under contract. While this disruption is currently expected to be temporary, there is considerable uncertainty around the duration. For a discussion of the risks to our ability to deploy new miles associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, see Impact of COVID-19 on our Business below, as well as in the risk factors described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net new "go-live" square miles added 5 12 18 Impact of COVID-19 on our Business The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a substantial curtailment of business activities worldwide and is causing weakened economic conditions, both in the United States and many countries abroad. As part of intensifying efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, many companies and state, local and foreign governments have imposed restrictions, including shelter-in-place orders and travel bans. These factors have impacted our operations and results of operations for the first quarter of 2020, in particular due to our inability to deploy new go-live miles since mid-March and delays by certain of our customers in renewing contracts. We expect the evolving COVID-19 pandemic to continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations, in particular while our sales force remains restricted from traveling and visiting customers. While the ultimate health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain, we expect that our business and results of operations, including our revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations, will be materially adversely impacted for the second quarter of 2020 and at least the balance of 2020, including as a result of: Further delays in our ability to deploy new go-live miles attributable to company policies designed to protect employee health and government restrictions; Further delays in customer contract renewals or delays in signing new customer contracts; Greater funding challenges for our customer base, which may adversely affect customer contract renewals, expansion of existing customer deployments or new customer sales, and may require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our financial results; and Possible disruption to the supply chain caused by distribution and other logistical issues, which may further delay our ability to deploy new go-live miles; and Potential decrease in productivity of our employees or that of our customers or suppliers due to travel ban, work-from-home or shelter-in-place policies and orders. It is currently not possible to predict the magnitude or duration of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on our business. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to control or accurately predict, including without limitation: the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and actions taken in response; the effect on our customers and demand for our products and services; our ability to continue to sell our products and services, including as a result of travel restrictions and people working from home, or restrictions on access to our potential customers; the ability of our customers to pay for our products and services; and any closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers and suppliers. We plan to make investments in our customer success organization and other functional organizations in 2020 and 2021. Management will consider the timing and size of those investments from a viewpoint of our goal to maintain profitability on full year basis over the course of the remainder of 2020 and 2021, and to keep a strong balance sheet with liquidity in order to be both opportunistic and disciplined from a capital allocation perspective. 19 Components of Results of Operations Presentation of Financial Statements Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Revenues We derive substantially all of our revenues from subscription services. We recognize subscription fees ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the subscription, which for new customers is typically initially one to three years in length. Customer contracts include one-time set-up fees for the set-up of our sensors in the customers coverage areas, training and third-party integration licenses. If the set-up fees are deemed to be a material right, they are recognized ratably over three to five years. Training and third-party integration license fees are recognized upon delivery. For ShotSpotter Flex, we generally invoice customers for 50% of the total contract value when the contract is fully executed and for the remaining 50% when the subscription service is operational and ready to go live that is, when the customer has acknowledged the completion of all the deliverables in the signed customer acceptance form. All fees billed in advance of services being delivered are recorded as deferred revenue. The timing of when new miles go live can be uncertain and, as a result, can have a significant impact on the levels of revenues and deferred revenue from quarter to quarter. For our ShotSpotter Flex solution, our pricing model is based on a per-square-mile basis. For ShotSpotter SecureCampus and ShotSpotter SiteSecure, our pricing model is on a customized-site basis. For our ShotSpotter Missions solution, pricing is currently customized, generally tied to the number of sworn police officers in a particular city. We may also offer discounts or other incentives in conjunction with ShotSpotter Missions sales in an effort to introduce the product and accelerate sales. As a result of our process for invoicing contracts and renewals upon execution, our cash flow from operations and accounts receivable can fluctuate due to timing of contract execution and timing of deployment. We generally invoice subscription service renewals for 100% of the total contract value when the renewal contract is executed. Renewal fees are recognized ratably over the term of the renewal, which is typically one year. While most of our customers elect to renew their agreements, in some cases, they may not be able to obtain the proper approvals or funding to complete the renewal prior to expiration. For these customers, we stop recognizing subscription revenues at the end of the current contract term, even though we may continue to provide services for a period of time until the renewal process is completed. Once the renewal is complete, we then recognize subscription revenues for the period between the expiration of the term of the agreement and the completion of the renewal process in the month in which the renewal is executed. If a customer declines to renew its subscription prior to the end of three years, then the remaining setup fees are immediately recognized. It is likely that international deployments may have different payment and billing terms due to their local laws, restrictions or other customary terms and conditions. ShotSpotter Labs projects may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they will generally be sold on a cost-plus basis. We anticipate that, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, our customers may be facing budget shortfalls due to the increased expenditures our customers have had to endure to address the pandemic, as well as the anticipated significant tax revenue declines resulting from the economic impact that the pandemic has rapidly generated in the first half of 2020, the duration of which is unknown. Costs Costs include the cost of revenues. Cost of revenues primarily includes depreciation expense associated with capitalized customer acoustic sensor networks, communication expenses, costs related to hosting our service applications, costs related to operating our IRC, providing remote and on-site customer support and maintenance and forensic services, providing customer training and onboarding services, certain personnel and related costs of operations, stock-based compensation and allocated overheads, which includes IT, facility and equipment depreciation costs. 20 We will have to upgrade our sensors t hat use third-generation (3G) cellular communications to the fourth-generation Long-Term Evolution wireless technology, which will increase our cost of revenues. Originally, we had expected to start incurring costs in 2021 through 2022 . We have begun pla ns to replace sensors in certain geographic areas starting in mid-2020 . Accelerated bandwidth changes by our carriers may require us to accelerate the upgrade of our 3G sensors prior to 2021, which would accelerate the costs associated with the upgrade, wh ich are estimated to be between $4 .0 million and $6 .0 million in total. We may re-use and re-deploy the old 3G sensors that have a remaining serviceable life where it makes sense to do so. In the near term, we expect our cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as our installed base increases, although certain of our costs of revenues are fixed and do not need to increase commensurate with increases in revenues. In addition, depreciation expense associated with deployed equipment is recognized only over the first five years from the go-live date. We also expect cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success capabilities to drive growth and value for our customers. As we expect to build out these capabilities in 2020, even while our ability to deploy new go-live miles is significantly impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, cost of revenues is expected to increase as a percentage of revenues. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and other personnel costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. We include stock-based compensation expense incurred in connection with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to the applicable operating expense category based on the equity award recipients functional area. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our sales and marketing personnel, commissions earned by our sales personnel, marketing expenses for trade shows, conferences and conventions, consulting fees, travel and facility-related costs and allocated overhead. During the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated shelter-in-place orders, work-from-home policies and travel bans, we expect our sales and marketing expense will decrease. Thereafter, in the near term, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars primarily due to planned growth in our sales and marketing organization. This growth may include adding sales and/or marketing personnel and expanding our marketing activities to continue to generate additional leads. Sales and marketing expense may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of commission expense, marketing campaigns and tradeshows. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our research and development personnel, consulting fees and allocated overhead. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to develop new lower-cost sensor hardware, develop new features, improve functionality of our solutions and adapt to new technologies or changes to existing technologies. We are investing in engineering resources to support further development of ShotSpotter Missions. The focus of this effort will be in the areas of data science modeling, user experience, core application functionality and backend infrastructure improvements, including integration of ShotSpotter gunshot data to enhance forecasting of gun violence. We are also investing research and development resources in conjunction with our ShotSpotter Labs projects and initiatives. The initial focus of these efforts is to develop innovative sensor applications as well as to test and expand the functionality of our outdoor sensors in challenging environmental conditions. In the near term, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our software and invest in the development of our service. We will continue to invest in research and development to leverage our large and growing database of acoustic events, which includes those from both gunfire and non-gunfire. We also intend to leverage third-party AI and our own 21 evolving cognitive and analytical applications to imp rove the efficiency of our solutions, which may include internal software applications, data analysis, event routing and customer outputs. Certain of these applications and outputs may expand the platform of services that we will be able to offer our custo mers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our executive, finance, and administrative personnel, legal, accounting and other professional services fees, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. In the near term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our business. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consisted primarily of interest income and local and franchise tax expenses. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 The following table sets forth our selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, As a % of As a % of Change 2020 Revenues 2019 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 10,458 100 % $ 9,593 100 % $ 865 9 % Costs Cost of revenues 4,342 42 % 4,004 42 % 338 8 % Total costs 4,342 42 % 4,004 42 % 338 8 % Gross profit 6,116 58 % 5,589 58 % 527 9 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 2,516 24 % 2,629 27 % (113 ) (4 )% Research and development 1,352 13 % 1,294 13 % 58 4 % General and administrative 2,271 22 % 1,986 21 % 285 14 % Total operating expenses 6,139 59 % 5,909 62 % 230 4 % Operating loss (23 ) (320 ) (3 %) 297 93 % Other income (expense), net 35 (24 ) 59 246 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1 ) 18 (19 ) (106 %) Net income (loss) $ 13 $ (362 ) (4 %) $ 375 104 % Revenues The increase of $0.9 million was as primarily attributable to new customers and expansions of existing customer coverage areas, offset by the effect of COVID-19 related delays in deploying contracted miles and contract renewals with certain customers. We went live with 75 net new square miles since March 31, 2019. Costs The increase of $0.3 million was due primarily to a $0.3 million increase in personnel and travel expenses due to an increase in overall headcount as well as a reallocation of certain resources as we formalized our customer success 22 organization, partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in third party labor costs. D epreciation expense increased $0.2 million due to 75 net new square miles having gone live since March 31, 2019. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense decreased by $0.1 million because while we have added more personnel and expanded our marketing activities, we have also reallocated certain resources as part of the formalization of our customer success organization beginning in the first quarter of 2020, thus impacting cost of revenues. Sales and marketing activity also slowed in the first quarter of 2020 because of the curtailment of business activities and travel restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic . Research and Development Expense The increase of $58,000 was due primarily to an increase in personnel expenses as we increased headcount and continued to invest in the development of our applications and next-generation sensors. General and Administrative Expense The increase of $0.3 million was due primarily to $0.2 million increase in personnel expenses and a $0.1 million increase in cost of business insurance. Other Income, Net The increase of $59,000 was due primarily to an increase in interest income. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, due to having net operating loss carryforwards, our recorded income taxes consisted of foreign taxes only. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Funds Our operations have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity, debt financing arrangements and cash from operating activities. Our principal source of liquidity is cash and cash equivalents totaling $28.7 million as of March 31, 2020. We also have a $10.0 million credit facility, of which no amounts were outstanding as of March 31, 2020. In March 2019, we issued and sold 250,000 shares of our common stock in an underwritten public offering, for which we received net proceeds of $10.6 million after deducting offering expenses. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our available credit facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on sales and marketing, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new product introductions, market acceptance of our products and overall economic conditions. We may also seek additional capital to fund our operations, including through the sale of equity or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the future sale of equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing common stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. 23 Use of Funds Our historical uses of cash have primarily consisted of cash used for operating activities, such as expansion of our sales and marketing operations, research and development activities and other working capital needs, and cash used in investing activities, such as property and equipment expenditures to install infrastructure in customer cities in order to deliver our solutions. Stock Repurchase Program In May 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase program for up to $15 million of our common stock. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or by other methods in accordance with federal securities laws. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will be determined by management in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions and applicable legal requirements. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to purchase any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased 257,824 shares of our common stock at an average price of $26 per share for $6.7 million. The repurchases were made in open market transactions using cash on hand, and all of the shares repurchased were retired. We did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2020. Cash Flows Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019: March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 5,726 $ 8,905 Investing activities (1,141 ) (930 ) Financing activities (289 ) 11,339 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 4,296 $ 19,314 Operating Activities For standard customer deployments, we typically achieve cash flow breakeven, on a direct variable cost-basis, in less than a year from the date of execution of the contract. Our net income (loss) and cash flows provided by operating activities are significantly influenced by our ability to recognize deferred revenue by deploying new go-live miles, our ability to bill and collect in a timely manner, and our planned increases in headcount and operating expenses to support our growth. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $3.2 million from the three months ended March 31, 2019 to the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in cash collected from customers, driven by the timing of executing contracts and renewals, which impacted the timing of billings and collections. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures to install our solutions in customer coverage areas, purchases of property and equipment, and investment in intangible assets. Investing activities used $1.1 million and $0.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily for property and equipment installed for our solutions in customer coverage areas. 24 Financing Activities Cash generated by financing activities includes proceeds from our follow-on offering in 2019, net proceeds from the exercise of stock options and warrants, proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan, offset by payment for repurchases of our common stock, payment of indebtedness, and debt issuance and financing costs. Financing activities used $0.3 million for the payment of contingent consideration liability to Azavea, Inc. during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Financing activities provided $11.3 million in cash during the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $11.1 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in a public offering and $0.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2020 to the contractual obligations and commitments disclosed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 11, Leases , Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies , and Note 13, Subsequent Event, to the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2020, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues, assets, liabilities, costs and expenses. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. For the significant or material changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2020, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the notes of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements.