Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can identify some of these forward-looking statements by words or phrases such as may, will, expect, anticipate, aim, estimate, intend, plan, believe, is/are likely to, potential, continue or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our expected financial performance, our ability to implement our business strategy and anticipated business and operations, including our ability to integrate the business and operations of our recent acquisitions and improve our Generative AI Foundation Model, expand our customer partnerships and roll out our AI drive thru service, roll out our Dynamic Interaction, Chat AI for Automotive, and expand the number of platforms on which our voice AI technology will be available, the potential utility of and market for our products and services, including our newly acquired products and services, and our ability to achieve revenue from our bookings backlog. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. Although we believe that our expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, our expectations may later be found to be incorrect. Our actual results of operations or the results of other matters that we anticipate herein could be materially different from our expectations. Accordingly, readers are cautioned that significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: our ability to execute our business strategy, including launching new product offerings and expanding information and technology capabilities; our market opportunity and our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers; the timing and impact of our growth initiatives on our future financial performance; our ability to integrate the businesses and operations from our recent acquisitions with our current operations to realize the expected benefits of those acquisitions; our ability to protect intellectual property and trade secrets; our ability to obtain additional capital, as necessary, including equity or debt financing, on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all; changes in applicable laws or regulations and extensive and evolving government regulations that impact our operations and business; our ability to attract or maintain a qualified workforce; level of product service failures that could lead our customers to use competitors services; investigations, claims, disputes, enforcement actions, litigation and/or other regulatory or legal proceedings, including with respect to our AI technology; risks relating to uncertainty of our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth; the possibility that we may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties described under the section titled Risk Factors in this Annual Report. You should thoroughly read this Annual Report and the documents that we refer to with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from, and worse than, what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report relate only to events or information as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward- i Table of Contents looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date on which the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should read this Annual Report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. ii Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business Our Mission SoundHounds mission is to voice-enable the world with conversational intelligence through an independent AI platform enabling humans to interact with products and services like they interact with each other by speaking naturally. Company Overview We are a global leader in conversational intelligence, offering independent Voice AI solutions that enable businesses to deliver high-quality conversational experiences to their customers. Built on proprietary technology, SoundHounds voice AI delivers best-in-class speed and accuracy in numerous languages to product creators across automotive, TV, and IoT, and to customer service industries via groundbreaking AI-driven products like Smart Answering, Smart Ordering, and Dynamic Interaction, and Employee Assist. Along with SoundHound Chat AI, a powerful voice assistant with integrated Generative AI, SoundHound powers millions of products and services, and processes billions of interactions each year for world class businesses. We believe voice-enabled conversational user interface is a more natural interface for nearly all use cases, and product creators should have the ability to design, customize, differentiate, innovate and monetize the interface to their own product, as opposed to outsourcing it to a third-party assistant. For example, using SoundHound, businesses can voice-enable their products so consumers can say things like, Turn off the air conditioning and lower the windows, while in their cars, Find romantic comedies released in the last year, while streaming on their TV and even place food orders before arriving at a restaurant by talking to their cars, TVs or other IoT devices. Additionally, SoundHounds technology can address complex user queries such as, Show me all restaurants within half a mile of the Space Needle that are open past 9pm on Wednesdays and have outdoor seating, and follow-on qualifications such as Okay, dont show me anything with less than 3 stars or fast food. The SoundHound developer platform, Houndify, is an open-access platform that allows developers to leverage SoundHounds Voice AI technology and a library of over 100 content domains, including commonly used domains for points of interest, weather, flight status, sports and more. SoundHound's Collective AI is an architecture for connecting domain knowledge that encourages collaboration and contribution among developers. The architecture is based on proprietary software engineering technology, CaiLAN (Conversational AI Language), and machine learning technology, CaiNET (Conversational AI Network) to ensure fast, accurate and appropriate responses. Our market position is strengthened by the technical barriers to entry in the Voice AI space, which tend to discourage new market participants. Furthermore, our technology is backed by significant investments in intellectual property, with over 192 patents granted and over 109 patents pending, spanning multiple fields including speech recognition, natural language understanding, machine learning, monetization and more. We have achieved this critical momentum in part thanks to a long-tenured leadership team with deep expertise and proven ability to attract and retain talent. Market Opportunity A significant addressable market To take advantage of opportunities created by the expansion of Voice AI, companies across industries are turning to independent providers with disruptive technology offerings to help them design and build custom voice assistants. The demand for Voice AI technology is growing exponentially as companies compete to lead the market with the best technology, excellent customer relationships, and greatest innovations. Custom, branded voice assistants are allowing companies to improve their customer interactions at every touchpoint. Strategy We believe that Voice AI will be the next major technology disruption in computing. Human-computer interfaces became popularized through computers offering a keyboard and mouse. After that came mobile devices with touch screens. We now have IoT devices with Voice AI. After the internet became mainstream, every 1 Table of Contents company needed to have a website. After the mobile ecosystem became mature, every company needed to have a mobile strategy. We note that some very successful companies were created purely on the mobile ecosystem. We believe the same concept will apply to the world of Voice AI where every company will need to have a strategy and there will exist success stories built on top of platforms like ours. These interfaces will co-exist: for example, mobile and touch screens did not completely replace computers with a keyboard and mouse, therefore Voice AI will also co-exist with computers and mobile. However, with billions of IoT devices that dont have a keyboard or a mouse or a touch screen, we believe that voice will be the preferred or the only way to interact with these devices. Technical Development In 2005, as recent graduates from Stanford, our founders began envisioning a future where we would be talking to products just as we do other people. Inspired to make their vision a reality, the Company was founded with a simple and powerful mission: Add Voice AI to everything. To this day, the Company is still run by its original founding team. SoundHounds technology represents the evolution of several disruptive breakthroughs in voice-AI and sound recognition developed over almost two decades. Using innovative audio and music identification technology, in 2009, our founders launched the SoundHound music identification app. Since its inception, the app has received over 300 million downloads. In parallel, the founding team worked in stealth on a fundamentally new technology one that had the potential to revolutionize human-to-computer voice interaction. Up until then, all voice interactions relied on speech-to-text and then text-to-meaning. Our engineers knew that for a true voice engine to flourish, it needed to understand speech directly, just like humans do. In 2015, SoundHound introduced the Houndify Voice AI platform incorporating breakthrough Speech-to-Meaning and Deep Meaning Understanding technologies, which, to SoundHounds knowledge represented voice interaction technologies not yet broadly available at the time as its foundation. After we went public in 2022, SoundHound rapidly introduced innovation to the market with Smart Ordering, Dynamic InteractionTM, SoundHound Chat AI, and Smart Answering, among other products (see "Products and Technology" hereafter). SoundHounds Vision A typical reaction to SoundHounds technology is Wow! Even humans cannot do this. This is the crux of our vision: Create a Voice AI platform that exceeds human capabilities and brings value and delight via an ecosystem of billions of products enhanced by innovation and monetization opportunities. Computers are better than humans at computing, but theyre not always better than humans at performing certain tasks. For example, we used to easily beat computers in the game of chess, but now computers can even top grandmasters. When it comes to language understanding, the general perception is computers are not yet as good as humans. People talk using complex conversations with each other, but when they talk to voice assistants, they lower their expectations and use short, simple, keyword-based queries. We aim to change that by making computers better than humans in language understanding. As a result, SoundHound can make humans more productive and help make the world a better place. To provide another example, if a user is looking for a restaurant, but anything other than Chinese (because they had Chinese food yesterday) they can ask the concierge of a hotel: Show me restaurants, excluding Chinese, and the concierge can point the customer in the right direction. But when talking to a typical voice assistant, users often dont ask the question: show me restaurants, excluding Chinese, because they dont expect that it will work. And in fact, most other voice assistants will offer Chinese restaurants when asked to show restaurants excluding Chinese. With SoundHounds technology, users can ask even more complicated questions, such as: show me Asian restaurants in San Francisco, excluding Chinese and Japanese, and only show the ones that have more than three stars and are open after 9:00 PM on Wednesdays. In addition, users can follow up and ask it to refine the criteria such as remove Korean and Vietnamese, sort by rating then by price, and only show the ones that are good for kids and have a patio. Additionally, through SoundHound's AI-driven restaurant voice ordering solution, Smart Ordering, automated voice technology can be deployed by any restaurant to take food and drink orders over the phone, via menu kiosks or at the drive- 2 Table of Contents thru. Its sophisticated technology learns the menu of each business and can answer questions, accept modifications and even upsell, helping the restaurant process more orders quickly and efficiently. Our vision further includes empowering billions of devices around the world using our technology, with innovation and monetization opportunities for the product creators that integrate to our platform. It means product creators can not only use Voice AI to make their product better; they can also generate incremental recurring revenues from customer interactions. Our vision also places a high emphasis on user experience. Before monetization growth can occur, delivering value and delight to end users is paramount. As a result, the most effective monetizable interactions will be those that flow naturally based on context, create value for the end-user, and would not be perceived by users as intrusive advertisements. Products and Technology SoundHounds momentum in the Voice AI market can, in large part, be attributed to our large number of technology breakthroughs. Houndify Platform SoundHounds Voice AI platform combines advanced AI with engineering expertise to help brands build conversational voice assistants. From proprietary components to customizable and scalable solutions, we offer tools to build a highly accurate and responsive voice user interface. The suite of Houndify tools includes Application Programming Interfaces (API) for text and voice queries, support for custom commands, extensive library of content domains, inclusive Software Development Kit platforms, collaboration capabilities, diagnostic tools, and built-in analytics. Houndify provides a web API that takes in text queries or audio and returns actionable JavaScript Object Notation to anyone with an internet connection wanting to add Voice AI to any product or application. CaiNET and CaiLAN Expert Domain Selections SoundHounds CaiNET software uses machine learning to enhance how domains work together to better handle complex queries including natural language processing, predictive analytics, and building language models, or translation of speech. SoundHounds proprietary CaiLAN software expertly arbitrates responses so users get better answers from the right domain such as for use with natural language processing, predictive analytics, and building language models, or translation of speech. Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) Our highly optimized, tunable, and scalable ASR engine supports vocabulary sizes containing millions of words. Houndifys machine learning infrastructure allows us to tune the engine to achieve optimal Computer Processing Unit (CPU) performance while delivering high accuracy rates. Houndifys language and acoustic modelling architecture also uses machine learning to increase word recognition accuracy. Rapid iteration is possible due to our accelerated training pipeline and architecture that improves as data is collected. Highly accurate transcriptions result from advanced acoustic models trained to perform in a variety of scenarios including in severely noisy environments and when accented language is spoken. Natural Language Understanding (NLU) Our proprietary Speech-to-Meaning technology tracks speech in real-time and understands the context, even before the user has finished speaking. Instead of the typical two-step process of transcribing speech into text and then passing the text into an NLU model, Houndify can accomplish both of these tasks in one step, delivering faster and more accurate results. 3 Table of Contents Houndifys ability to process and understand speech the instant a user stops speaking gives voice assistants the ability to respond faster. Understanding speech in real-time without requiring additional processing or waiting for the user to finish speaking creates responsive and natural conversations between people and products. By understanding context, Houndify responds accurately to users by distinguishing between similar words and names. Our NLU can discern the difference between words that sound the same, but have different spellings and meanings. For example, if users want to navigate to 272 Hoch Street in Dayton, Ohio, it wont look for Hawk Street. Using our proprietary Deep Meaning Understanding technology, a custom voice assistant can handle complex queries with compound criteria including conversational follow up, address multiple questions and filter results simultaneously accurately and quickly answering users most complex questions. These technologies are anchored by three important innovations: Speech-to-Meaning, Deep Meaning Understanding and Collective AI. Speech-to-Meaning refers to SoundHounds ability to convert speech to meaning simultaneously and in real time. Most traditional approaches first convert speech to text, and then convert text to meaning. This approach can be both slower and less accurate. Its slower because the two steps are done in sequence, and the additional processing time of the second step can be noticeable by the end user. It can also be less accurate because if the first step of speech to text makes a mistake, the resulting incorrect text is then sent to the second step, and the error further propagates. Our development of Speech to Meaning technology was inspired by the human brain. As we listen to someone speaking, our brain does not convert speech to text, and then text to meaning. Instead, our brain converts speech to meaning simultaneously and in real time. With Speech-to-Meaning, as you speak to SoundHounds technology, it performs both speech recognition and language understanding simultaneously, which results in faster response time and higher accuracy, because real-time language understanding can feed into the real-time speech recognizer as additional information to reduce errors. Deep Meaning Understanding is our innovative approach to language understanding that allows our Voice AI platform to understand highly complex conversation. For example it can understand: Show me hotels in San Francisco that are less than $600, but not less than $300, are pet friendly, have a gym and a pool with at least three stars staying for two nights, and dont include anything that doesnt have Wi-Fi. A complex search like this will take many minutes to perform on a website with complex forms, but it can be done within a few seconds using SoundHound technology, which we believe to be unique in its ability to handle complex queries of this nature at scale. Collective AI is an architecture that gives potential to SoundHound to improve the understanding capability of its platform exponentially based on linear contributions. Most other platforms add skills or domains that are separate and dont interact with each other. For them, linear contribution results in linear growth in understanding, which is less scalable. With the Collective AI architecture, SoundHound domains can be interconnected and learn from each other. As developers contribute to the platform, the platforms understanding capability can grow exponentially. Smart Ordering SoundHound Smart Ordering offers an easy-to-understand voice assistant for restaurants that takes phone orders and automatically processes them by seamlessly integrating with multiple POS systems. For enterprises, we also offer a flexible Gateway to integrate with custom POSs. Dynamic Interaction Dynamic Interaction is a category-level breakthrough in conversational AI that we believe raises the bar for human-computer interaction by not only recognizing and understanding speech, but also responding and acting in real-time. Where existing voice technology requires wake words and relies on turn-taking with awkward pauses to process requests, 4 Table of Contents Dynamic Interaction uses the twin technologies of fragment parsing which breaks speech down to partial-utterances and processes them in real-time and full-duplex audio-visual integration to create an instantaneous, next-generation experience in human-computer interaction. SoundHound Chat AI We launched SoundHound Chat AI, which we believe will usher in a new phase of voice-enabled, conversational AI by combining the power of software engineering and machine learning generative AI. SoundHound Chat AI integrates with dozens of knowledge domains, pulling real-time data like weather, sports, stocks, flight status, restaurants, and many more. We combine this with the most cutting-edge large language models like OpenAIs ChatGPT to deliver the most accurate, timely, and comprehensive responses. There is no need for awkward search queries since you can speak to SoundHound Chat AI naturally, like another person. You can also follow-up questions and commands without awkward pauses to filter, sort, or add more information to the original request. Smart Answering SoundHound Smart Answering is built to offer all customer establishments, including restaurants, the option to build an easy to use, custom AI-powered voice assistant that can handle 100% of phone calls including, greetings, hours, menu, location, delivery, wait time, policies, promotions, including SMS functionality for reservations and appointments, and many more standard and custom options. Wake Words Wake words are the entry point into branded voice experiences, allowing users to invoke the assistant by literally speaking the companys name. Examples range from Hey Pandora in a mobile app to Hey Peugeot within a vehicle. Rigorous development and testing enable our wake words to perform in noisy environments and minimize false-positives or false-negatives. We use advanced machine learning algorithms and Deep Neural Networks to provide broad robustness to our high-volume training data, resulting in high accuracy. Custom Domains Our library of over 100 public domains is available to give developers instant access to a broad range of content to fit their unique use cases. This includes multi-category content intended to appeal to broad range of audiences, including, for instance, sports scores, weather, podcasts, travel information, recipes, stock prices, among many others. Companies can enhance product functionality or proprietary operations with Houndify Private Domains, allowing customization and development of more specific content. Customers who subscribe for this service have full access to their private domains securely on our platform while retaining the ability to iterate and update content. For example, an automotive manufacturer can make helpful updates about the cars user manual over time. In this way, SoundHound becomes a long-term partner to its customers, helping companies create the domains that they need in order to improve brand value for their own customers or end users. Text-to-speech (TTS) A high quality TTS helps companies create a unique voice that differentiates them from the competition. Brands can fully express their personality by choosing the gender, tone, and personality that will become their vocal identity. Our machine learning algorithms transform recorded voices into large databases of spoken sounds to form entire vocabularies of natural language adapted to the users environment. We can transform any voice to generate a high-quality TTS with a small CPU footprint. Edge and Cloud Connectivity 5 Table of Contents With edge (embedded) we offer a fully-embedded voice solution for brands seeking the convenience of a voice user interface without the privacy or connectivity concerns of the internet. Includes full access to custom commands and the ability to instantly update commands during development. With Cloud we equip your voice assistant with real-time data from the cloud, deliver the most relevant responses with no CPU or memory restrictions, and retain ownership of customer relationships with access to data and analytics. To harness the capabilities of full cloud connectivity with the reliability of embedded edge voice technology. Houndify Edge Hybrid solutions are designed to ensure that devices are always-on and responsive to commands. Allows for over-the-air product updates and a broader voice experience with the level of cloud-connectivity that best matches the product and its users. Competitive Strengths and Differentiators The majority of participants in the Voice AI industry can be characterized as either big tech companies (meaning large corporations offering Voice AI as an extension of other services) and legacy vendors (meaning long-time Voice-AI industry participants with older technologies). Voice AI offerings from big tech companies are primarily an extension of their services. In many cases, rather than strengthening or interacting with the host product, big tech offerings tend to take over the entire product experience, thus hijacking the companys brand, users, and data. As a result, brands relying on big tech Voice AI frequently experience decreased ability to innovate, differentiate, and customize the way that their products interact with Voice AI platforms and/or end users. In some cases, these big tech Voice AI providers even compete with the customers whose products their technologies support, making them increasingly less attractive as a choice for a voice interface. The Voice AI market currently also includes legacy vendors, a number of whom we believe offer dated technologies. Furthermore, in many cases, legacy vendor technologies still require significant effort by product creators to turn legacy AI product offerings into solutions that can compete with the quality of Voice AI products currently offered by big tech companies, which is oftentimes neither economical nor practical. Due to the high barrier to entry in Voice AI, the number of full solution platform providers is very limited. In our view, it takes many years and significant investment to build all the components of Voice AI. It then takes further time and resources to make the solutions competitive, mature, and viable for adoption. Finally, it requires significant investment to globalize the solution in multiple languages and regions. Although the number of platforms is limited, we note that the big tech players have significant resources. Against this landscape, SoundHound has achieved its successes to date through technology innovation, business model innovation, and global alliances that we believe make us well-positioned to continue to grow and execute our business plan. With the recent popularization of Generative AI and Large Language Models in early 2023, we view this as an inflection point for Conversational AI, with a clear intersection between technology readiness and subsequent demand and adoption. Such intersections are rare, and SoundHound is in a unique position to create tremendous value. We believe the impact of Generative AI and Large Language Models to the field of Conversational AI is similar to the impact of Deep Neural Networks to Machine Learning: Better quality models can be created faster and with fewer tedious engineering requirements. And we view the market impact of this to be transformative, similar to the mobile ecosystem disruption of the last decade. Fast movers like us will create tremendous value. We view the current environment as an opportunity to provide disruptive technologies with capabilities we believe are superior to existing alternatives, allowing customers to maintain their brand, control the user experience, get access to the data, and define their own privacy policies, while being able to customize, differentiate, innovate, and monetize. Revenue Model Market Momentum Our entry into the Voice AI space began with 10 years of constant innovation in stealth building disruptive technologies in Voice AI using innovative approaches. Our goal was to build a differentiated Voice AI technology that we 6 Table of Contents fully own and which is significantly better than other solutions in the market. We achieved that goal and unveiled the result in 2015, launching it as the Houndify platform in 2016. Building a Diverse, Global Customer Base SoundHound continues to expand the capabilities that make us well-positioned to serve the needs of customers globally. We have grown our solution from a single language capability to 25 languages. Our customers include a range of product and service providers of all sizes, spanning a range of industries, including automotive, IoT, apps, restaurants, and more. Many of our global customers have end users in multiple regions and industries and we have seen our products successfully used by them across multiple contexts and purposes. Three pillars for growth We have identified three pillars for revenue growth: Royalties, Subscription, and Monetization, and all three pillars contribute to our current revenues today. While the majority of current revenues come from royalties and subscriptions, over time we expect our revenues from monetization pillars to increase meaningfully in the future. (1)Royalties: This involves voice-enabling a product. The product creator pays us a royalty based on volume, usage, or duration. SoundHound collects royalties when our platform is integrated into a product such as a car, smart TV, or IoT. (2)Subscription: This involves voice-enabling a service that doesnt rely on a physical product. Examples include when SoundHound enables customer service or food ordering for restaurants or content management, appointments, or voice commerce, we generate subscription revenue from the service providers. (3)Monetization: This pillar creates an ecosystem that enables monetization services in products and services from both pillar one and pillar two. When users of a voice-enabled product access the voice-enabled monetization, this creates new leads and transactions. SoundHound generates monetization revenue for generating these leads and transactions, and will share revenue with the product creators. We expect the disruptive three-pillar business model will create a monetization flywheel. As more products integrate into our platform, more users will use it, and more services will choose to integrate as well. This creates even more usage, and results in a flow of revenue share to product creators, which further encourages even greater adoption and integration with our platform, and we expect the cycle will perpetually continue to expand and create an ecosystem with a compound impact on our business. SoundHounds criteria for adoption When it comes to criteria for adoption, our goal is to win on every dimension. We believe our product will be adopted because customers typically choose the best technology and want to own their brand and control their data. We strive to provide our customers with the best technology, and we can provide a white label solution giving our customers control of their brands. In some industries you may have to choose between technology and brand control. In our case, we aim to offer our customers the best of both, enabling them to offer disruptive technologies to their users while maintaining control of their brand and user experience. With our disruptive monetization strategy, we also provide a path to monetization. By choosing our platform, product creators can generate additional revenue while making their product better using Voice AI, providing further incentive to choose our platform. We offer an ecosystem with our expert domain selections that seamlessly arbitrates between LLMs and real time domains and limits "AI hallucinations", along with definable privacy controls, which are becoming increasingly important in the industry of Voice AI. We also offer edge, cloud and hybrid solutions, which means our technology can optionally run without a cloud connection for increased flexibility and privacy. Our focus is on delivering the most advanced Voice AI in the world and thus allowing our partners to differentiate and innovate their overall experiences for their brands. Additionally, there is no conflict of interest between us and our partners and customers as we do not compete with them (as some other Voice AI vendors do). 7 Table of Contents We believe that product creators know their product and users best. The idea of a single third-party assistant taking over their product is not reflective of our anticipated future. We envision that every product will have its own identity, and they will have Voice AI customized in different ways. They can each tap into a single platform to access the ever-growing set of domains, but the product creators can innovate on top of platform and create value for the end users in their own way. Research and Development Research and development have been the foundation of our company since its origin. We have invested significantly over the years in making conversational Voice AI technology by leveraging advanced technologies across signal processing, speech recognition, machine learning and more. The complexities of our design and the associated technological breakthroughs have required more than ten years of research and development activities to fine tune our technology for commercial use. We continue to explore different innovation strategies to strengthen our capabilities. In particular, we are continually working to improve the speed and accuracy of our Voice AI solutions and make customer adoption easier and faster. We have protected our innovations throughout with patents and trade secrets, and we have continued to strengthen our competitive positioning by staying on top of the latest advancements in the Voice AI industry. We expect to continue to keep research and development and, more broadly, innovation and product quality at the forefront of our strategy and core focus. Sales and Marketing We take an insight-driven, account-based marketing approach to build and expand our relationships with customers and partners. We collect feedback directly from them to garner insights that help drive the business and product. We also work with analysts and higher education institutions to conduct studies, test and validate technology performance, providing key proof points for those considering our products. In parallel, marketing and communications drive our brand equity and narrative through ongoing announcements, campaigns, events, speaking opportunities, and public relations efforts. Our demand generation efforts span the full customer funnel to target prospects across a variety of channels including: advertising, email, social media, search engines and many other digital channels. Sales and marketing will play a critical role in the next phase of our evolution as a company, with key ongoing investments in our team and leadership. While our products are already scaling with existing customers, markets and verticals, we see significant opportunities to grow into new ones. Increased sales and marketing efforts will enable us to capitalize on the tremendous momentum we are building and we expect to continue expanding resources to grow our personnel and leadership team focused on sales and marketing. Intellectual Property SoundHounds intellectual property portfolio includes over 192 patents granted and over 109 patents pending worldwide. These patents cover areas such as speech recognition, natural language understanding, machine learning, human interfaces, and others, including monetization and advertising. Out of our 301 patents granted and pending, more than 40 of these patents are in conversational monetization. Because we predict that search traffic will change from keyword-based queries to conversational interactions, we have a large number of patents in the area of conversational advertising. Human Capital At SoundHound, our success is driven by the quality of our people, who we believe are among the best and brightest in the industry. We strive to create an environment that supports employee success and a culture where everyone has a voice in driving innovation. 8 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 842 full-time employees, of which approximately 54% were in the United States and 46% were in our international locations. We have not experienced work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Employee Experience We focus on delivering a great employee experience, anchored by meaningful work, career opportunities and well-being, to continue to attract and retain high quality talent. We support employee well-being from multiple dimensions, including economic, health, development, and lifestyle with a comprehensive suite of compensation, benefits and flexible work options. For the vast majority of SoundHounds employees, productivity is not tied to being in an office and collaboration can happen between people anywhere. SoundHounds modern approach to work gives our employees more flexibility to choose where and how to work. Depending on their role, many of our employees can choose their office location, as well as work from home some or all of the time. We believe this allows us to engage with a wider pool of talent and retain employees who want or need more flexibility. Government Regulations We are subject to various laws, regulations, and permitting requirements of federal, state, and local authorities, related to health and safety, consumer privacy, anti-corruption, export controls and AI-related regulations. The foregoing may include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 and any other equivalent or comparable laws of other countries. We believe that we are in material compliance with all such laws, regulations, and permitting requirements. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may become involved in actions, claims, suits and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including assertions by third parties relating to personal injuries sustained using our products and services, intellectual property infringement, breaches of contract or warranties or employment-related matters. We are not currently a party to any actions, claims, suits or other legal proceedings the outcome of which, if determined adversely to us, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Available Information Our website is located at www.soundhound.com, and our investor relations website is located at investors.soundhound.com. Access to copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to these reports, is available via a link through our investor relations website, free of charge, after we file or furnish them with the SEC and they are available on the SEC's website. We also utilize our investor relations website to webcast our earnings calls and provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our business updates, financial performance and other items that may be material or of interest to our investors, including SEC filings, investor events, press releases and earnings releases. Further, corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of ethics, is also available on our investor relations website. The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report, including our financial statements, the notes thereto and the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects, as well as our ability to accomplish our strategic objectives. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your 9 Table of Contents investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations and the market price of our securities. Summary The risk factors described below are a summary of the principal risk factors associated with an investment in us. These are not the only risks we face. You should carefully consider these risk factors and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC. Risks Related to our Business and Financial Condition We have generated substantial net losses and negative operating cash flows since inception and may never achieve or maintain profitability or generate positive cash flows; We may require additional capital to continue planned business operations but may not be able to obtain such capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders; Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if it loses any of its largest customers due to concentration risk; The market in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully; Adverse conditions in the Voice AI market or the global economy more generally could have adverse effects on our results of operations; We depend on skilled employees and the loss of one or more key members of our management team or personnel, or our failure to attract, integrate and retain additional personnel in the future, could harm our business and negatively affect our ability to successfully grow our business; Cybersecurity and data privacy incidents or breaches may damage client relations and adversely affect our operations; Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations, including data protection and anticorruption; Interruptions or delays in our services or services from data center hosting facilities or public clouds could impair the delivery of services and harm our business; We rely on third-party telecommunications and internet service providers, including connectivity to our cloud software, and any failure by these service providers to provide reliable services could cause us to lose customers and subject us to claims for credits or damages, among other things; Our customers rely on third-party telecommunications and internet service providers to provide them with access and connectivity to our cloud software, and changes in how telecommunication and internet service providers handle and charge for access to telecommunications and the internet could materially harm our customer relationships, business, financial condition and operations results; If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand or reputation as an industry leader, our operating results may be adversely affected; Our acquisition of SYNQ3, Amelia and any potential future acquisitions or strategic transactions may not be accretive and may subject us to various risks that could adversely affect our business and for which we may not achieve the anticipated benefit of such a transaction; We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future, which may result in material misstatements of our consolidated 10 Table of Contents financial statements or cause us to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Technology Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our software; Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products or making our technologies available to our customers if such claims are successful; Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations; Risks Related to our Securities and our Dual Class Common Stock Structure Our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate significantly; The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert managements attention, and the increases in legal, accounting and compliance expenses may be greater than we anticipate; We have a dual class common stock structure that has the effect of concentrating voting control with the holders of our Class B Common Stock. Our Class B Common Stock has multiple votes per share and this ownership will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters, including the election of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transactions requiring stockholder approval, and that may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common stock; and Risks Related to U.S. and International Taxation Our ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Risks Related to SoundHounds Business and Financial Condition Our use and provision of AI-powered solutions could lead to operational or reputational damage, competitive harm, legal and regulatory risk and additional costs. Use and provision of AI, including generative AI, is a core part of our business. The use of generative AI, a relatively new and emerging technology in the early stages of commercial use, exposes us to additional risks, such as damage to our reputation, competitive position and business, legal and regulatory risks and additional costs. For example, generative AI has been known to produce false or hallucinatory inferences or output, and certain generative AI uses machine learning and predictive analytics, which can create inaccurate, incomplete or misleading output, unintended biases and other discriminatory or unexpected results, errors or inadequacies, any of which may not be easily detectable. Accordingly, while AI-powered applications may help provide more tailored or personalized user experiences, if the content, analyses or recommendations that AI-powered solutions assist in producing on our products and services are, or are perceived to be, deficient, inaccurate, biased, unethical or otherwise flawed, our reputation, competitive position and business may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if any of our employees, contractors, vendors or service providers use any third-party AI-powered software in connection with our business or the services they provide to us, it may lead to the inadvertent disclosure of our confidential information, including inadvertent disclosure of our confidential information into publicly available third-party training sets, which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of, or adequately maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property or confidential information, harming our competitive position and business. Our ability to mitigate risks associated with disclosure of our confidential information, including in connection with AI-powered software, will depend on our implementation, maintenance, monitoring and enforcement of appropriate technical and administrative safeguards, policies and procedures governing the use of AI in our business. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, any content created by us using generative AI tools may not be subject to copyright protection which may adversely affect our intellectual property rights in, or ability to commercialize or use, any such content. In the United States, a number of civil lawsuits have been initiated related to the foregoing and other concerns, the outcome of any one of which may, amongst other things, require us to limit the ways in which we use AI in our business and may affect our ability to develop our AI-powered platform innovations and features. For example, the output produced by generative AI tools may include information subject to certain rights of publicity or privacy laws or constitute an unauthorized derivative work of the copyrighted material used in training the underlying AI model, any of which could also create a risk of liability for us, or adversely affect our business or operations. In addition, the use of AI has resulted in, and may in the future result in, cybersecurity breaches or incidents that implicate the personal data of users of AI-powered applications. To the extent that we do not have sufficient rights to use the data or other material or content used in or produced by the generative AI tools used in our business, or if we experience cybersecurity breaches or incidents in connection with our use of AI, it could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to legal liability or regulatory risk, including with respect to third-party intellectual property, privacy, publicity, contractual or other rights. Further, our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. As the utilization of AI becomes more prevalent, we anticipate that it will continue to present new or unanticipated ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, competitive and regulatory issues, among others. We expect that such utilization of AI will require additional resources, including the incurrence of additional costs, to develop and maintain our platform offerings, services and features to minimize potentially harmful or unintended consequences, to comply with applicable and emerging laws and regulations, to maintain or extend our competitive position and to address any ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, competitive or regulatory issues which may arise as a result of any of the foregoing. As a result, the challenges presented with our use of AI could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory and legislative developments related to the use of AI could adversely affect our use and provision of AI-powered solutions in our products, services and business. As the regulatory framework for machine learning technology, generative AI and automated decision making evolves, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework for AI and similar technologies, and automated decision making, is changing rapidly. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and in non-U.S. jurisdictions, or that existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in ways that would affect our use and provision of AI-powered solutions in our products, services and business. We may not be able to adequately anticipate or respond to these evolving laws and regulations, and we may need to expend additional resources to adjust our offerings in certain jurisdictions if applicable legal frameworks are inconsistent across jurisdictions. In addition, because these technologies are themselves highly complex and rapidly developing, it is not possible to predict all of the legal or regulatory risks that may arise relating to our use of such technologies. Further, the cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in Europe, the European Parliament formally enacted the European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act (the AI Act). The AI Act establishes, among other things, a risk-based governance framework for regulating AI systems operating in the European Union. This framework seeks to categorize AI systems, based on the risks associated with such AI systems intended purposes, as creating unacceptable or high risks, with all other AI systems being considered low risk. While the AI Act has only recently been enacted, there is a risk that our current or future AI-powered software or applications may obligate us to comply with the applicable requirements of the AI Act, which may impose additional costs on us, increase our risk of liability or adversely affect our business. For example, the AI Act would prohibit certain uses of AI systems and place numerous obligations on providers and deployers of permitted AI systems, with heightened requirements based on AI systems that are considered high risk. If enacted in this form or a similar form, this regulatory framework is expected to have a material impact on the way AI is regulated in the European Union and beyond, and, together with developing regulatory guidance and judicial decisions in this area, may affect our use of AI and our ability to provide and to improve our services, require additional compliance measures and changes to our operations and processes, result in increased compliance costs and potential increases in civil claims against us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market in which SoundHound operates is highly competitive and rapidly changing and SoundHound may be unable to compete successfully. 12 Table of Contents There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in the Voice AI market. The market for SoundHounds products and technologies is characterized by intense competition, evolving industry and regulatory standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive software technology developments, short product and service life cycles, price sensitivity on the part of customers, and frequent new product introductions, including alternatives to certain of SoundHounds products from other vendors which may be offered at significantly lower costs or free of charge. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of SoundHounds current and prospective customers. Furthermore, current or prospective customers may decide to develop competing products or to establish, strategic relationships with SoundHounds competitors. Competition in the Voice AI market could adversely affect SoundHounds operating results by reducing the volume of the products and technologies SoundHound licenses or sells, the prices SoundHound can charge or the obligations of SoundHound to incur expenses or capital costs associated with the development, acquisition or promotion of new products or technologies. Some of SoundHounds current or potential competitors are large technology companies that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than SoundHound does, and others are smaller specialized companies that possess specialized expertise or regional focus and may have greater price flexibility than SoundHound does in connection with their business models. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than SoundHound can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, or may decide to offer products at low or unsustainable cost to win new business or to retain their existing clients. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than SoundHound does, and in certain cases may be able to include or combine their competitive products or technologies with other of their products or technologies in a manner whereby the competitive functionality is available at lower cost or free of charge within the larger offering. To the extent they do so, the penetration of SoundHounds products, and therefore its revenue, may be adversely affected. SoundHounds large competitors may also have greater access to customer data, which provides them with a competitive advantage in developing new products and technologies. SoundHounds success depends substantially upon its ability to enhance its products and technologies, to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and technologies that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological enhancements, and to maintain SoundHounds alignment with the technologies and market strategies of its customers, which change and advance over time. If SoundHound is unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes and maintain SoundHounds alignment with its customers, its business will suffer. Adverse conditions in the Voice AI market or the global economy more generally could have adverse effects on SoundHounds results of operations. SoundHounds business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global Voice AI market, as well as the global economy more generally, including global economic trends affecting the automotive, internet of things (IoT), mobile application, call center, semiconductor device maker and restaurant and hospitality industries. For example, SoundHounds largest customers are currently in the automotive industry, and automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences, changes in interest rate levels and credit availability, tariffs, consumer confidence, fuel costs, fuel availability, environmental impact, union strikes, governmental incentives and regulatory requirements, and political volatility, especially in energy-producing countries and growth markets. Such factors may also negatively impact consumer demand for products, including automobiles, that incorporate or use SoundHound products or technologies. In addition, global production and sales trends can be affected by SoundHounds customers ability to continue operating in response to challenging economic conditions, and in response to labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. The volume of global automotive production, in particular, has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for SoundHounds products. Any significant adverse change in any of these factors, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions and the resulting bankruptcy of a customer or the closure of a customer manufacturing facility, may result in a reduction in sales and production by SoundHounds customers, and could have a material adverse effect on SoundHounds business, results of operations and financial condition. SoundHounds strategy to increase cloud connected and embedded products and technologies and expand the number of foreign languages SoundHound understands may adversely affect its near-term revenue growth and results of operations. SoundHound has been and is continuing to develop new cloud-connected and embedded products and technologies. The design and development of new cloud-connected and embedded products and technologies and the addition of new languages will involve significant expense. SoundHounds research and development costs have greatly increased in 13 Table of Contents recent years and, together with certain expenses associated with delivering SoundHounds connected services, are projected to continue to escalate in the near future. SoundHound may encounter difficulties with designing, developing, and releasing new cloud-connected and embedded components, as well as integrating these components with SoundHounds existing technologies. These development issues may further increase costs and may affect SoundHounds ability to innovate in a manner that allows SoundHound to remain competitive relative to its peers. As a result, SoundHounds strategy to incorporate more cloud-connected and embedded components may adversely affect its revenue growth and results of operations. Pricing pressures from SoundHounds customers may adversely affect its results of operations. SoundHound may experience pricing pressure from its customers in the future, including, relative to its automotive industry customers, pricing pressure resulting from the strong purchasing power of major OEMs SoundHound may be expected to quote fixed prices or be forced to accept prices with annual price reduction commitments for long-term sales arrangements or discounted reimbursements for SoundHounds work. Any price reductions could impact SoundHounds sales and profit margins. SoundHounds profitability is also influenced by its success in designing and marketing technological improvements in Voice AI systems. If SoundHound is unable to offset any price reductions in the future, its business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Currently, SoundHounds largest customers are OEMs, and while SoundHound invests effort and money seeking OEMs validation of SoundHounds technology, and there can be no assurance that SoundHound will win or be able to renew its contracts with OEM customers, which could adversely affect SoundHounds results of operations. Some of SoundHounds largest customers are currently OEMs and SoundHound invests effort and money in product research and development in relationship to SoundHounds OEM customers from the time an OEM or a Tier 1 supplier to OEMs begins designing for an upcoming program through the date on which an OEM or Tier 1 supplier customer chooses SoundHounds technology to be incorporated directly or indirectly into one or more specific vehicle models to be produced by such customer. This selection process is known as a design win. SoundHound could expend its resources on these and similar efforts without success. After a design win, a product or technology that did not receive the design win may not be able to displace the winner until the customer begins a new selection process because it is very unlikely that a customer will change complex technology until a product model is revamped. In addition, the company with the winning design may have an advantage with the customer going forward because of the established relationship between the winning company and such customer, which could make it more difficult for such companys competitors to win the designs for other service contracts. Even if SoundHound has an established relationship with a customer, any failure to perform under a service contract or innovate in response to their feedback may neutralize its advantage with that customer. If SoundHound fails to win a significant number of customer design competitions in the future or to renew a significant number of existing service contracts, SoundHounds operating results would be adversely affected. Moreover, to the extent SoundHound is unable to renew existing service contracts, this would negatively impact its revenue. The period of time from winning a contract to implementation is long and SoundHound is subject to the risks of cancellation or postponement of the contract or unsuccessful implementation. SoundHounds products are technologically complex and incorporate many technological innovations. Prospective customers generally must make significant commitments of resources to test and validate SoundHounds products before including them in a product or vehicle. The development cycles of SoundHounds products with new customers are approximately six months to two years after a design win, depending on the customer and the complexity of the product. These development cycles result in SoundHound investing its resources in customers and customer products prior to realizing any revenues from the related customer contracts. Further, SoundHound is subject to the risk that a customer cancels or postpones implementation of SoundHounds technology, as well as that SoundHound will not be able to implement its technology successfully. Additionally, SoundHounds sales could be less than forecast if the product is unsuccessful, including for reasons unrelated to its technology. Long development cycles and product cancellations or postponements may adversely affect SoundHounds business, results of operations. SoundHounds operating results could be materially and adversely affected if it loses any of its largest customers. The loss of business from any of SoundHounds major customers, whether by lower overall demand for the products manufactured by its major customers, cancellation of existing contracts or the failure to award SoundHound new business, could have a material adverse effect on SoundHounds operating results. Alternatively, there is a risk that one or more of SoundHounds major customers could be unable to pay its invoices as they become due or that a customer will simply refuse to make such payments given its financial difficulties. If a major customer becomes subject to bankruptcy or similar 14 Table of Contents proceedings whereby contractual commitments are subject to stay of execution and the possibility of legal or other modification, or if a major customer otherwise successfully procures protection against SoundHound legally enforcing its obligations, it is likely that SoundHound will be forced to record a substantial loss. In addition, certain of SoundHounds customers that are tier 1 suppliers to the automotive industry exclusively sell to certain OEMs, including some of SoundHounds other customers. A bankruptcy of, or other significant disruption to, any of these OEMs could intensify any adverse impact on our business and results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2024, one customer accounted for 14% of SoundHound's total revenues. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, two and three customers accounted for the following approximate percentages of SoundHounds total revenues during the respective applicable period: 62% and 67%. Accounts receivable balances due from one customer totaled 23% of the Companys consolidated accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2024. Accounts receivable balances due from three customers collectively totaled 87% of the Companys consolidated accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2023. The unbilled receivables balances from two customers collectively totaled 74% of the Companys consolidated unbilled receivables balance at December 31, 2024. The unbilled receivables balances from three customers collectively totaled 86% of the Companys consolidated unbilled receivables balance at December 31, 2023. In addition to upfront payments pursuant to professional services or custom engineering agreements, SoundHound generally enters into master service agreements with its largest customers and also provides them with engineering and custom services. Our largest current customers entered into master services agreements with SoundHound pursuant to which they are provided Houndify Cloud Services and, in some cases, associated services on an as-needed basis. The license fees that SoundHound receives under our master services agreements are either fixed minimum monthly hosting fees with overage charges based on usage, or determined based on the volume of products that our customers sell that utilize SoundHound technology. Our master services agreements generally renew automatically for one year terms and are terminable by the customer upon prior written notice of six months to one year. Adverse economic conditions or reduced technology spending may adversely impact SoundHound's business. Our business depends on the overall demand for technology and on the economic performance of our current and prospective customers. In general, worldwide economic conditions may remain unstable, including inflation, in particular in connection with the implementation of tariffs in the U.S. and abroad, and these conditions would make it difficult for our customers, prospective customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause our customers or prospective customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our features. Weak global economic conditions, changes in consumer behavior or a reduction in technology spending even if economic conditions stabilize, could adversely impact our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower demand or prices for our platform, fewer subscriptions and lower or no growth. SoundHounds operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause its stock price to decline. SoundHounds operating results may fluctuate materially in the future. These fluctuations may cause SoundHounds results of operations to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors which would likely cause the price of its stock to decline. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in operating results include: the volume, timing and fulfillment of large customer contracts; renewals of existing customer contracts and wins of new customer programs; increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; receipt of royalty reports; fluctuating sales by SoundHounds customers to their end-users; contractual counterparties failing to meet their contractual commitments to SoundHound; introduction of new products by SoundHound or its competitors; 15 Table of Contents cybersecurity or data breaches; reduction in the prices of SoundHounds products in response to competition, market conditions or contractual obligations; increased costs to raise cash in the market place, including increased borrowing costs as a result of inflation and tariffs; accounts receivable that are not collectible; higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with SoundHounds customers; change in costs due to regulatory or trade restrictions; expenses incurred in litigation matters, whether initiated by SoundHound or brought by third-parties against SoundHound, and settlements or judgments it is required to pay in connection with disputes; and general economic trends as they affect the customer bases into which SoundHound and its customers sell and operate. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, SoundHounds revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. SoundHounds expense levels are based in significant part on its expectations of future revenue, and SoundHound may not be able to reduce its expenses quickly to respond to near-term shortfalls in projected revenue. Therefore, SoundHounds failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm its operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. SoundHound depends on skilled employees and could be impacted by a shortage of critical skills. Much of SoundHounds future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled employees, particularly with respect to technical areas. Skilled and experienced personnel in the areas where SoundHound competes are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Many of SoundHounds key employees receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations or volatility in the stock market could diminish SoundHounds use, and the value, of its equity awards. This would place SoundHound at a competitive disadvantage in attracting qualified personnel or force it to offer more cash compensation. Cybersecurity and data privacy incidents or breaches may damage client relations and inhibit SoundHounds growth. The confidentiality and security of SoundHounds information, and that of third parties, is critical to SoundHounds business. SoundHounds services involve the transmission, use, and storage of customers and their customers information, which may be confidential or contain personally identifiable information. Any cybersecurity or data privacy incidents could have a material adverse effect on SoundHounds results of operations and financial condition. While SoundHound maintains a broad array of information security and privacy measures, policies and practices, its networks may be breached through a variety of means, resulting in someone obtaining unauthorized access to SoundHounds information, to information of SoundHounds customers or their customers, or to SoundHounds intellectual property; disabling or degrading service; or sabotaging systems or information. In addition, hardware, software, systems, or applications SoundHound develops or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to SoundHounds systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom SoundHound does business, through fraud or other forms of deceiving SoundHounds employees, contractors, and vendors. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, SoundHound may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. SoundHound will continue to incur significant costs to continuously enhance its information security measures to defend against the threat of cybercrime. Any cybersecurity or data privacy incident or breach may result in: loss of revenue resulting from the operational disruption; loss of revenue or increased bad debt expense due to the inability to invoice properly or to customer dissatisfaction resulting in collection issues; 16 Table of Contents loss of revenue due to loss of customers; material remediation costs to recreate or restore systems; material investments in new or enhanced systems in order to enhance SoundHounds information security posture; cost of incentives offered to customers to restore confidence and maintain business relationships; reputational damage resulting in the failure to retain or attract customers; costs associated with potential litigation or governmental investigations; costs associated with any required notices of a data breach; costs associated with the potential loss of critical business data; difficulties enhancing or creating new products due to loss of data or data integrity issues; and other consequences of which SoundHound is not currently aware but would discover through the process of remediating any cybersecurity or data privacy incidents or breaches that may occur. SoundHounds business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations, including data protection and anticorruption. SoundHound is subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations in multiple areas, including data protection, anticorruption, labor relations, tax, foreign currency, anti-competition, import, export and trade regulations, and SoundHound is subject to a complex array of federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. In many cases, these laws apply not only to transfers between unrelated third-parties but also to transfers between SoundHound and its subsidiaries. Many jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The European Commission adopted the European General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which went into effect on May 25, 2018. In addition, California adopted significant new consumer privacy laws that became effective beginning in January 2020. Complying with the GDPR and other requirements may cause SoundHound to incur substantial costs and may require it to change our business practices. Additionally, China has recently implemented new regulation pertaining to cybersecurity and the protection of personal information, including the Data Security Law which took effect in September 2001 and the Personal Information Protection Law which took effect in November 2021. Interpretation, application and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations evolve from time to time and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation or changes in enforcement. Compliance with cybersecurity and data security legislation could significantly increase the cost to SoundHound of carrying out its business in China, require significant changes to its operations or even prevent SoundHound from providing certain service offerings in jurisdictions in which SoundHound currently operates or in which it may operate in the future. Despite SoundHounds efforts to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, it is possible that SoundHounds practices, offerings or platform could fail to meet all of the requirements imposed on SoundHound by legislation relating to cybersecurity, data security and/or related implementing regulations. Any failure on SoundHounds part to comply with such law or regulations or any other obligations relating to privacy, data protection or information security, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access, use or release of personally identifiable information or other data, or the perception or allegation that any of the foregoing types of failure or compromise has occurred, could damage SoundHounds reputation, discourage new and existing counterparties from contracting with SoundHound or result in investigations, fines, suspension or other penalties and private claims or litigation, any of which could materially adversely affect SoundHounds business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if SoundHounds practices are not subject to legal challenge, the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm its reputation and brand and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the legal uncertainty created by certain of these laws, including the Data Security Law, and recent government actions could materially adversely affect its ability, on favorable terms, to raise capital. Compliance with data security and personal information protection laws, may result in additional expenses to 17 Table of Contents SoundHound and subject it to negative publicity, which could harm SoundHounds reputation among users and negatively affect the trading price of its shares in the future. Furthermore, SoundHounds data transfer policies may be subject to additional compliance requirement and regulatory burdens, and SoundHound may be required to make further adjustments to its business practices to comply with the interpretation and implementation of such laws, which may increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our operating results. Any failure by SoundHound, its customers or other parties with whom SoundHound does business to comply with its privacy policy or with federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against SoundHound by governmental entities or others. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations may: cause SoundHounds customers to lose confidence in its solutions; harm SoundHounds reputation; expose SoundHound to litigation, regulatory investigations and to resulting liabilities including reimbursement of customer costs, damages penalties or fines imposed by regulatory agencies; and require SoundHound to incur significant expenses for remediation. SoundHound is also subject to a variety of anticorruption laws in respect of its international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, and regulations issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, and various other foreign governmental agencies. SoundHound cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which its international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Actual or alleged violations of these laws and regulations could lead to enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. Because a significant portion of SoundHounds revenues are derived, and a significant portion of its research and development activities are based, outside the United States, its results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory, foreign currency fluctuations and other risks associated with these international regions. Because SoundHound operates worldwide, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. SoundHound currently generates most of its international revenue in Europe and Asia, and SoundHound anticipates that revenue from international operations could increase in the future. SoundHound conducts a significant portion of the development of its voice recognition and natural language understanding solutions in Canada, Germany, Japan and China. SoundHound is exposed to fluctuating exchange rates of foreign currencies including the euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese RMB, Japanese yen, Indian rupee and South Korean won. Accordingly, SoundHounds future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including: adverse political and economic conditions, or changes to such conditions, in a specific region or country; trade protection measures, including tariffs and import/export controls, imposed by the United States and/or by other countries or regional authorities such as China, Canada or the European Union; the impact on local and global economies of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the lack of ability to hedge certain foreign currencies; compliance with laws and regulations in many countries and any subsequent changes in such laws and regulations; geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war; changing data privacy regulations and customer requirements to locate data centers in certain jurisdictions; evolving restrictions on cross-border investment, including recent enhancements to the oversight by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States pursuant to the Foreign Investment Risk Preview Modernization Act and substantial restrictions on investment from China; 18 Table of Contents changes in applicable tax laws; difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions; and less effective protection of intellectual property than in the United States. Interruptions or delays in SoundHounds services or services from data center hosting facilities or public clouds could impair the delivery of its services and harm its business. Because SoundHounds services are complex and incorporate a variety of third-party hardware and software, its services may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for its customers and harm to its reputation and its business. SoundHound has from time to time, found defects in its services, and new errors in its services may be detected in the future. In addition, SoundHound currently serves its customers from data center hosting facilities or third-party public clouds SoundHound directly manages. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems and facilities that serve SoundHounds customers in whole or in part could result in interruptions in its service. Interruptions in SoundHounds service may reduce its revenue, cause SoundHound to issue credits or pay service level agreement penalties, cause customers to terminate their on-demand services, and adversely affect SoundHounds renewal rates and its ability to attract new customers. SoundHound is subject to certain U.S. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, export control, sanctions, and other trade laws and regulations. SoundHound can face serious consequences for violations. Among other matters, U.S. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, export control, sanctions, and other trade laws and regulations, which are collectively referred to as Trade Laws, prohibit companies and their employees, agents, clinical research organizations, legal counsel, accountants, consultants, contractors, and other partners from authorizing, promising, offering, providing, soliciting, or receiving directly or indirectly, corrupt or improper payments or anything else of value to or from recipients in the public or private sector. Violations of Trade Laws can result in substantial criminal fines and civil penalties, imprisonment, the loss of trade privileges, debarment, tax reassessments, breach of contract and fraud litigation, reputational harm, and other consequences. SoundHound also expects its non-U.S. activities to increase in time. SoundHounds business is subject to risks, expenses and uncertainties associated with selling its solutions in locations outside the United States that could adversely affect its operating results. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, SoundHound derived approximately 45%, 85% and 89%, respectively, of its revenues from customers located in countries outside the United States, and SoundHound plans to increase its international operations in the future. Accordingly, SoundHound expects to increasingly face significant operational risks and expenses from doing business internationally. SoundHounds international operating results may be affected by volatility in currency exchange rates and its ability to effectively manage its currency transaction risks. SoundHound would incur currency transaction risks if SoundHound were to enter into either a purchase or a sale transaction using a different currency from the currency in which SoundHound reports revenue. In such cases, SoundHound may suffer an exchange loss because SoundHound does not currently engage in currency swaps or other currency hedging strategies to address this risk. As SoundHound realizes its strategy to expand internationally, its exposure to currency risks may increase. Given the volatility of exchange rates, SoundHound can give no assurance that it will be able to effectively manage its Currency transaction risks or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Other risks and uncertainties SoundHound faces from its global operations include, but are not limited to: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; limited protection for the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights in certain countries where SoundHound may sell SoundHounds solutions or work with suppliers or other third parties; potentially longer sales and payment cycles and potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 19 Table of Contents costs and difficulties of customizing solutions for foreign countries; challenges in providing solutions across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures; laws and business practices favoring local competition; being subject to a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations and adjusting to any unexpected changes in such laws, treaties and regulations; specific and significant regulations, including, but not limited to, the European Unions GDPR, which imposes compliance obligations on companies who possess and use data of EU residents; differences in analysis of regulatory, legal and tax issues across various countries, such as different interpretations of antitrust and competition laws; uncertainty and resultant political, financial and market instability arising from the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union; compliance with U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; uncertainties related to geopolitical risks, including the relationship between the U.S. government and the government of other nations; tariffs, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on SoundHounds ability to sell or develop its solutions in certain foreign markets; operating in countries with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; changes in regulatory requirements, including export controls, tariffs and embargoes, other trade restrictions, competition, corporate practices and data privacy concerns; potential adverse tax consequences arising from global operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in certain parts of the world, particularly during the summer months in Europe and at year-end globally; rapid changes in government, economic and political policies and conditions; and political or civil unrest or instability, terrorism or epidemics or pandemics and other similar outbreaks or events. SoundHounds failure to effectively manage the risks and uncertainties associated with its existing and planned global operations could limit the future growth of its business and adversely affect its operating results. SoundHound relies on third-party telecommunications and internet service providers, including connectivity to its cloud software, and any failure by these service providers to provide reliable services could cause SoundHound to lose customers and subject it to claims for credits or damages, among other things. SoundHound relies on services from third-party telecommunications providers in order to provide services to its customers and their customers, including telephone numbers. In addition, SoundHound depends on its internet bandwidth suppliers to provide uninterrupted and error-free service through their networks. SoundHound exercises little control over these third-party providers, which increases its vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. When problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Service disruption or outages, whether caused by SoundHounds service, the products or services of SoundHounds third-party service providers, or SoundHounds customers or their customers equipment and systems, may result in loss of market acceptance of its products and technologies and any necessary remedial actions may force it to incur significant costs and expenses. 20 Table of Contents If any of these service providers fail to provide reliable services, suffer outages, degrade, disrupt, increase the cost of or terminate the services that SoundHound and its customers depend on, SoundHound may be required to switch to another service provider. Delays caused by switching SoundHounds technology to another service provider, if available, and qualifying this new service provider could materially harm its operating results. Further, any failure on the part of third-party service providers to achieve or maintain expected performance levels, stability and security could harm SoundHounds relationships with its customers, cause it to lose customers, result in claims for credits or damages, increase its costs or the costs incurred by its customers, damage its reputation, significantly reduce customer demand for its products and technologies and seriously harm its and operating results. SoundHounds customers rely on third-party telecommunications and internet service providers to provide them with access and connectivity to SoundHounds cloud software, and changes in how telecommunication and internet service providers handle and charge for access to telecommunications and the internet could materially harm SoundHounds customer relationships, business, financial condition and operations results. SoundHounds customers must have access to wireless telecommunications and/or broadband internet access services in order to use certain of its products and certain of its offerings require substantial capacity to operate effectively. In the United States, wireless telecommunications and internet access services are provided by relatively few companies that, depending on the geographic area, have market power over such offerings. It is possible that these companies could charge SoundHound, its customers, or both fees to guarantee a service amount of capacity, or for quality of wireless telecommunications and broadband internet access services, that could advantage SoundHounds competitors by degrading, disrupting, limiting, or otherwise restricting the use of infrastructure required to support SoundHounds services. These providers likely have the ability to increase SoundHound's rates, SoundHounds customers rates, or both for wireless telecommunications and/or broadband internet access services which may increase the cost of SoundHounds products and technologies making its products and technologies less competitive or decreasing SoundHounds profit margins. SoundHounds plans to expand upon and establish new public cloud-based data centers for its U.S. and international operations may be unsuccessful and may present execution and competitive risks. SoundHound plans to expand upon and establish new public cloud deployments in the future to facilitate its platform in the U.S. and certain international markets. SoundHound may partner with one or more third-parties to develop, test and deploy its technology to offer a full stack of products on the public cloud in the U.S. and certain international markets. SoundHounds public cloud-based platform offering is critical to developing and providing its products to its customers, scaling its business for future growth, accurately maintaining data and otherwise operating its business. Infrastructure buildouts on the public cloud are complex, time-consuming and may involve substantial expenditures. In addition, the implementation of public cloud-based data centers involves risks, including loss of information and potential disruption to SoundHounds normal operations. Deficiencies in the design, implementation or maintenance of the cloud-based data centers could materially harm SoundHounds business. As SoundHound considers approaches for expanding internationally, government regulation protecting the non-discriminatory provision of internet access may be nascent or non-existent. In those markets where regulatory safeguards against unreasonable discrimination are nascent or non-existent and where local network operators possess substantial market power, SoundHound could experience anti-competitive practices that could impede its growth, cause it to incur additional expenses or otherwise harm its business. Future regulations or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications could also hinder SoundHounds operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and result in additional liabilities for SoundHound, which may harm its business. Sales to customers outside the United States or customers with international operations and SoundHounds international sales efforts and operations expose it to risks inherent in international sales and operations. An element of SoundHounds growth strategy is to expand its international sales efforts and develop a worldwide customer base. SoundHounds international expansion may not be successful and may not produce the return on investment it expects. SoundHounds international subsidiaries employ workers primarily in Canada, Germany, France and India. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects it to intellectual property, 21 Table of Contents regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. As SoundHound increases its international sales efforts it will face risks in doing business internationally that could harm its business, including: the need to establish and protect SoundHounds brand in international markets; the need to localize and adapt SoundHounds products for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated costs and expenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly hiring and training qualified sales and service personnel; the need to implement and offer customer care in various languages; different pricing environments, longer sales and accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues; weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the U.S. and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the U.S.; privacy and data protection laws and regulations that are complex, expensive to comply with and may require that customer data be stored and processed in a designated territory; increased risk of piracy, counterfeiting and other misappropriation of SoundHounds intellectual property in its locations outside the U.S.; new and different sources of competition; general economic conditions in international markets; fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, which may make SoundHounds products more expensive in other countries or may increase its costs, impacting its operating results when translated into U.S. dollars; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, telecommunications and telemarketing laws and regulations; increased risk of international telecom fraud; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance with laws and regulations applicable to foreign operations and cross border transactions, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws, supply chain restrictions, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on SoundHounds ability to sell its products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictions or taxes on the transfer of funds; adverse tax consequences; and unstable economic and political conditions and potential accompanying shifts in laws and regulations. These risks could harm SoundHounds international operations, increase its operating costs and hinder its ability to grow its international business and, consequently, its overall business and results of operations. In addition, compliance with laws and regulations applicable to SoundHounds international operations increases its cost of doing business outside the United States. SoundHound may be unable to keep current with changes in foreign 22 Table of Contents government requirements and laws as they change from time to time, which often occurs with minimal or no advance notice. Failure to comply with these regulations could harm its business. In many countries outside the United States, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by SoundHounds internal policies and procedures or United States or international regulations applicable to it. Although SoundHound has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of its employees, contractors, strategic partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by SoundHounds employees, contractors, strategic partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, delays in filing financial reports required as a public company, penalties, or prohibitions on selling its products, any of which could harm its business. Tax matters may cause significant variability in SoundHounds operating results and may impact its overall financial condition. SoundHounds businesses are subject to income taxation in the United States, as well as in many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. If SoundHounds effective tax rate increases, its operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. SoundHound's effective income tax rate can vary significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors including: projected levels of taxable income; pre-tax income being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates; increases or decreases to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets; tax audits conducted and settled by various tax authorities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of income tax returns; the ability to claim foreign tax credits; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which SoundHound has not previously provided for income taxes; and changes in tax laws and their interpretations in countries in which SoundHound is subject to taxation. SoundHound regularly evaluates the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. This analysis is heavily dependent upon SoundHounds current and projected operating results. A decline in future operating results could provide substantial evidence that a full or partial valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on SoundHounds results of operations and financial condition. Forecasts of SoundHounds market and market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which it competes achieve the forecasted growth, there can be no assurance that its business will grow at similar rates, or at all. Growth forecasts described in this Annual Report relating to SoundHounds market opportunities, including in the Voice AI market and adjacent markets, and the expected growth thereof, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may prove to be inaccurate. Even if these markets meet its size estimate and experience the forecasted growth, it may not grow its business at a similar rate, or at all. Its growth is subject to many factors, including its success in implementing its business strategy and ability to penetrate adjacent markets, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, the forecasts of market growth included in this Annual Report should not be taken as indicative of its future growth. 23 Table of Contents If SoundHound is unable to acquire new customers, its operating results will be harmed. Likewise, potential customer turnover in the future, or costs it incurs to retain its existing customers, could materially and adversely affect its operating results. SoundHounds success depends on its ability to acquire new customers in new and existing verticals, and in new and existing geographic markets. If SoundHound is unable to attract a sufficient number of new customers, it may be unable to reduce gross margins at desired rates and its operating results may suffer. The Voice AI market is competitive and many of SoundHounds competitors have substantial financial, personnel and other resources that they utilize to develop solutions and attract customers. As a result, it may be difficult for us to add new customers to SoundHounds existing customer base. Competition in the marketplace may also lead us to win fewer new customers or result in us providing discounts and other commercial incentives. Additional factors that impact SoundHounds ability to acquire new customers include the perceived need for Voice AI -enabled products or Voice AI services, the size of prospective customers budgets for Voice AI, the utility and efficacy of SoundHounds existing and new products, whether proven or perceived, and general economic conditions. These factors may have a meaningful negative impact on operating results. If SoundHound does not successfully anticipate market needs, enhance its existing products, execute on delivering quality products and services, or develop new products and services that meet those needs on a timely basis, it may not be able to compete effectively and its ability to generate revenues will suffer. SoundHound cannot guarantee that it will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop product and service enhancements or new products and services to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner, if at all. Even if SoundHound is able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce enhancements and new products and services, there can be no assurance that enhancements or new products and services will achieve widespread market acceptance. New products, as well as enhancements to its existing products, could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing new products, or product enhancements; failure to accurately predict market demand and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; defects in its products, errors or failures of its products; negative publicity or perceptions about the performance or effectiveness of products; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products or technologies by its competitors; and installation, configuration or usage errors by its customers. If SoundHound fails to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce product enhancements or new products to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose existing customers and prevent us from gaining new customers, which would significantly harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. If SoundHound spends significant time and effort on research and development and is unable to generate an adequate return on its investment, its results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. SoundHounds business model is predicated, in part, on maintaining a customer base that will generate a recurring stream of revenues. If that recurring stream of revenues is not maintained or does not increase as expected, or if SoundHounds business model changes as the industry evolves, its operating results may be adversely affected. SoundHounds business model is dependent, in part, on its ability to maintain and increase a customer base that generates recurring revenues. Existing and future customers of SoundHounds products, technologies and systems may not purchase its subscriptions for its proprietary products or enter into service contracts with SoundHound at the same rate at which customers currently purchase those subscriptions or enter into service contracts with us. If SoundHounds current and future customers purchase a lower volume of subscriptions for SoundHounds proprietary products or do not continue entering into service contracts with us, SoundHounds recurring revenue stream relative to its total revenues would be reduced and its operating results would be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents SoundHounds brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve its customers are dependent in part upon the reliable performance of its products and technologies. If SoundHound is unable to maintain and enhance its brand or reputation as an industry leader, its operating results may be adversely affected. SoundHounds brand, reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve its customers are dependent in part upon the reliable performance of, and the ability of its existing customers and new customers to access and use, its solutions, including real-time analytics and intelligence. Interruptions in SoundHounds systems or the third-party systems on which SoundHound and its products rely, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other factors, could affect the security or availability of our products, network infrastructure, cloud infrastructure and website. Problems with the reliability or security of SoundHounds systems could harm its reputation. Damage to SoundHounds reputation and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect its business, financial condition, and operating results. Additionally, SoundHounds third-party hosting suppliers in certain instances may have no obligations to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and certain of the agreements governing these relationships may be terminated by either party at any time. If SoundHound is unable to maintain, renew, or expand its agreements with these providers on commercially reasonable terms, it may experience costs or downtime as it transitions its operations. Any disruptions or other performance problems with its products could harm SoundHounds reputation and business and may damage its customers businesses. Interruptions in its service delivery might reduce SoundHounds revenue, cause SoundHound to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability and cause customers not to renew their subscription purchases of its products, which eventually adversely affected SoundHound's operating results. We may engage in future acquisitions or strategic transactions which may require us to seek additional financing or financial commitments, increase our expenses and/or present significant distractions to our management. In January 2024, we completed our acquisition of SYNQ3 and in August 2024, we completed our acquisition of Amelia and we continue to actively evaluate opportunities to grow and enhance our business and technologies. In the event we engage in an acquisition or other strategic transaction, including by making an investment in another company, we may need to acquire additional financing. Obtaining financing through the issuance or sale of additional equity and/or debt securities, if possible, may not be at favorable terms and may result in additional dilution to our current stockholders. Additionally, any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, an acquisition or strategic transaction, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including the risks outlined above and additionally: exposure to unknown financial or product liabilities; disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention in order to develop acquired products or technologies; higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; write-downs of assets or goodwill or impairment charges; increased amortization expenses; difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel which may result in reorganizations and reductions in force; impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. 25 Table of Contents Accordingly, although there can be no assurance that we will undertake or successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do complete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If intangible assets and goodwill that we recorded in connection with our acquisitions, including our SYNQ3 and Amelia acquisitions, become impaired, we may have to take significant charges against earnings, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We record goodwill and intangible assets at fair value upon the acquisition of a business. Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill have been impaired. Intangible assets and goodwill will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of intangible assets and goodwill will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in future periods. Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies. As a part of our growth strategy, we have made and may continue to make selected acquisitions of complementary products and/or businesses. Any acquisition involves numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel; problems maintaining uniform procedures, controls and policies with respect to our financial accounting systems; lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations, including risks associated with entering foreign markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid; negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges and contingent acquisition liabilities related to earnout payments or otherwise; the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; the assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; the issuance of equity securities to finance or as consideration for any acquisitions that dilute the ownership of our stockholders (which in the case of certain of our prior acquisitions were significant); the issuance of equity securities to finance or as consideration for any acquisitions may not be an option if the price of our common stock is low or volatile which could preclude us from completing any such acquisitions; diversion of managements attention and company resources from existing operations of the business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; 26 Table of Contents assumption of, or exposure to, historical liabilities of the acquired business, including unknown contingent or similar liabilities, including product liability, that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify; and risks associated with acquiring intellectual property, including potential disputes regarding acquired companies intellectual property. In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, finance, legal, and information technologies. There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we may make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable or accretive. Our failure to successfully address the foregoing risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all. The integration of our acquisitions, and in particular, our acquisition of SYNQ3 and Amelia, may result in significant accounting charges that adversely affect the financial results of our company. The financial results of our company may be adversely affected by cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with our acquisitions. In addition to the anticipated cash charges, costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets are expected. The price of our common stock could decline to the extent our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing charges or if the foregoing charges are larger than anticipated. Our acquisitions may result in unexpected consequences to our business and results of operations. Although we believe that our recently acquired businesses will generally be subject to risks similar to those to which we are subject to in our existing operations, we may not have discovered all risks applicable to these businesses during the due diligence process. Some of these risks could produce unexpected and unwanted consequences for us. Undiscovered risks may result in us incurring financial liabilities, which could be material and have a negative impact on our business operations. Failure to realize the benefits expected from our recent acquisitions could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of our recent acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to: integrate SYNQ3s and Amelia's customer bases and capitalize on our cross-selling opportunities; realize cost savings from reduced back-office and infrastructure expenses, eliminate duplicative company and management structure costs; operate our combined businesses efficiently, achieve the strategic operating objectives for our business and realize significant cost savings and synergies; realize the attractive risk-adjusted equity returns from our acquisitions for our stockholders; and capitalize on the embedded and/or underexploited expansion opportunities offered by our acquisitions that we can expand upon. However, to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions we must successfully integrate their businesses in a manner that permits those benefits and cost savings to be realized. Although we expect benefits to result from these acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully realize these benefits. The challenges involved in this integration will be complex and time consuming and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, and policies that could adversely impact our operations. If we do not successfully manage these and related issues and challenges, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and our revenue, expenses, operating results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. SoundHound has generated substantial net losses and negative operating cash flows since its inception and may continue to do so for the foreseeable future. 27 Table of Contents To date, SoundHound has generated substantial net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities. SoundHound may continue to have net losses and negative operating cash flows as SoundHound continues to invest in its development activities, and in sales and marketing. SoundHound also expects to incur the incremental costs of operating as a public company, contributing to SoundHounds losses and operating uses of cash. SoundHounds costs may also increase due to such factors as higher than anticipated financing and other costs; increases in the costs of labor or infrastructure, in particular following the implementation of the restructuring plan; and major incidents or catastrophic events. If any of these or similar factors occur, SoundHounds net losses and accumulated deficit could increase significantly and the price of shares of its common stock could decline. SoundHound may require additional capital to continue its planned business operations but may not be able to obtain such capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to its stockholders. Even though the total unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand as of December 31, 2024 was $198.2 million, SoundHound may require additional capital to continue its planned business operations. SoundHound anticipates that current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and funds available through SoundHounds at-the-market offering program (ATM program), will not be sufficient to meet its future capital needs. SoundHound will need additional financing to execute on its current or future business strategies, including to: potentially hire additional software engineers, sales and marketing professionals, and other personnel as needed following implementation of the restructuring plan; develop new or enhance existing products and services; enhance SoundHounds operating infrastructure; acquire complementary businesses or technologies; or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If SoundHound raises additional funds through the issuance of equity, including its ATM Program, or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of its stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders, including those acquiring shares in this offering. SoundHound cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to SoundHound, or at all, particularly in light of inflationary pressures and resulting increases in the cost of borrowing. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, SoundHounds ability to fund its operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance its products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. The loss of one or more key members of SoundHounds management team or personnel, or its failure to attract, integrate and retain additional personnel in the future, could harm its business and negatively affect its ability to successfully grow its business. SoundHound is highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of the key members of SoundHounds management team and other personnel. The loss of any of these individuals, each of whom is at will and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, could disrupt SoundHounds operations and significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Additionally, if any of SoundHounds key management team members or other employees were to leave, SoundHound could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors, particularly with consideration to our recent reduction in force related to our restructuring plan and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Although SoundHound has arrangements with some of its executive officers designed to promote retention, its employment relationships are generally at-will and SoundHound has had key employees leave in the past. SoundHound cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave in the future. SoundHound intends to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including research and development and operational personnel, as needed (with consideration to our restructuring plan) but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain such employees could harm SoundHounds business or impair our ability to timely meet business goals and objectives. 28 Table of Contents The Company has identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future, which may result in material misstatements of the Companys consolidated financial statements or cause the Company to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the SECs rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Pursuant to SEC rules and regulations, our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Annually, we perform activities that include reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we will not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and a failure to meet our reporting and financial obligations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock. This could result in significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and lead to a decline in our stock price. We identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The Company did not maintain an effective control environment as it lacked sufficient oversight of activities related to its internal control over financial reporting due to a lack of appropriate level of experience and training commensurate with its financial reporting requirements. Further, due to rapid business growth, changes to existing controls or the implementation of new controls have not been sufficient to respond to changes to the risks of material misstatement to financial reporting, which resulted in the Company, including the SYNQ3 and Amelia entities which were acquired during 2024, not designing and maintaining effective controls related to substantially all accounts and disclosures. These material weaknesses contributed to the following additional material weaknesses as of December 31, 2024: The Company did not design and maintain effective controls related to the identification of and accounting for certain non-routine, unusual or complex transactions, including the accounting for complex financing transactions and acquisitions. The Company did not design and maintain effective controls to verify appropriate segregation of duties, including assessment of incompatible duties, identification of instances where incompatible duties were assigned to an individual, and addressing conflicts on a timely basis. The Company did not design and maintain effective controls over certain information technology (IT) general controls over information systems that are relevant to the preparation of the Companys financial statements. Specifically, the Company did not design and maintain: (i) user access controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user and privileged access to appropriate personnel; (ii) program change management controls to ensure that program and data changes are identified, tested, authorized and implemented appropriately; and (iii) computer operations controls to ensure that processing and transfer of data, and data backups and recovery are monitored. The material weaknesses related to the control environment, risk assessment and the accounting for certain non-routine, unusual or complex transactions resulted in the revision of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the periods ended September 30, 2022, December 31, 2022, March 31, 2023, June 30, 2023, immaterial errors related to SYNQ3 and Amelia acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2024 and immaterial errors in various accounts during the interim and annual periods during 2023 and 2024. The material weaknesses related to segregation of duties and IT general controls did not result in a misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the material weaknesses could result in misstatements to substantially all of our accounts and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention or detection of material misstatements due to error or fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial 29 Table of Contents reports or prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud could harm our business. We regularly review and update our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure