Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the financial statements and accompanying notes and other financial information in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 1, 2024. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other SEC filings. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We are a leading public safety technology company that combines data-driven solutions and strategic advisory services for law enforcement and civic leadership. In April 2023, we introduced our SafetySmartTM platform that includes five data-driven tools consisting of: (i) our flagship product, ShotSpotter (formerly ShotSpotter Respond), a leading outdoor gunshot detection, location and alerting system trusted by 176 cities and 18 universities and corporations as of June 30, 2024, (ii) CrimeTracer (formerly COPLINK X) a leading law enforcement search engine that enables investigators to search through more than one billion criminal justice records from across jurisdictions to generate tactical leads and quickly make intelligent connections to solve cases, (iii) CaseBuilder (formerly ShotSpotter Investigate) a one-stop investigative management system for tracking, reporting, and collaborating on cases, (iv) ResourceRouter (formerly ShotSpotter Connect), which directs the deployment of patrol and community anti-violence resources in an objective way to help maximize the impact of limited resources and improve community safety, and (v) SafePointe, an AI-based weapons detection system, that we added when we acquired SafePointe in August 2023. We also offer other security solutions within our flagship product offering ShotSpotter, including ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate that are typically smaller-scale deployments of ShotSpotter vertically marketed to universities, corporate campuses, highways, and key infrastructure centers to mitigate risk and enhance security by notifying authorities of outdoor gunfire incidents, saving critical minutes for first responders to arrive. SoundThinking Labs supports innovative uses of our technology to help protect wildlife and the environment. In the second quarter of 2024, we announced a strategic partnership to create and launch a new end-to-end vehicle and License Plate Reader (LPR) public safety solution, PlateRanger, Powered by Rekor. This collaboration brings together two industry leaders, combining SoundThinking's expertise in acoustic gunshot detection and investigative solutions with Rekor's best-in-class vehicle LPR solutions. PlateRanger is expected to be positioned as a part of our SafetySmart platform starting in September 2024, marking SoundThinking's expansion into the growing LPR market. Our gunshot detection solutions consist of highly-specialized, cloud-based software integrated with proprietary, internet-enabled sensors designed to detect outdoor gunfire. The speed and accuracy of our gunfire alerts enable law enforcement and security personnel to consistently and quickly respond to shooting events including those unreported through 911, which can increase the chances of apprehending the shooter, providing timely aid to victims, and identifying witnesses before they scatter, as well as aid in evidence collection and serve as an overall deterrent. When a potential gunfire incident is detected by our sensors, our system precisely locates where the incident occurred and applies machine classification combined with human review to analyze and validate the incident. An alert containing a location on a map and critical information about the incident is sent directly to subscribing law enforcement or security personnel through any internet-connected computer and to iPhone or Android mobile devices. Our software sends gunfire data along with the audio of the triggering sound to our Incident Review Center (IRC), where our trained incident review specialists are on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year to screen and confirm actual gunfire incidents. Our trained incident review specialists can supplement alerts with additional tactical 18 information, such as the potential presence of multiple shooters or the use of high-capacity weapons. Gunshot incidents reviewed by our IRC result in alerts typically sent within approximately 45 seconds of the receipt of the gunfire incident. Weoffer our solutions on a software-as-a-service subscription model to our customers. We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter on a per-square-mile basis. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus, and ShotSpotter for Corporate are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. CaseBuilder, ResourceRouter, and CrimeTracer are also sold on a subscription basis generally customized based on the number of sworn officers in a particular city. We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of SafePointe on a per-lane basis, a lane being the detection area of an entryway. As of June 30, 2024, we had ShotSpotter, ShotSpotter for Campus, and ShotSpotter for Corporate coverage areas under contract for 1,184 square miles, of which 1,171 square miles had gone live. Coverage areas under contract for ShotSpotter included 176 cities and coverage areas under contract for ShotSpotter for Campus and ShotSpotter for Corporate included 18 campuses/sites across the United States, South Africa, Uruguay and the Bahamas, including some of the largest cities in the United States. As of June 30, 2024, we had 179 SafePointe lanes under contract. Most of our revenues are attributable to customers based in the United States. While we intend to continue to devote resources to increase sales of our other solutions, we expect that revenues from ShotSpotter will continue to comprise a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. SoundThinking Labs projects are generally conducted in coordination with a sponsoring charitable organization and may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they will generally be sold on a cost-plus basis. As such, SoundThinking Labs projects will normally produce gross margins significantly lower than most of our other solutions. Additionally, we offer pricing programs for Tier 4 and 5 law enforcement agencies (those with fewer than 100 sworn officers) that allow them to contract for our gunshot detection solutions to cover a footprint of less than three square miles, using standardized coverage parameters, at a discounted annual subscription rate. Since our founding over 27 years ago, we have been a purpose-led company. We are a mission-driven organization that focuses on improving public safety outcomes. We accomplish this by earning the trust of law enforcement and providing solutions to help them better engage and strengthen the police-community relationships in fulfilling their sworn obligation to equally serve and protect all. Our inspiration comes from our principal founder, Dr. Bob Showen, who believes that the highest and best use of technology is to promote social good. We are committed to developing comprehensive, respectful, and engaged partnerships with law enforcement agencies, elected officials and communities focused on making a positive difference in the world. We enter into subscription agreements that typically range from one to three years in duration. Substantially all of our sales are to governmental agencies and universities, which often undertake a prolonged contract evaluation process that affects the size or the timing of our sales contracts and may likewise increase our customer acquisition costs. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers to produce components of our solutions. We have no long-term contracts with these manufacturers and purchases from them are generally on a purchase order basis. Although we use a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers, we believe that we could find alternate suppliers or manufacturers if circumstances required us to do so, in part because a portion of the components required by our solutions are available off the shelf. We generated revenues of $27.0 million and $22.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of 22%. For the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 revenues from ShotSpotter represented approximately 69% and 73% of total revenues, respectively. Our two current largest customers, the City of New York and the City of Chicago, accounted for 25% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2024. The City of New York and the City of Chicago accounted for 25% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2023. We generated revenues of $52.4 million and $42.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of 23%. For the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 revenues from ShotSpotter represented approximately 69% and 72% of total revenues, respectively. Our two current largest customers, the City of New York and the City of Chicago, accounted for 26% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2024. The City of New York and the City of Chicago accounted for 26% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2023. 19 For the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, revenues generated within the United States (including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands) accounted for $26.3 million and $21.6 million, respectively, or 98% of total revenues for both periods. For the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, revenues generated within the United States (including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands) accounted for $51.1 million and $41.8 million, respectively, or 98% of total revenues for both periods. We had a net loss of $0.8 million and $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We had a net loss of $3.7 million and $4.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our accumulated deficit was $98.8 million and $95.1 million at June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively. We have focused on rapidly growing our business and believe that our future growth is dependent on many factors, including our ability to increase our customer base, expand the coverage of our solutions among our existing customers, expand our international presence, increase sales of our other solutions and retain our customers. Our future growth will primarily depend on the market acceptance for outdoor gunshot detection solutions. Challenges we face in this regard include our target customers not having access to adequate funding sources, the fact that contracting with government entities can be complex, expensive and time-consuming, the fact that our typical sales cycle is often very long and difficult to estimate accurately, and the fact that negative publicity about our company can and has caused current and potential future customers to evaluate the sales of our solutions more than in the past. We expect international sales cycles to be even longer than our domestic sales cycles. To combat these challenges, we are increasing awareness of our solutions, investing in new sales and marketing campaigns, often in different languages for international sales, hiring additional sales representatives to drive sales to continue to maintain our position as a market leader, and investing in research and development. In addition, we believe that entering into strategic partnerships with other service providers to cities and municipalities offers another potential avenue for expansion. We will also focus on expanding our business by introducing new products and services to existing customers, such as ResourceRouter, CrimeTracer and, as a result of our acquisition in August 2023 of SafePointe, an AI-driven weapon detection system, and acquiring intellectual property assets. We believe that developing and acquiring products for law enforcement in adjacent categories is a path for additional growth. We believe our large and growing installed base of police departments who trust SoundThinkings products, support, and way of doing business provide revenue growth opportunities. The ability to cross-sell new products provides an opportunity to grow revenues per customer and lifetime value. We continue to see robust cross-selling momentum, with Newport News adding our CrimeTracer and CaseBuilder solutions to complement our ShotSpotter and ResourceRouter solutions that they have already implemented. Challenges we face in this area include ensuring our new products are reliable, integrated well with other SoundThinking solutions, and priced and serviced appropriately. In some cases, we will need to bring in new skill sets to properly develop, market, sell or service these new products depending on the categories they represent. With respect to international sales, we believe that we have the potential to expand our coverage within existing areas, and to pursue opportunities in Latin America and other regions of the world. By adding additional sales resources in strategic locations, we believe we will be better positioned to reach these markets. However, we recognize that we have limited international operational experience and currently operate in a limited number of regions outside of the United States. Operating successfully in international markets will require significant resources and management attention and will subject us to additional regulatory, economic, and political risks. We may face additional challenges that may delay contract execution related to negotiating with governments in transition, the use of third-party integrations and consultants. Moreover, we anticipate that different political and regulatory considerations that vary across different jurisdictions could extend or make more difficult to predict the length of what is already a lengthy sales cycle. Net New Go-Live Cities and Universities Net new go-live cities and universities represent the number of cities and universities covered by deployments of our gunshot detection ShotSpotter solution that were formally approved by customers during the period, both from initial and expanded customer deployments, net of cities and universities that ceased to be live during the period due to customer cancellations. New cities and universities include deployed coverage areas that may have been sold, or booked, in a prior period. We focus on net new go-live cities and universities as a key business metric to measure our operational performance and market penetration. Our net new go-live cities and universities in the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: 20 Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net new go-live cities and universities 2 8 11 14 Components of Results of Operations Presentation of Financial Statements Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Revenues We generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of ShotSpotter on a per-square-mile basis and generate annual subscription revenues from the deployment of SafePointe on a per-lane basis, a lane being the detection area of an entryway. Our security solutions, ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus, ShotSpotter for Corporate as well as CaseBuilder are typically sold on a subscription basis, each with a customized deployment plan. ResourceRouter and CrimeTracer are also sold on a subscription basis generally customized based on the number of sworn officers in a particular city. We derive the majority of our revenues from subscription services. We recognize subscription fees ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the subscription, which for new customers is typically one to three years in length. Customer contracts may include one-time fees for the set-up of our sensors in the customers coverage areas, training, and third-party integration licenses. If the set-up fees are deemed to be a material right, they are recognized ratably over three to five years depending on the contract term. Training and third-party integration license fees are recognized upon delivery. We also generate revenues through sales to two customers through sales channel intermediaries that include enhanced services. One sales channel intermediary contract through our Technologic Solutions subsidiary includes (i) a single on-premise software license for our proprietary software technology and related maintenance and support services and (ii) professional software development services, such as for software development and testing for product feature enhancements, by executing supplementary work orders. The second sales channel intermediary contract includes an enterprise CaseBuilder solution with supplemental professional services to integrate CaseBuilder with the customer's existing systems that will remain in place. For ShotSpotter sales to cities, we generally invoice customers for 50% of the total contract value when the contract is fully executed and for the remaining 50% when the subscription service is operational and ready to go live that is, when the customer has acknowledged the completion of all the deliverables in the signed customer acceptance form. For SafePointe, we generally invoice the first year's subscription price when the contract is fully executed. For ShotSpotter for Highways, ShotSpotter for Campus, ShotSpotter for Corporate and CrimeTracer, we generally invoice customers 100% of the total contract value when the subscription service is operational, which is often soon after contract execution. All fees billed in advance of services being delivered are recorded as deferred revenue. The timing of when new miles go live can be uncertain and, as a result, can have a significant impact on the levels of revenues and deferred revenue from quarter to quarter. We may also offer discounts or other incentives in conjunction with all ShotSpotter sales in an effort to introduce the product, accelerate sales or extend renewals for a longer contract term. As a result of our process for invoicing contracts and renewals upon execution, our cash flow from operations and accounts receivable can fluctuate due to timing of contract execution and timing of deployment. We generally invoice subscription service renewals for 100% of the total contract value when the renewal contract is executed. Renewal fees are recognized ratably over the term of the renewal, which is typically one year. While most of our customers elect to renew their agreements, in some cases, they may not be able to obtain the proper approvals or funding to complete the renewal prior to expiration. For these customers, we stop recognizing subscription revenues at the end of the current contract term, even though we may continue to provide services for a period of time until the renewal process is completed. Once the renewal is complete, we then recognize subscription revenues for the period between the expiration of the original term of the agreement and the completion of the renewal process in the month in which the renewal is executed. If a customer declines to renew its subscription prior to the end of the contract term, remaining setup fees, if any, are immediately recognized. 21 We also provide access to CrimeTracer to an intermediary to either be resold or combined with their own materials, software and/or services, to create an integrated solution that is provided to their end-user customers. We recognize this revenue net of margins paid to the intermediary. It is likely that international deployments may have different payment and billing terms due to their local laws, restrictions or other customary terms and conditions. SoundThinking Labs projects may or may not be revenue-producing. When they are revenue-producing, they are generally sold on a cost-plus basis. We anticipate that, due to rising costs of inflation, our customers may experience increased expenditures resulting in budget shortfalls and changes in their business cycle, which may cause delays in their ability to approve proposals for contracts. Costs Costs include the cost of revenues and impairment of property and equipment. Cost of revenues for ShotSpotter solutions primarily includes depreciation expense associated with capitalized customer acoustic sensor networks, communication expenses, costs related to hosting our service applications, costs related to operating our IRC, providing remote and on-site customer support and maintenance and forensic services, providing customer training and onboarding services, certain personnel and related costs of operations, stock-based compensation and allocated overheads that include information technology, facility and equipment depreciation costs. Cost of revenues for our SafePointe solution are similar except that depreciation of the capitalized customer equipment is smaller due to the lower costs of SafePointe customer equipment. Impairment of property and equipment is primarily attributable to our write-off of the remaining book value of sensor networks related to customers lost. In the near term, we expect our cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as our installed base increases, although certain of our costs of revenues are fixed and do not need to increase commensurate with increases in revenues. In addition, depreciation expense associated with deployed equipment for ShotSpotter and SafePointe is recognized over the first five and three years from the go live date, respectively. We also expect cost of revenues to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our customer success capabilities to drive growth and value for our customers. For revenues generated through the sale of a proprietary software license and related maintenance and support services and professional software development services, cost of revenues generally includes employee compensation costs that are relatively fixed, third-party contractor costs, allocated facility costs and overhead, and the costs of billable expenses such as travel and lodging. The unpredictability of the timing of entering into significant professional services agreements may cause significant fluctuations in our costs which, in turn, may impact our quarterly financial results. The cost of revenues for CrimeTracer, ResourceRouter and CaseBuilder is generally related to employee compensation costs and data center hosting services, both of which are relatively fixed. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses. Consultants, salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and other personnel costs are the most significant components of each of these expense categories. We include stock-based compensation expense incurred in connection with the grant of stock options and restricted stock units to the applicable operating expense category based on the equity award recipients functional area. We are focused on executing on our growth strategy. As a result, in the near term we expect our total operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we incur additional expenses due to growth. Although our operating expenses will fluctuate, we expect that over time, they will generally decrease as a percentage of revenues. 22 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our sales and marketing personnel, commissions, marketing expenses for trade shows and lead generation programs, consulting fees, travel and facility-related costs and allocated overhead. We expect sales and marketing expenses will increase in the near-term in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our organization and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of commission expense, marketing campaigns and tradeshows. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our research and development personnel, consulting fees and allocated overhead. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to develop new lower-cost sensor hardware, develop new features, improve functionality of our solutions and adapt to new technologies or changes to existing technologies. We are investing in engineering resources to support further development of ResourceRouter, CrimeTracer, CaseBuilder and SafePointe. The focus of this effort will be in the areas of data science modeling, user experience, core application functionality and backend infrastructure improvements, including integration of ShotSpotter gunshot data to enhance forecasting of gun violence. We are also investing in research and development resources in conjunction with our SoundThinking Labs projects and initiatives. The initial focus of these efforts is to develop innovative sensor applications as well as to test and expand the functionality of our outdoor sensors in challenging environmental conditions. In the near term, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen our software and invest in the development of our services. We will continue to invest in research and development to leverage our large and growing database of acoustic events, which includes those from both gunfire and non-gunfire. We also intend to leverage third-party artificial intelligence and our own evolving cognitive and analytical applications to improve the efficiency of our solutions. Certain of these applications and outputs may expand the platform of services that we will be able to offer our customers. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel-related costs attributable to our executive, finance, and administrative personnel, legal, litigation, strategic communications, accounting and other professional services fees, and other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. In the near term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues as we grow our business. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration Change in fair value of contingent consideration primarily consists of increases or decreases in our contingent consideration liabilities recorded for potential earnouts from certain acquisitions. The changes result from revenue actuals and revised revenue estimates utilized in the fair value methodology to estimate the contingent liability for the earnouts. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income, interest expense and local and franchise tax expenses. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our income (loss) before tax and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits and deductions, as applicable. We continually monitor all positive and negative evidence regarding the realization of our deferred tax assets and may record assets when it becomes more likely than not that they will be realized, which may impact the expense or benefit from income taxes. 23 In assessing the realizabilityof deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We regularly assess the likelihood that the deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. We consider projected future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies, then record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of the net deferred taxes to an amount that is more likely than not able to be realized. Based upon our assessment of all available evidence, including the previous three years of income before tax after permanent items, estimates of future profitability, and our overall prospects of future business, we have determined that it is more likely than not that we will not be able to realize a portion of the deferred tax assets in the future. We will continue to assess the potential realization of deferred tax assets on an annual basis, or an interim basis if circumstances warrant. If our actual results and updated projections vary significantly from the projections used as a basis for this determination, we mayneed to changethevaluationallowance against the grossdeferred tax assets. Results of Operations Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): As a % of As a % of Change 2024 Revenues 2023 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 26,960 100 % $ 22,075 100 % $ 4,885 22 % Costs Cost of revenues 10,781 40 % 9,413 43 % 1,368 15 % Impairment of property and equipment 106 0 % 106 Total costs 10,887 40 % 9,413 43 % 1,474 16 % Gross profit 16,073 60 % 12,662 57 % 3,411 27 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 7,322 27 % 7,443 34 % (121 ) (2 %) Research and development 3,468 13 % 3,057 14 % 411 13 % General and administrative 5,880 22 % 5,513 25 % 367 7 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration (554 ) (2 %) (999 ) (5 %) 445 (45 %) Total operating expenses 16,116 60 % 15,014 68 % 1,102 7 % Operating loss (43 ) (0 %) (2,352 ) (11 %) 2,309 (98 %) Other income (expense), net (475 ) (2 %) (1 ) (474 ) Provision for income taxes 234 1 % 344 (2 %) (110 ) (32 %) Net loss $ (752 ) (3 %) $ (2,697 ) (12 %) $ 1,945 (72 %) Revenues The increase in revenues of $4.9 million was primarily attributable to a $3.5 million increase in revenues from new customers, expansion of existing customer coverage areas, additional cross-selling revenue, including from Newport News, which added our CrimeTracer and CaseBuilder solutions to complement already implemented ShotSpotter and ResourceRouter solutions, and additional revenues from SafePointe that we acquired in the third quarter of 2023, and an increase of $1.4 million in professional services revenue due to higher and earlier achievement of professional services revenue from our Technologic Solutions group. ShotSpotter went live in three new cities and expanded with four current cities, two commercial customers and one university during the three months ended June 30, 2024. Costs of Revenues The increase in cost of revenues of $1.4 million was due primarily to an increase of approximately $1.0 million in product costs due to the increase in our customer base. The increase also reflects an increase of approximately $0.4 million in personnel costs due to our SafePointe acquisition in the third quarter of 2023. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense decreased by $0.1 million. This was primarily due to a $0.8 million one time write off of the Forensic Logic tradename in the second quarter of 2023, partially offset by an increase of $0.7 million in salaries, 24 commissions and other personnel costs, as a result of increased headcount and increased revenue in the second quarter of 2024. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased by $0.4 million, primarily due to increased headcount as a result of our SafePointe acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2023. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased by $0.4 million and was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, and increases in insurance and other costs. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration The fair value of the SafePointe contingent consideration liability decreased by $0.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2024, based upon revised 2024 and 2025 revenue estimates utilized in the fair value methodology to estimate the contingent liability for the earnouts. Other Income (Expense), Net The increase of $0.5 million in other expense, net was primarily due to a one-time restructuring expense of $0.3 million, comprised of workforce reduction severance and other employee separation-related costs and restructuring costs related to a lease termination for a location that was no longer in use. The increase was also due to interest expense related to the line of credit of $0.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2024. The line of credit was primarily used to fund our acquisition of SafePointe. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. A $0.2 million provision for income taxes was recorded in the three months ended June 30, 2024. A $0.3 million provision for income taxes was recorded in the three months ended June 30, 2023. Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): As a % of As a % of Change 2024 Revenues 2023 Revenues $ % Revenues $ 52,370 100 % $ 42,695 100 % $ 9,675 23 % Costs Cost of revenues 21,052 40 % 18,656 44 % 2,396 13 % Impairment of property and equipment 358 1 % 72 0 % 286 397 % Total costs 21,410 41 % 18,728 44 % 2,682 14 % Gross profit 30,960 59 % 23,967 56 % 6,993 29 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 14,434 28 % 13,291 31 % 1,143 9 % Research and development 7,028 13 % 5,710 13 % 1,318 23 % General and administrative 12,710 24 % 10,129 24 % 2,581 25 % Change in fair value of contingent consideration (554 ) (1 %) (1,005 ) (2 %) 451 (45 %) Total operating expenses 33,618 64 % 28,125 66 % 5,493 20 % Operating loss (2,658 ) (5 %) (4,158 ) (10 %) 1,500 (36 %) Other income (expense), net (655 ) (1 %) 15 0 % (670 ) Provision for income taxes 348 1 % 344 (1 %) 4 1 % Net loss $ (3,661 ) (7 %) $ (4,487 ) (11 %) $ 826 (18 %) Revenues 25 The increase in revenues of $9.7 million was primarily attributable to a $7.1 million increase in revenues from new customers, expansion of existing customer coverage areas, contributions from the SafePointe acquisition in the third quarter of 2023 and an increase of $2.6 million in professional services revenue. We went live in 13 new ShotSpotter cities and one university and expanded in six current cities, two commercial customers and one university during the six months ended June 30, 2024. Costs of Revenues The increase in cost of revenues of $2.4 million was due primarily to an increase in product costs due to the increase in our customer base and an increase in personnel costs due to our SafePointe acquisition in the third quarter of 2023. Sales and Marketing Expense Sales and marketing expense increased by $1.1 million, primarily due to salaries, commissions and other personnel costs as a result of increased headcount and increased revenue. This includes $0.4 million in additional expense as a result of our SafePointe acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2023. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense increased by $1.3 million, primarily due to increased headcount, of which $0.7 million is attributable to our SafePointe acquisition. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased by $2.6 million and was due primarily to increased personnel-related costs, and increases in travel costs, insurance and other costs. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration The fair value of the SafePointe contingent consideration liability decreased by $0.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024, based upon revised 2024 and 2025 revenue estimates utilized in the fair value methodology to estimate the contingent liability for the earnouts. Other Income (Expense), Net The increase in other expense, net was primarily due to a one-time restructuring expense of $0.3 million comprised of workforce reduction severance and other employee separation-related costs and restructuring costs related to a lease termination for a location that was no longer in use. The increase was also due to interest expense related to the line of credit of $0.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2024. The line of credit was primarily used to fund our acquisition of SafePointe. Income Taxes Our income taxes are based on the amount of our taxable income and enacted federal, state and foreign tax rates, adjusted for allowable credits, deductions and the valuations allowance against deferred tax assets, as applicable. A $0.3 million provision for income taxes was recorded in both the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Funds Our operations have been financed primarily through net proceeds from the sale of equity, debt financing arrangements and cash from operating activities. Our principal source of liquidity is cash and cash equivalents totaling $9.8 million and accounts receivable of $35.7 million as of June 30, 2024. On June 30, 2024, our available credit facility was approximately $18.0 million and we had $7.0 million outstanding on our line of credit, which was primarily used to fund our acquisition of SafePointe. On August 1, 2024, we repaid $3.0 million on our line of credit. Following this payment, we have an outstanding balance of $4.0 million on our line of credit. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, our available credit facility and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We believe that the costs to perform the short-term deferred revenue is relatively low compared to the balance of $43.0 million. However, should additional working capital be needed, we can utilize our unused credit facility. We believe that we will 26 meet longer term expected future working capital and capital expenditure requirements through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our available credit facility. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on sales and marketing, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new product introductions, market acceptance of our products and overall economic conditions. We may also seek additional capital to fund our operations, including through the sale of equity or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the future sale of equity, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing common stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Additionally, there is no guarantee debt or equity financing will be available to us on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Use of Funds Our historical uses of cash have primarily consisted of cash used for operating activities, such as expansion of our sales and marketing operations, research and development activities and other working capital needs, and cash used in investing activities, such as property and equipment expenditures to install infrastructure in customer cities in order to deliver our solutions and acquisitions. Our expected material cash requirements are similar to our historical uses of cash as well as in connection with contingent earnouts, our stock repurchase program and repayment of any outstanding debt obligations under our credit facility, each as described below. On November 24, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Technologic for a purchase consideration of $21.6 million in cash, subject to working capital adjustments, and the issuance of 63,901 shares of our common stock that were valued at $2.0 million at the time of acquisition. The purchase consideration also included a contingent earnout payable based on revenues generated during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022. The $1.5 million contingent earnout for 2022 was earned and paid in March 2023. Stock Repurchase Program In November 2022, we announced that our board of directors had approved a stock repurchase program (the "2022 Repurchase Program") for up to $25.0 million of our common stock. The shares could be repurchased from time to time in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions or by other methods in accordance with federal securities laws. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will be determined by management in its discretion and will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions and applicable legal requirements. The stock repurchase program does not obligate us to purchase any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we repurchased 134,150 shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.86 per share for approximately $2.0 million, under the 2022 Repurchase Program. The repurchases were made in open market transactions using cash on hand, and all of the shares repurchased were retired. As of June 30, 2024, $17.4 million remains available under the 2022 Repurchase Program. Credit Facility In September 2018, we entered into our Umpqua Credit Agreement, initially providing for borrowing capacity of $10.0 million. The agreement was amended in November 2022 to increase the size of our available credit facility to $25.0 million with an expiration date of October 15, 2024. An additional amendment occurred in February 2024 to extend the expiration date to October 15, 2025. The revolving loan facility is for general working capital purposes. Our available credit facility as of June 30, 2024 was $18.0 million. On June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023, there was $7.0 million outstanding on our line of credit. On August 1, 2024, we repaid $3.0 million on our line of credit. Following this payment, we have an outstanding balance of $4.0 million on our line of credit. The Umpqua Credit Agreement subjects us to certain restrictive and financial covenants, see the risk entitled The incurrence of debt may impact our financial position and subject us to additional financial and operating restrictions in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We are in compliance with all covenants under the Umpqua Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2024. 27 Cash Flows Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 9,391 $ 1,305 Investing activities (3,748 ) (3,266 ) Financing activities (1,550 ) (4,521 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 4,093 $ (6,482 ) Operating Activities Our net loss and cash flows provided by operating activities are significantly influenced by our increase in headcount to support our growth, increase in legal expenses, outside services fees, and sales and marketing expenses, and our ability to bill and collect in a timely manner. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $8.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. This was primarily due to increased deferred revenue of $12.1 million, an increase in accrued liabilities and other liabilities of $1.2 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses of $0.8 million, an increase in cash flows from operations adjusted for non-cash operating expenses of $2.2 million, offset by increased accounts receivables of $8.2 million. Investing Activities Our investing activities consist of business acquisition expenditures, capital expenditures to install our solutions in customer coverage areas and purchases of property and equipment. Investing activities used $3.8 million in the six months ended June 30, 2024. This was primarily driven by investments in property and equipment installed for our solutions in customer coverage areas. Investing activities used $3.3 million in the six months ended June 30, 2023, primarily for investments in installed property and equipment. Financing Activities Financing activities includes net proceeds from the exercise of stock options, proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan purchases and proceeds from our line of credit, offset by payments for repurchases of our common stock and contingent consideration liabilities earned and repayments on our line of credit. Financing activities used $1.6 million in the six months ended June 30, 2024, and reflect common stock repurchases of approximately $2.0 million, offset by $0.4 million in proceeds from our employee purchase plan. Financing activities used $4.5 million in the six months ended June 30, 2023. This was driven by $3.6 million in payments for repurchases of our common stock and the payout of $1.5 million for the Technologic contingent consideration offset by $0.5 million in proceeds from our employee stock plan purchase and $0.1 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues, assets, liabilities, costs and expenses. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. 28 Our critical accounting estimates are described under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements appearing in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on April 1, 2024. As of June 30, 2024, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to our condensed, consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 29