Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"; reviewing and approving any related party transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC prior to us entering into such transaction; and reviewing with management, the independent registered public accounting firm, and our legal advisors, as appropriate, any legal, regulatory or compliance matters, including any correspondence with regulators or government agencies and any employee complaints or published reports that raise material issues regarding our financial statements or accounting policies and any significant changes in accounting standards or rules promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Compensation Committee We have established a compensation committee of our board of directors. The members of our compensation committee are William P. Crowell, Henry A. Crumpton and Gilman Louie, and William P. Crowell is chairman of the compensation committee. Under the NYSE listing standards and applicable SEC rules, we are required to have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors. Our board of directors has determined that each of William P. Crowell, Henry A. Crumpton and Gilman Louie are independent. We have adopted a compensation committee charter, which details the principal functions of the compensation committee, including: reviewing and approving on an annual basis the corporate goals and objectives relevant to our chief executive officers compensation, evaluating our chief executive officers performance in light of such goals and objectives and determining and approving the remuneration (if any) of our chief executive officers based on such evaluation; reviewing and making recommendations to our board of directors with respect to the compensation, and any incentive compensation and equity based plans that are subject to board approval of all of our other officers; reviewing our executive compensation policies and plans; implementing and administering our incentive compensation equity-based remuneration plans; assisting management in complying with our proxy statement and annual report disclosure requirements; approving all special perquisites, special cash payments and other special compensation and benefit arrangements for our officers and employees; producing a report on executive compensation to be included in our annual proxy statement; and reviewing, evaluating and recommending changes, if appropriate, to the remuneration for directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as indicated above, other than the payment of customary fees we may elect to make to members of our board of directors for director service and payment to an affiliate of our Sponsor of $10,000 per month, for up to 24 months, for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support and reimbursement of expenses, no compensation of any kind, including finders, consulting or other similar fees, will be paid to any of our existing shareholders, officers, directors or any of their respective affiliates, prior to, or for any services they render in order to effectuate the consummation of an initial business combination. Accordingly, it is likely that prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, the compensation committee will only be responsible for the review and recommendation of any compensation arrangements to be entered into in connection with such initial business combination. The charter provides that the compensation committee may, in its sole discretion, retain or obtain the advice of a compensation consultant, independent legal counsel or other adviser and will be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and 46 oversight of the work of any such adviser. However, before engaging or receiving advice from a compensation consultant, external legal counsel or any other adviser, the compensation committee will consider the independence of each such adviser, including the factors required by NYSE and the SEC. Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation None of our executive officers currently serves, and in the past year has not served, as a member of the compensation committee of any entity that has one or more executive officers serving on our board of directors. Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee We have established a corporate governance and nominating committee of our board of directors. The members of our corporate governance and nominating committee are William P. Crowell, Henry A. Crumpton and Gilman Louie, and Henry A. Crumpton is as chairman of the corporate governance and nominating committee. Under the NYSE listing standards, we are required to have a corporate governance and nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors. Our board of directors has determined that each of William P. Crowell, Henry A. Crumpton and Gilman Louie are independent. We have adopted a nominating and corporate governance committee charter, which details the purpose and responsibilities of the nominating and corporate governance committee, including: identifying, screening and reviewing individuals qualified to serve as directors, consistent with criteria approved by the board, and recommending to the board of directors candidates for nomination for election at the annual meeting of shareholders or to fill vacancies on the board of directors; developing and recommending to the board of directors and overseeing implementation of our corporate governance guidelines; coordinating and overseeing the annual self-evaluation of the board of directors, its committees, individual directors and management in the governance of the Company; and reviewing on a regular basis our overall corporate governance and recommending improvements as and when necessary. The charter provides that the nominating and corporate governance committee may, in its sole discretion, retain or obtain the advice of, and terminate, any search firm to be used to identify director candidates, and will be directly responsible for approving the search firms fees and other retention terms. We have not formally established any specific, minimum qualifications that must be met or skills that are necessary for directors to possess. In general, in identifying and evaluating nominees for director, the board of directors considers educational background, diversity of professional experience, knowledge of our business, integrity, professional reputation, independence, wisdom, and the ability to represent the best interests of our shareholders. Prior to our initial business combination, holders of our public shares will not have the right to recommend director candidates for nomination to our board of directors. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our directors, officers and employees. We have filed a copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as an exhibit to our registration statement in connection with the Public Offering. You are able to review this document by accessing our public filings at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the committees of our board of directors will be provided without charge upon request from us in writing at 12020 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 100, Reston, Virginia 20191or by telephone at (571) 500-2236. If we make any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics other than technical, administrative or other non-substantive amendments, or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions requiring disclosure under applicable SEC or NYSE rules, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website. 47 Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires the Companys executive officers, directors, and persons who beneficially own more than ten percent of a registered class of the Companys equity securities, to file with the SEC initial reports of ownership and reports of changes in ownership of the Companys common stock. Such officers, directors, and persons are required by SEC regulation to furnish the Company with copies of all Section 16(a) forms that they file with the SEC. Based solely on a review of the copies of such forms that were received by the Company, except for a Form 3 filed on November 16, 2020 for Mr. Coleman and a Form 3 filed on September 17. 2020 for Six4 Holdings LLC, the Company is not aware of any failures to file reports or report transactions in a timely manner during the year ended December 31, 2020. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. None of our officers or directors have received any cash compensation for services rendered to us. We will pay our Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to members of our management team. In addition, our Sponsor, officers and directors, or any of their respective affiliates will be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. Our audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to our Sponsor, officers or directors, or our or their affiliates. Any such payments prior to an initial business combination will be made from funds held outside the Trust Account. Other than quarterly audit committee review of such reimbursements, we do not expect to have any additional controls in place governing our reimbursement payments to our directors and officers for their out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with our activities on our behalf in connection with identifying and consummating an initial business combination. Other than these payments and reimbursements, no compensation of any kind, including finders and consulting fees, will be paid by the Company to our Sponsor, officers and directors, or any of their respective affiliates, prior to completion of our initial business combination. After the completion of our initial business combination, directors or members of our management team who remain with us may be paid consulting or management fees from the combined company. All of these fees will be fully disclosed to shareholders, to the extent then known, in the proxy solicitation materials or tender offer materials furnished to our shareholders in connection with a proposed business combination. We have not established any limit on the amount of such fees that may be paid by the combined company to our directors or members of management. It is unlikely the amount of such compensation will be known at the time of the proposed business combination, because the directors of the post-combination business will be responsible for determining officer and director compensation. Any compensation to be paid to our officers will be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, either by a compensation committee constituted solely by independent directors or by a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors. We do not intend to take any action to ensure that members of our management team maintain their positions with us after the consummation of our initial business combination, although it is possible that some or all of our officers and directors may negotiate employment or consulting arrangements to remain with us after our initial business combination. The existence or terms of any such employment or consulting arrangements to retain their positions with us may influence our managements motivation in identifying or selecting a target business but we do not believe that the ability of our management to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination will be a determining factor in our decision to proceed with any potential business combination. We are not party to any agreements with our officers and directors that provide for benefits upon termination of employment. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS. We have no compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance. The following table sets forth information regarding the beneficial ownership of our common stock as of March 29, 2021, by: each person known by us to be a beneficial owner of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock of, on an as-converted basis; each of our officers and directors; and all of our officers and directors as a group. 48 The following table is based on 28,750,000 common stock outstanding as of March 29, 2021, of which 23,000,000 were Class A shares and 5,750,000 were Class B shares. Unless otherwise indicated, it is believed that all persons named in the table below have sole voting and investment power with respect to all common stock beneficially owned by them. Class A Common Stock Class B Common Stock Name and Address of Beneficial Owner (1) Number of Shares Beneficially Owned % of Class Number of Shares Beneficially Owned (2) % of Class Soroban Opportunities Master Fund LP (3) 2,131,322 9.3 % Soroban Capital GP LLC (3) 2,131,322 9.3 % Soroban Capital Partners LP (3) 2,131,322 9.3 % Soroban Capital Partners GP LLC (3) 2,131,322 9.3 % Eric W. Mandelblatt (3) 2,131,322 9.3 % Israel A. Englander (4) 1,803,272 7.8 % Millennium Management LLC (4) 1,803,272 7.8 % Millennium Group Management LLC (4) 1,803,272 7.8 % Linden Advisors LP (5) 1,500,000 6.5 % Siu Min (Joe) Wong (5) 1,500,000 6.5 % Linden Capital L.P. (5) 1,341,716 5.8 % Linden GP LLC (5) 1,341,716 5.8 % Six4 Holdings LLC (2) 5,667,500 98.6 % Robert A. Coleman (2) 5,667,500 98.6 % Jack Pearlstein (2) 5,667,500 98.6 % William P. Crowell (2) 25,000 * Henry A. Crumpton (2) 25,000 * Gilman Louie (2) 32,500 * All executive officers and directors as group (5 individuals) 5,750,000 100.0 % * less than 1% (1) Unless otherwise noted, the business address of each of our shareholders listed is 12020 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 100, Reston, Virginia 20191. (2) Six4 Holdings LLC is the record holder of such shares. Mr. Coleman and Mr. Pearlstein are the managers and the members of the Companys management team, of Six4 Holdings LLC. Messrs. Coleman and Pearlstein share voting and investment discretion with respect to the shares held of record by Six4 Holdings LLC. Each of the foregoing individuals disclaims any beneficial ownership of the securities held by Six4 Holdings LLC other than to the extent of any pecuniary interest he may have therein, directly or indirectly. (2) Interests shown consist solely of founder shares, classified as Class B common stock. Such shares automatically convert into Class A common stock at the time of the consummation of our initial business combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment, as described in the section entitled Description of Securities. (3) Soroban Capital GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is the general partner of Soroban Opportunities Master Fund LP, an exepmpted company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and may be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Soroban Master Fund LP. (3) Soroban Capital Partners GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is the general partner of Soroban Capital GP LP, a Delaware limited partnership, and may be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Soroban Capital Partners LP. (3) Eric W. Mandleblatt is the managiung partner of Sorobon Capital Partners LLC and Soroban Capital Partners GP LLC and may be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Soroban Opportunities Master Fund LP, Soroban Capital GP LLC, Soroban Capital Partners LP and Soroban Partners GP LLC. (4) As of the close of business on December 31, 2020, the reporting persons beneficially owned an aggregate of 1,803,272 shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock as a result of holding 1,803,272 of the Issuers units. Each unit consists of one share of the Issuers Class A Common Stock and one-half of one warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of the Issuers Class A Common Stock. The Issuers warrants will become exercisable on 49 the later of 30 days after the completion of the Issuers initial business combination and 12 months from the closing of the Issuers initial public offeringIntegrated Core Strategies (US) LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Integrated Core Strategies"), beneficially owned 353,272 shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock as a result of holding 353,272 of the Issuers units. (4) Riverview Group LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Riverview Group"), beneficially owned 900,000 shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock as a result of holding 900,000 of the Issuers units (4) ICS Opportunities, Ltd., an exempted company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("ICS Opportunities"), beneficially owned 550,000 shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock as a result of holding 550,000 of the Issuers units, which together with the shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock beneficially owned by Integrated Core Strategies and Riverview Group represented 1,803,272 shares of the Issuers Class A Common Stock or 7.8% of the Issuers Class A Common Stock outstanding. (4) Millennium International Management LP, a Delaware limited partnership ("Millennium International Management"), is the investment manager to ICS Opportunities and may be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by ICS Opportunities. (4) Millennium Management LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Millennium Management"), is the general partner of the managing member of Integrated Core Strategies and Riverview Group and may be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Integrated Core Strategies and Riverview Group. Millennium Management is also the general partner of the 100% owner of ICS Opportunities and may also be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by ICS Opportunities. (4) Millennium Group Management LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Millennium Group Management"), is the managing member of Millennium Management and may also be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Integrated Core Strategies and Riverview Group. Millennium Group Management is also the general partner of Millennium International Management and may also be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by ICS Opportunities. (4) The managing member of Millennium Group Management is a trust of which Israel A. Englander, a United States citizen ("Mr. Englander"), currently serves as the sole voting trustee. Therefore, Mr. Englander may also be deemed to have shared voting control and investment discretion over securities owned by Integrated Core Strategies, Riverview Group and ICS Opportunities. (4) The foregoing should not be construed in and of itself as an admission by Millennium International Management, Millennium Management, Millennium Group Management or Mr. Englander as to beneficial ownership of the securities owned by Integrated Core Strategies, Riverview Group or ICS Opportunities, as the case may be. (5) Linden GP is the general partner of Linden Capital and, in such capacity, may be deemed to beneficially own the Shares held by Linden Capital. Linden Advisors is the investment manager of Linden Capital and trading advisor or investment advisor for the Managed Accounts. Mr. Wong is the principal owner and controlling person of Linden Advisors and Linden GP. In such capacities, Linden Advisors and Mr. Wong may each be deemed to beneficially own the Shares held by each of Linden Capital and the Managed Accounts. As of December 31, 2020, each of Linden Advisors and Mr. Wong may be deemed the beneficial owner of 1,500,000 Shares. This amount consists of 1,341,716 Shares held by Linden Capital and 158,284 Shares held by separately managed accounts. As of December 31, 2020, each of Linden GP and Linden Capital may be deemed the beneficial owner of the 1,341,716 Shares held by Linden Capital. (5) Linden GP LLC, is a Delaware limited liability company (Linden GP) (5) Linden Capital L.P., is a Bermuda limited partnership (Linden Capital) (5) Linden Advisors LP, is a Delaware limited partnership (Linden Advisors) (5) Siu Min (Joe) Wong (Mr. Wong), is a citizen of China (Hong Kong) and the United States. The table above does not include the shares of common stock underlying the placement warrants held or to be held by our sponsor because these securities are not exercisable within 60 days of this report. 50 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. Founder Shares On June 16, 2020, the Sponsor paid $25,000, or approximately $0.004 per share, to cover certain of our offering costs relating to the Public Offering in exchange for 5,750,000 Founder Shares. In connection with the Business Combination, each of the 5,750,000 Founder Shares will convert on a one-for-one basis into one share of Spire PubCo common stock. Private Placement Warrants The Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 6,600,000 private placement warrants, each exercisable to purchase one Class A ordinary share at $11.50 per share, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, or $6,600,000 in the aggregate, in connection with the Public Offering. The private placement warrants are identical to the warrants sold in the Public Offering except that the private placement warrants, so long as they are held by the Sponsor or its permitted transferees, (i) are not be redeemable by the Company, (ii) may not (including the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants), subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the holders until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination, (iii) may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis and (iv) are entitled to registration rights. In connection with the Business Combination, each of the 6,600,000 private placement warrants will convert automatically into one warrant to purchase one share of Spire PubCo common stock pursuant to the warrant agreement between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, dated as of September 14, 2020. Subscription Agreements Concurrently with the execution of the Transaction Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements with certain institutional and accredited investors (the PIPE Investors) and with Robert A. Coleman and Jack Pearlstein, affiliates of the Sponsor (the Sponsor Related PIPE Investor), pursuant to which the PIPE Investors and Sponsor Related PIPE Investor have subscribed for shares of Spire PubCo common stock (the PIPE Investment). The Sponsor Related PIPE Investor is expected to fund $10,00,000 of the PIPE Investment, for which it will receive 1,000,000 shares of Spire PubCo common stock. The PIPE Investment will be consummated substantially concurrently with the closing of the Business Combination. Administrative Services Agreement We currently utilize office space at 12020 Sunrise Valley Drive, Suite 100, Reston, Virginia 20191 from the Sponsor as our executive offices. Commencing upon consummation of the Public Offering, we pay the Sponsor $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services provided to members of our management team. Upon completion of our initial business combination or our liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Related Party Note and Advances On June 16, 2020, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 to be used, in part, for transaction costs incurred in connection with the Public Offering pursuant to an unsecured promissory note. The promissory note was non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of December 31, 2020 and the completion of the Public Offering. The outstanding balance of $119,156 under the promissory note was paid in full in connection with the closing of the Public Offering. Our officers and directors are entitled to reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses related to identifying, investigating, negotiating and completing an initial business combination. Our audit committee reviews on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to the Sponsor, our officers, directors or its or their affiliates. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required on a non-interest basis. If we complete the business combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that the business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into private placement warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. 51 Such warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. Except as set forth above, the terms of such loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Registration Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, private placement warrants and the Class A common stock underlying such private placement warrants and private placement warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans have registration rights to require us to register a sale of any of our securities held by them pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to our completion of our initial business combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. In connection with the Business Combination, the registration rights agreement will be amended and restated. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES. The following is a summary of fees paid or to be paid to Marcum LLP, or Marcum, for services rendered. Audit Fees . Audit fees consist of fees billed for professional services rendered for the audit of our year-end financial statements and services that are normally provided by Marcum in connection with regulatory filings. The aggregate fees billed by Marcum for professional services rendered for the audit of our annual consolidated financial statements, review of the financial information included in our Forms 10-Q for the respective periods and other required filings with the SEC for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $74,160. The above amounts include interim procedures and audit fees, as well as attendance at audit committee meetings. Audit-Related Fees . Audit-related services consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to performance of the audit or review of our consolidated financial statements and are not reported under Audit Fees. These services include attest services that are not required by statute or regulation and consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards. We did not pay Marcum for consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting standards for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. Tax Fees . We did not pay Marcum for tax planning and tax advice for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. All Other Fees . We did not pay Marcum for other services for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020. Pre-Approval Policy Our audit committee was formed upon the consummation of our Public Offering. As a result, the audit committee did not pre-approve all of the foregoing services, although any services rendered prior to the formation of our audit committee were approved by our board of directors. Since the formation of our audit committee, and on a going-forward basis, the audit committee has and will pre-approve all auditing services and permitted non-audit services to be performed for us by our auditors, including the fees and terms thereof (subject to the de minimis exceptions for non-audit services described in the Exchange Act which are approved by the audit committee prior to the completion of the audit). 52 PART IV Item 15 . Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K: (1) Financial Statements: Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Balance Sheet F-3 Statement of Operations F-4 Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity F-5 Statement of Cash Flows F-6 Notes to Financial Statements F-7 (2) Financial Statement Schedules: None. (3) Exhibits We hereby file as part of this Report the exhibits listed in the attached Exhibit Index. Exhibits which are incorporated herein by reference can be inspected and copied at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such material can also be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates or on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Item 16. Form 10-K Summary None. 53 Exhibit Index Exhibit Number Description 2.1 Business Combination Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2021, by and among the Company, NavSight Merger Sub Inc. and Spire Global, Inc. (3) 3.1 Certificate of Incorporation (2) 3.2 Form of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (2) 3.3 Form of Amended and Restated Bylaws (2) 4.1 Specimen Unit Certificate (2) 4.2 Specimen Class A Common Stock Certificate (2) 4.3 Specimen Warrant Certificate (2) 4.4 Warrant Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC and the Company (1) 4.5 Description of Securities 10.1 Registration Rights Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, among the Company and certain security holders. (1) 10.2 Indemnity Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between the Company and Robert Coleman (1) 10.3 Indemnity Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between the Company and Jack Pearlstein (1) 10.4 Indemnity Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between the Company and Gilman Louie (1) 10.5 Indemnity Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between the Company and William Crowell (1) 10.6 Indemnity Agreement, dated September 9. 2020, between the Company and Henry Crumpton (1) 10.7 Securities Subscription Agreement, dated June 16, 2020, between the Company and Six4 Holdings LLC (2) 10.8 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Six4 Holdings LLC (1) 10.9 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Robert Coleman (1) 10.10 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Jack Pearlstein (1) 10.11 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Gilman Louie (1) 10.12 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and William Crowell (1) 10.13 Letter Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Henry Crumpton (1) 10.14 Investment Management Trust Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC and the Company (1) 10.15 Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and Six4 Holdings LLC (1) 10.16 Administrative Services Agreement, dated September 9, 2020, between the Company and an affiliate of Six4 Holdings LLC (1) 10.17 Promissory Note, dated June 16, 2020, issued to Six4 Holdings LLC (2) 10.18 Form of Voting and Support Agreement (3) 10.19 Form of Voting and Non-Redemption Agreement (3) 54 10.20 Investors Rights Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2021, by and among the Company, the Sponsors and the Target Parties (each as defined in the Investors Rights Agreement (3) 10.21 Form of Subscription Agreement (3) 10.22 Form of Waiver Agreement (3) 14.1 Form of Code of Ethics (2) 31.1* Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 31.2* Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.1* Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.2* Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document * Filed herewith. (1) Incorporated by reference to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission on September 18, 2020 reporting for September 14, 2020. (2) Incorporated by reference to the Companys Amendment No. 2 to Form S-1, filed with the Commission on September 8, 2020. (3) Incorporated by reference to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission on March 1, 2021 55 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. March 29, 2021 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ Robert A. Coleman Name: Robert A. Coleman Title: Chief Executive Officer and Director POWER OF ATTORNEY The undersigned of Navsight Holdings, Inc. hereby constitute and appoint each of Robert A. Coleman and Jack Pearlstein, with the power to act without the others and with full power of substitution and resubstitution, our hue and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent with full power to execute in our name and behalf in the capacities indicated below any and all amendments to this report and to file the same, with all exhibits and other documents relating thereto and hereby ratify and confirm all that such attorney-in-fact, or such attorney-in-facts substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated below. Name Title Date /s/ Robert A. Coleman Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors March 29, 2021 Robert A. Coleman /s/ Jack Pearlstein Chief Financial Officer and Director March 29, 2021 Jack Pearlstein (Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) /s/ William P. Crowell Director March 29, 2021 William P. Crowell /s/ Henry A. Crumpton Director March 29, 2021 Henry A. Crumpton /s/ Gilman Louie Director March 29, 2021 Gilman Louie 56 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Financial Statements: Balance Sheet F-3 Statement of Operations F-4 Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity F-5 Statement of Cash Flows F-6 Notes to Financial Statements F-7 to F-18 F-1 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Navsight Holdings, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Navsight Holdings, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020, the related statements of operations, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial statements). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Explanatory Paragraph Going Concern The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As more fully described in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Companys business plan is dependent on the completion of a business combination and the Companys cash and working capital as of December 31, 2020 are not sufficient to complete its planned activities. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Basis for Opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audit, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ Marcum LLP Marcum LLP We have served as the Companys auditor since 2020 . Melville, NY March 29, 2021 F-2 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. BALANCE SHEET DECEMBER 31, 2020 ASSETS Current Assets Cash $ 1,323,425 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 279,762 Total Current Assets 1,603,187 Marketable securities held in Trust Account 230,007,324 TOTAL ASSETS $ 231,610,511 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 899,254 Accrued offering costs 126,844 Total Current Liabilities 1,026,098 Deferred underwriting payable 8,050,000 Total Liabilities 9,076,098 Commitments Class A common stock subject to possible redemption 21,753,441 shares at redemption value 217,534,410 Stockholders Equity Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value; 100,000,000 shares authorized; 1,246,559 issued and outstanding (excluding 21,753,441 shares subject to possible redemption) 125 Class B common stock, $0.0001 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; 5,750,000 shares issued and outstanding 575 Additional paid-in capital 6,032,945 Accumulated deficit (1,033,642 ) Total Stockholders Equity 5,000,003 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 231,610,511 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-3 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE PERIOD FROM MAY 29, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Formation and operating costs $ 1,040,966 Loss from operations (1,040,966 ) Other income: Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account 7,324 Other income 7,324 Loss before provision for income taxes (1,033,642 ) Net loss $ (1,033,642 ) Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption 21,853,809 Basic and diluted net loss per share, Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption $ 0.00 Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Class A and B Non-redeemable common stock 6,029,089 Basic and diluted net loss per share, Class A and B Non-redeemable common stock $ (0.17 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-4 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY FOR THE PERIOD FROM MAY 29, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Class A Common Stock Class B Common Stock Additional Paid-in Accumulated Total Stockholders Shares Amount Shares Amount Capital Deficit Equity Balance May 29, 2020 (Inception) $ $ $ $ $ Issuance of Class B common stock 5,750,000 575 24,425 25,000 Sale of 23,000,000 Units, net of underwriting discounts 23,000,000 2,300 216,940,755 216,943,055 Sale of 6,600,000 Private Placement Warrants 6,600,000 6,600,000 Class A common stock subject to possible redemption (21,753,441 ) (2,175 ) (217,532,235 ) (217,534,410 ) Net loss (1,033,642 ) (1,033,642 ) Balance December 31, 2020 1,246,559 $ 125 5,750,000 $ 575 $ 6,032,945 $ (1,033,642 ) $ 5,000,003 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-5 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD FROM MAY 29, 2020 (INCEPTION) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2020 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: Net loss $ (1,033,642 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities: Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account (7,324 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Prepaid expenses and other current assets (279,762 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses 899,254 Net cash used in operating activities (421,474 ) Cash Flows from Investing Activities: Investment of cash in Trust Account (230,000,000 ) Net cash used in investing activities (230,000,000 ) Cash Flows from Financing Activities: Proceeds from issuance of Class B common stock to Sponsor 25,000 Proceeds from sale of Units, net of underwriting discounts paid 225,400,000 Proceeds from sale of Private Placement Warrants 6,600,000 Proceeds from promissory note related party 119,156 Repayment of promissory note related party (119,156 ) Payment of offering costs (280,101 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 231,744,899 Net Change in Cash 1,323,425 Cash Beginning of period Cash End of period $ 1,323,425 Non-Cash investing and financing activities: Initial classification of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption $ 218,567,400 Change in value of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption $ (1,032,990 ) Deferred underwriting fee payable $ 8,050,000 Offering costs included in accrued offering costs $ 126,844 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-6 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS NavSight Holdings, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware on May 29, 2020. The Company was formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). Although the Company is not limited to a particular industry or geographic region for purposes of consummating a Business Combination, the Company intends to focus on businesses that provide expertise and technology to U.S. government customers in support of their national security, intelligence, and defense missions. The Company is an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. The Company has one subsidiary, NavSight Merger Sub Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Delaware on February 22, 2021 (Merger Sub ) (see Note 10). As of December 31, 2020, the Company had not commenced any operations. All activity for the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020 relates to the Companys formation, the initial public offering (Initial Public Offering), which is described below, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of Spire Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Spire) (see Note 10). The Company will not generate any operating revenues until after the completion of its initial Business Combination, at the earliest. The Company generates non-operating income in the form of interest income from the proceeds derived from the Initial Public Offering. The registration statement for the Companys Initial Public Offering was declared effective on September 9, 2020. On September 14, 2020, the Company consummated the Initial Public Offering of 23,000,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the shares of Class A common stock included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 3,000,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $230,000,000, which is described in Note 3. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company consummated the sale of 6,600,000 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and, collectively, the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Six4 Holdings, LLC (the Sponsor), generating gross proceeds of $6,600,000, which is described in Note 4. Transaction costs amounted to $13,056,945, consisting of $4,600,000 of underwriting fees, $8,050,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $406,945 of other offering costs. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering on September 14, 2020, an amount of $230,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and a portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account) located in the United States and held as cash or invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting the conditions of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination or (ii) the distribution of the funds in the Trust Account, as described below. The Companys management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. The Companys initial Business Combination must be with one or more target businesses that together have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance in the Trust Account (excluding taxes payable on interest income earned from the Trust Account and the deferred underwriting commissions) at the time of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. The Company will only complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. F-7 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 The Company will provide its holders of the outstanding Public Shares (the public stockholders) with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their Public Shares upon the completion of a Business Combination either (i) in connection with a stockholder meeting called to approve the Business Combination or (ii) by means of a tender offer. The decision as to whether the Company will seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination or conduct a tender offer will be made by the Company, solely in its discretion. The public stockholders will be entitled to redeem their Public Shares for a pro rata portion of the amount then in the Trust Account (initially $ 10.00 per Public Share, plus any pro rata interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the Company to pay its tax obligations). The per-share amount to be distributed to public stockholders who redeem their Public Shares will not be reduced by the deferred underwriting commissions the Company will pay to the underwriter (as discussed in Note 6). There will be no redemption rights upon the completion of a Business Combination with respect to the Companys warrants. The Company will proceed with a Business Combination if the Company has net tangible assets of at least $5,000,001 upon such consummation of a Business Combination and, if the Company seeks stockholder approval, a majority of the shares voted are voted in favor of the Business Combination. If a stockholder vote is not required by law or stock exchange requirements and the Company does not decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons, the Company will, pursuant to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation), conduct the redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and file tender offer documents with the SEC prior to completing a Business Combination. If, however, stockholder approval of the transaction is required by law, or the Company decides to obtain stockholder approval for business or legal reasons, the Company will offer to redeem shares in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules. If the Company seeks stockholder approval in connection with a Business Combination, the Companys Sponsor has agreed to vote their Founder Shares (as defined in Note 5) and any Public Shares purchased during or after the Initial Public Offering in favor of approving a Business Combination. Additionally, each public stockholder may elect to redeem their Public Shares irrespective of whether they vote for or against the proposed transaction. Notwithstanding the above, if the Company seeks stockholder approval of a Business Combination and it does not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a group (as defined under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act)), will be restricted from redeeming its shares with respect to more than an aggregate of 15% or more of the Public Shares, without the prior consent of the Company. The Sponsor has agreed (i) to waive its redemption rights with respect to its Founder Shares and Public Shares held by it in connection with the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) not to propose an amendment to the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of the Companys obligation to redeem 100% of its Public Shares if the Company does not complete a Business Combination, unless the Company provides the public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem their shares in conjunction with any such amendment. The Company will have until September 14, 2022 to consummate a Business Combination (the Combination Period). If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the Company will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to the Company to pay taxes (less up to $100,000 to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the Companys remaining stockholders and the Companys board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to the Companys obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions with respect to the Companys warrants, which will expire worthless if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. The Sponsor has agreed to waive its right to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to the Founder Shares if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. However, if the Sponsor acquires Public Shares in or after the Initial Public Offering, such Public Shares will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account if the Company fails to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period. The underwriter has agreed to waive its rights to the deferred underwriting commission (see Note 6) held in the Trust Account in F-8 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 the event the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and, in such event, such amounts will be included with the other funds held in the Trust Account that will be available to fund the redemption of the Public Shares. In the event of such distribution, it is possible that the per share value of the assets remaining available for distribution will be less than the Initial Public Offering price per Unit ($ 10.00 ). In order to protect the amounts held in the Trust Account, the Sponsor has agreed to be liable to the Company if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold to the Company, or a prospective target business with which the Company has discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amount of funds in the Trust Account to below (i) $10.00 per Public Share or (ii) such lesser amount per Public Share held in the Trust Account as of the date of the liquidation of the Trust Account due to reductions in the value of the trust assets, in each case net of the interest which may be withdrawn to pay taxes, except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the Trust Account and except as to any claims under the Companys indemnity of the underwriter of the Initial Public Offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, the Sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third-party claims. The Company will seek to reduce the possibility that the Sponsor will have to indemnify the Trust Account due to claims of creditors by endeavoring to have all vendors, service providers (other than our independent auditors), prospective target businesses or other entities with which the Company does business, execute agreements with the Companys waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the Trust Account. Liquidity and Going Concern As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $1,323,425 in its operating bank accounts, $230,007,324 in securities held in the Trust Account to be used for a Business Combination or to repurchase or redeem its common stock in connection therewith and working capital of $695,718, which excludes franchise and income taxes payable as such amounts can be paid from the interest earned in the Trust Account. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, the Company will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. The Company will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its Sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. The Companys officers, directors and Sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet the Companys working capital needs. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain additional financing. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. The Company cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern through one year and one day from the date of issuance of these financial statements. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Risks and Uncertainties Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on the Companys financial position, results of its operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of these financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements are presented in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. F-9 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 Emerging Growth Company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or to provide a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Use of Estimates The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Making estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which management considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company did not have any cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020. Marketable Securities Held in Trust Account At December 31, 2020, substantially all of the assets held in the Trust Account were held in money market funds which are invested primarily in U.S. Treasury Securities. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption The Company accounts for its Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. The Companys common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. F-10 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 Income Taxes The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes under ASC 740, Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that included the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts accrued for interest and penalties as of December 31, 2020. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. The Company is subject to income tax examinations by major taxing authorities since inception. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted in response to COVID-19 pandemic. Under ASC 740, the effects of changes in tax rates and laws are recognized in the period which the new legislation is enacted. The CARES Act made various tax law changes including among other things (i) increasing the limitation under Section 163(j) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the IRC) for 2019 and 2020 to permit additional expensing of interest (ii) enacting a technical correction so that qualified improvement property can be immediately expensed under IRC Section 168(k), (iii) making modifications to the federal net operating loss rules including permitting federal net operating losses incurred in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to be carried back to the five preceding taxable years in order to generate a refund of previously paid income taxes and (iv) enhancing the recoverability of alternative minimum tax credits. Given the Companys full valuation allowance position and capitalization of all costs, the CARES Act did not have an impact on the financial statements. Net Loss Per Common Share Net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, excluding shares of common stock subject to forfeiture. The Company has not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase an aggregate of 18,100,000 shares in the calculation of diluted loss per share, since the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events and the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. The Companys statement of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per share for common shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted, for Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income or loss on marketable securities held by the Trust Account, net of applicable franchise and income taxes, by the weighted average number of Common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted, for Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income or loss on marketable securities attributable to Common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption outstanding for the period. Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption includes Founder Shares and non-redeemable shares of common stock as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable common stock participates in the income or loss on marketable securities based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. F-11 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 The following table reflects the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share (in dollars, except per share amounts): For the Period from May 29, 2020 (Inception) Through December 31, 2020 Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption Numerator: Earnings allocable to Common stock subject to possible redemption Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account $ 7,324 Less: interest available to be withdrawn for payment of taxes (7,324 ) Net income $ Denominator: Weighted Average Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 21,853,809 Basic and diluted net income per share $ 0.00 Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption Numerator: Net Loss minus Net Earnings Net loss $ (1,033,642 ) Net income allocable to Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption Non-Redeemable Net Loss $ (1,033,642 ) Denominator: Weighted Average Non-Redeemable Common Stock Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption 6,029,089 Basic and diluted net loss per share, Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption $ (0.17 ) Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of a cash account in a financial institution, which, at times, may exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage of $250,000. The Company has not experienced losses on this account. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the balance sheet, primarily due to their short-term nature. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. NOTE 3. PUBLIC OFFERING Pursuant to the Initial Public Offering, the Company sold 23,000,000 Units, which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its option to purchase an additional 3,000,000 Units, at a purchase price of $10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one redeemable warrant ("Public Warrant"). Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 7). F-12 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 NOTE 4. PRIVATE PLACEMENT Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 6,600,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant for an aggregate purchase price of $6,600,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share. The proceeds from the Private Placement Warrants were added to the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the proceeds of the sale of the Private Placement Warrants will be used to fund the redemption of the Public Shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law) and the Private Placement Warrants will expire worthless. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to the Private Placement Warrants. NOTE 5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Founder Shares On June 16, 2020, the Sponsor purchased 5,750,000 shares of the Companys Class B common stock (the Founder Shares) for an aggregate price of $25,000. The Founder Shares included an aggregate of up to 750,000 shares subject to forfeiture to the extent that the underwriters over-allotment option was not exercised in full or in part, so that the Sponsor would own, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares after the Initial Public Offering. As a result of the underwriters election to fully exercise its over-allotment option, 750,000 Founder Shares are no longer subject to forfeiture. The Sponsor has agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of its Founder Shares until the earlier to occur of: (A) one year after the completion of a Business Combination or (B) subsequent to a Business Combination, (x) if the last reported sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after a Business Combination, or (y) the date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange or other similar transaction that results in all of the Companys stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. Administrative Support Agreement The Company entered into an agreement, commencing on September 9, 2020 through the earlier of the Company's consummation of a Business Combination and its liquidation, to pay the Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, and administrative support services. For the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, the Company incurred and paid $40,000 in fees for these services. Promissory Note Related Party On June 16, 2020, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company an aggregate of up to $300,000 to cover expenses related to the Initial Public Offering pursuant to a promissory note (the Promissory Note). The Promissory Note was non-interest bearing and payable on the earlier of January 31, 2021 or the completion of the Initial Public Offering. On September 16, 2020, the Company paid the outstanding balance due of $119,156 under the Promissory Note. Related Party Loans In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, or the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. F-13 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 NOTE 6. COMMITMENTS Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into on September 9, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights. The holders of these securities will be entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. However, the registration rights agreement provides that the Company will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lockup period. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement The underwriter is entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $8,050,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will be waived by the underwriter in the event that the Company does not complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. NOTE 7. STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Preferred Stock The Company is authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share with such designations, voting and other rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Companys board of directors. At December 31, 2020, there were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. Class A Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of Class A common stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote for each share. At December 31, 2020, there were 1,246,559 shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding, excluding 21,753,441 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption Class B Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of Class B common stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of Class B common stock are entitled to one vote for each share. At December 31, 2020, there were 5,750,000 shares of Class B common stock issued and outstanding. Holders of Class B common stock will have the right to elect all of the Companys directors prior to a Business Combination. Holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock will vote together as a single class on all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders except as required by law. The shares of Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock on the first business day following the completion of a Business Combination at a ratio such that the number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of all Founder shares will equal, in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the sum of (i) the total number of shares of the Companys common stock issued and outstanding upon completion of Initial Public Offering, plus (ii) the sum of (a) all shares of the Companys common stock issued or deemed issued or issuable upon conversion or exercise of any equity-linked securities or deemed issued by the Company in connection with or in relation to the completion of a Business Combination, excluding (1) any shares of Class A common stock or equity-linked securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of Class A common stock issued, or to be issued, to any seller in a Business Combination and any (2) Private Placement Warrants issued to the Sponsor or any of its affiliates upon conversion of Working Capital Loans minus (b) the number of Public Shares redeemed by public stockholders in connection with a Business Combination. Warrants Public Warrants may only be exercised for a whole number of shares. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the Units and only whole warrants will trade. The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of (a) 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination or (b) 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The Public Warrants will expire five years after the completion of a Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Class A common stock pursuant to the exercise of a warrant and will have no obligation to settle such warrant exercise unless a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect F-14 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 to the shares of Class A common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and a prospectus relating thereto is current, subject to the Company satisfying its obligations with respect to registration, or a valid exemption from registration is available. No warrant will be exercisable and the Company will not be obligated to issue shares of Class A common stock upon exercise of a warrant unless the share of Class A common stock issuable upon such warrant exercise has been registered, qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the registered holder of the warrants. The Company has agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 20 business days after the closing of a Business Combination, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to file with the SEC a registration statement for the registration, under the Securities Act, of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the same to become effective and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration or redemption of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. If a registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not effective by the 60th business day after the closing of a Business Combination, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any period when the Company will have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act or another exemption. In addition, if the Class A common stock are at the time of any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that they satisfy the definition of a covered security under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, the Company may, at its option, require holders of the Public Warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event the Company elects to do so, the Company will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but it will use its best efforts to register or qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available. Redemption of warrants when the price per share of Class A common stock equals or exceeds $18.00. Once the Public Warrants become exercisable, the Company may redeem the Public Warrants (except with respect to the Private Placement Warrants): in whole and not in part; at a price of $0.01 per warrant; upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; and if, and only if, the reported last reported sale price of the Class A common stock for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before the Company sends the notice of redemption to the warrant holders (the Reference Value) equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like). If and when the warrants become redeemable by the Company, the Company may exercise its redemption right even if it is unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of warrants when the price per share of Class A common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 . Once the Public Warrants become exercisable, the Company may redeem the Public Warrants: in whole and not in part; at $0.10 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption provided that holders will be able to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis prior to redemption and receive that number of shares based on the redemption date and the fair market value of the Class A common stock; if, and only if, the Reference Value equals or exceeds $10.00 per share (as adjusted); and if the Reference Value is less than $18.00 per share (as adjusted), the Private Placement Warrants must also be concurrently called for redemption on the same terms as the outstanding Public Warrants, as described above. If and when the Public Warrants become redeemable by the Company, the Company may exercise its redemption right even if it is unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. F-15 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 If the Company calls the Public Warrants for redemption, management will have the option to require all holders that wish to exercise the Public Warrants to do so on a cashless basis, as described in the warrant agreement. The exercise price and number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances including in the event of a stock dividend, or recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. However, except as described below, the warrants will not be adjusted for issuances of Class A common stock at a price below its exercise price. Additionally, in no event will the Company be required to net cash settle the warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of warrants will not receive any of such funds with respect to their warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Companys assets held outside of the Trust Account with the respect to such warrants. Accordingly, the warrants may expire worthless. In addition, if (x) the Company issues additional shares of Class A common stock or equity-linked securities for capital raising purposes in connection with the closing of a Business Combination at an issue price or effective issue price of less than $9.20 per Class A common stock (with such issue price or effective issue price to be determined in good faith by the Companys board of directors and, in the case of any such issuance to the Sponsor or its affiliates, without taking into account any Founder Shares held by the Sponsor or such affiliates, as applicable, prior to such issuance) (the Newly Issued Price), (y) the aggregate gross proceeds from such issuances represent more than 60% of the total equity proceeds, and interest thereon, available for the funding of a Business Combination on the date of the consummation of a Business Combination (net of redemptions), and (z) the volume weighted average trading price of the Companys Class A common stock during the 20 trading day period starting on the trading day prior to the day on which the Company consummates a Business Combination (such price, the Market Value) is below $9.20 per share, the exercise price of the Public Warrants will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 115% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, the $18.00 per share redemption trigger price described above will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 180% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, and the $10.00 per share redemption trigger price described above will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price. The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering, except that the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Placement Warrants will not be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additionally, the Private Placement Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis and be non-redeemable so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees. If the Private Placement Warrants are held by someone other than the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by the Company and exercisable by such holders on the same basis as the Public Warrants. NOTE 8. INCOME TAX The Companys net deferred tax assets is as follows: December 31, 2020 Deferred tax assets Start-up Costs $ 193,691 Net operating loss carryforward 23,374 Total deferred tax assets 217,065 Valuation Allowance (217,065 ) Deferred tax assets, net of allowance $ F-16 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 The income tax provision consists of the following: For the Period from May 29, 2020 (Inception) Through December 31, 2020 Federal Current $ Deferred (217,065 ) State and Local Current Deferred Change in valuation allowance 217,065 Income tax provision $ As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $111,305 of U.S. federal net operating loss carryovers available to offset future taxable income which have an indefinite life. In assessing the realization of the deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion of all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences representing net future deductible amounts become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. After consideration of all of the information available, management believes that significant uncertainty exists with respect to future realization of the deferred tax assets and has therefore established a full valuation allowance. For the period from May 29, 2020 (inception) through December 31, 2020, the change in the valuation allowance was $ 217,065 . A reconciliation of the federal income tax rate to the Companys effective tax rate is as follows: December 31, 2020 Statutory federal income tax rate 21.0 % State taxes, net of federal tax benefit 0.0 % Valuation allowance (21.0 )% Income tax provision 0.0 % The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and is subject to examination by the various taxing authorities. The Company's tax returns since inception remain open to examination by the taxing authorities. The Company considers Virginia to be a significant state tax jurisdiction. NOTE 9. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Company follows the guidance in ASC 820 for its financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at each reporting period, and non-financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at least annually. The fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities reflects managements estimate of amounts that the Company would have received in connection with the sale of the assets or paid in connection with the transfer of the liabilities in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In connection with measuring the fair value of its assets and liabilities, the Company seeks to maximize the use of observable inputs (market data obtained from independent F-17 NAVSIGHT HOLDINGS, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2020 sources) and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs (internal assumptions about how market participants would price assets and liabilities). The following fair value hierarchy is used to classify assets and liabilities based on the observable inputs and unobservable inputs used in order to value the assets and liabilities: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market for an asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs. Examples of Level 2 inputs include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities and quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. Level 3: Unobservable inputs based on our assessment of the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. The following table presents information about the Companys assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2020, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation inputs the Company utilized to determine such fair value: Description Level December 31, 2020 Assets: Marketable securities held in Trust Account 1 $ 230,007,324 NOTE 10. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The Company evaluated subsequent events and transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date up to the date that the financial statements were issued. Based upon this review, other than as described below, the Company did not identify any subsequent events that would have required adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements. On February 28, 2021, the Company entered into a Business Combination Agreement (the Transaction Agreement) by and among the Company, Merger Sub, Spire, and certain of Spires stockholders (the Founders). Merger Sub will be merged with and into Spire (the Merger and together with the other transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement, the Transactions), with Spire surviving the Merger. As a result of the Transactions, as further described below, it is expected that the equityholders of Spire, as of immediately prior to the Merger, will hold approximately 60.8% of the fully diluted outstanding equity interests of the Company. At the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the Company, Merger Sub, Spire or the holders of any of Spires securities, each share of outstanding capital stock of Spire (the Company Capital Stock) will be canceled and converted into (i) the right to receive at Closing the number of shares of the Company Class A Common Stock (the Company Class A Common Stock) based on the pro rata portion applicable to such share of Company Capital Stock, of an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion, and (ii) the contingent earn-out right to receive a pro rata portion of up to 8,000,000 shares of the Company Class A Common Stock in the aggregate based on the achievement of certain trading price targets following the Closing, which amount of earn-out shares will be adjusted based on a formula set forth in the Transaction Agreement to reflect a portion of the value of such earn-out shares allocated to holders of Company options assumed by the Company in the Merger. The Transaction Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of the parties, thereto and the closing is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Transaction Agreement. F-18 EX-4.5 2 nshu-ex45_287.htm EX-4.5 nshu-ex45_287.htm Exhibit 4.5 Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 As of December 31, 2020, NavSight Holdings, Inc. (we, our, us or the Company) had the following three classes of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act): (i) its Class A common stock, $0.0001 par value per share (Class A common stock), (ii) its warrants, exercisable for one share of class A common stock for $11.50 per share, and (iii) its units, consisting of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one warrant to purchase one share of Class A common stock. The following summary includes a brief description of such securities as well as a description of the Companys Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Class B common stock or founder shares), which is not registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act but is convertible into shares of Class A common stock. The description of the Class B common stock is necessary to understand the material terms of the Class A common stock. References to our sponsor refer to Six4 Holdings, LLC. The following also summarizes certain provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the DGCL) and is subject to and qualified in its entirely by reference to the DGCL. General Pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation (the Certificate of Incorporation) we are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our Class B common stock, as well as 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.0001 par value each. Units Each unit consists of one share of our Class A common stock and one-half of one warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one share of our Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to an adjustment. Pursuant to the warrant agreement, a warrant holder may exercise its warrants only for a whole number of the shares of the Companys Class A common stock. This means only a whole warrant may be exercised at any given time by a warrant holder. No fractional warrants have been issued upon separation of the units and only whole warrants are traded. Additionally, the units will automatically separate into their component parts and will not be traded after completion of our initial business combination. Common Stock Stockholders of record are entitled to one vote for each share held on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. Prior to our initial business combination, only holders of our founder shares will have the right to vote on the appointment of directors. Holders of our public shares will not be entitled to vote on the appointment of directors during such time. In addition, prior to the completion of an initial business combination, holders of a majority of our founder shares may remove a member of the board of directors for any reason. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation may only be amended by approval of a majority of at least 90% of our Class B common stock voting in an annual meeting. With respect to any other matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including any vote in connection with our initial business combination, except as required by law, holders of our founder shares and holders of our public shares will vote together as a single class, with each share entitling the holder to one vote. Unless specified in our Certification of Incorporation, or as required by applicable provisions of the DGCL or applicable stock exchange rules, the affirmative vote of a majority of our shares of common stock that are voted is required to approve any such matter voted on by our stockholders. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. There is no cumulative voting with respect to the election of directors, with the result that the holders of more than 50% of the shares voted for the election of directors can elect all of the directors. Our stockholders are entitled to receive ratable dividends when, as and if declared by the board of direc tors out of funds legally available therefor. Because our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock, if we were to enter into a business combination, we may (depending on the terms of such a business combination) be required to increase the number of shares of our Class A common stock which we will be authorized to issue at the same time as our stockholders vote on the business combination to the extent we seek stockholder approval in connection with our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes with only one class of directors being elected in each year and each class (except for those directors appointed prior to our first annual meeting of stockholders) serving a three-year term. In accordance with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) corporate governance requirements, we are not required to hold an annual meeting until one year after our first fiscal year end following our listing on the NYSE. Under Section 211(b) of the DGCL, we are, however, required to hold annual meetings of stockholders for the purpose of electing directors in accordance with our amended and restated bylaws, unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the completion of our initial business combination, and thus we may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the DGCL, which requires an annual meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to the completion of an initial business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the DGCL. Prior to the completion of an initial business combination, any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled by a nominee chosen by holders of a majority of our founder shares. In addition, prior to the completion of an initial business combination, holders of a majority of our founder shares may remove a member of the board of directors for any reason. We will provide our public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their public shares upon the completion of our initial business combination at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account calculated as of two business days prior to the completion of our initial business combination, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, subject to the limitations described herein. The amount in the trust account is initially anticipated to be $10.00 per public share. The per-share amount we will distribute to investors who properly redeem their shares will not be reduced by the deferred underwriting commissions we will pay to the underwriters. The redemption rights will include the requirement that a beneficial owner must identify itself in order to validly redeem its shares. Our sponsor and each member of our management team have entered into a letter agreement with us, pursuant to which they have agreed to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and public shares in connection with (i) the completion of our initial business combination and (ii) a stockholder vote to approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to allow redemption in connection with our initial business combination or to redeem 100% of our public shares if we have not completed an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO. Unlike many blank check companies that hold stockholder votes and conduct proxy solicitations in conjunction with their initial business combinations and provide for related redemptions of public shares for cash upon completion of such initial business combinations even when a vote is not required by law, if a stockholder vote is not required by law and we do not decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons, we will, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, conduct the redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules of the SEC and file tender offer documents with the SEC prior to completing our initial business combination. Our Certificate of Incorporation require these tender offer documents to contain substantially the same financial and other information about the initial business combination and the redemption rights as is required under the SECs proxy rules. If, however, a stockholder approval of the transaction is required by law, or we decide to obtain stockholder approval for business or other legal reasons, we will, like many blank check companies, offer to redeem shares in conjunction with a proxy solicitation pursuant to the proxy rules and not pursuant to the tender offer rules. If we seek stockholder approval, we will complete our initial business combination only if a majority of the shares of common stock voted are voted in favor of our initial business combination. However, the participation of our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates in privately-negotiated transactions (as described in the initial public offering (IPO) prospectus), if any, could result in the approval of our initial business combination even if a majority of our public stockholders vote, or indicate their intention to vote, against such initial business combination. For purposes of seeking approval of the majority of our outstanding common stock, non-votes will have no effect on the approval of our initial business combination once a quorum is obtained. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination ande do not conduct redemptions in connection with our initial business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, our Certificate of Incorporation provides that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a group (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from redeeming more than an aggregate of 15% of the shares sold in the IPO, which we refer to as the Excess Shares.. However, we would not be restricting our stockholders ability to vote all of their shares (including Excess Shares) for or against our initial business combination. Our stockholders inability to redeem the Excess Shares will reduce their influence over our ability to complete our initial business combination, and such stockholders could suffer a material loss in their investment if they sell such Excess Shares on the open market. Additionally, such stockholders will not receive redemption distributions with respect to the Excess Shares if we complete our initial business combination. And, as a result, such stockholders will continue to hold that number of shares exceeding 15% and, in order to dispose such shares would be required to sell their shares in open market transactions, potentially at a loss. If we seek stockholder approval in connection with our initial business combination, pursuant to the terms of a letter agreement entered into with us, our sponsor and each member of our management team agreed to vote their founder shares and any public shares purchased from the time of the IPO, in favor of our initial business combination. As a result, in addition to our initial stockholders founder shares, we would need 7,500,001, or 37.5%, of the 20,000,000 public shares sold in in the IPO to be voted in favor of an initial business combination in order to have our initial business combination approved (assuming all issued and outstanding shares are voted and the over-allotment option is not exercised). The other members of our management team have entered into a letter agreement similar to the one entered into by our sponsor with respect to any public shares acquired by them from the time of the IPO. Additionally, each public stockholder may elect to redeem its public shares irrespective of whether they vote for or against the proposed transaction. Pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, if we have not completed an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than ten business days thereafter subject to lawfully available funds therefor, redeem the public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law; and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Our sponsor and members of our management team have entered into letter agreements with us, pursuant to which they have agreed to waive their rights to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to their founder shares if we do not complete an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO. However, if our sponsor or members of our management team acquire public shares from the time of the IPO, they will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to such public shares if we do not complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time period. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the company after a business combination, our stockholders are entitled to share ratably in all assets remaining available for distribution to them after payment of liabilities and after provision is made for each class of shares, if any, having preference over the common stock. Our stockholders have no preemptive or other subscription rights. There are no sinking fund provisions applicable to the common stock, except that we will provide our public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem their public shares for cash at a per share price equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, upon the completion of our initial business combination, subject to the limitations described herein. Founder Shares The founder shares are designated as Class B common stock and, except as described below, are identical to the shares of our Class A common stock included in the units sold in the IPO, and holders of founder shares have the same stockholder rights as public stockholders, except that (i) the founder shares are subject to certain transfer restrictions, as described in more detail below, (ii) our sponsor, officers and directors have entered into letter agreements with us, pursuant to which they have agreed (A) to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and public shares in connection with the completion of our initial business combination, (B) to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and public shares in connection with a stockholder vote to approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to allow redemption in connection with our initial business combination or to redeem 100% of our public shares if we have not completed an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO or with respect to any other provisions relating to stockholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity and (C) to waive their rights to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to its founder shares if we do not complete an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO, although it will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to any public shares it holds if we do not complete our initial business combination within such time period, (iii) the founder shares will automatically convert into Class A common stock on the first business day following the completion of our initial business combination as described herein and in our Certificate of Incorporation, and (iv) prior to the completion of our initial business combination, only our founder shares will have the right to vote on the election of our directors. If we submit our initial business combination to our public stockholders for a vote, our initial stockholders and each member of our management team have agreed to vote their founder shares and any public shares purchased from the time of the IPO in favor of our initial business combination. The founder shares will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock on the first business day following the completion of our initial business combination at a ratio such that the number of shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of all founder shares will equal, in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the sum of (i) the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding from the time of the IPO, plus (ii) the sum of (a) all shares of our common stock issued or deemed issued or issuable upon conversion or exercise of any equity-linked securities or deemed issued by the Company in connection with or in relation to the completion of the initial business combination, excluding (1) any shares of our Class A common stock or equity-linked securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our Class A common stock issued, or to be issued, to any seller in the initial business combination and any (2) private placement warrants issued to our sponsor or any of its affiliates upon conversion of working capital loans minus (b) the number of public shares redeemed by public stockholders in connection with our initial business combination. In no event will the shares of our Class B common stock convert into shares of our Class A common stock at a rate of less than one to one. Except as described herein, our sponsors and our directors and executive officers have agreed not to transfer, assign or sell any of their founder shares until (a) one year after the completion of our initial business combination, or (b) the date on which we complete a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange or other similar transaction after our initial business combination that results in all of our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of our Class A common stock for cash, securities or other property. Any permitted transferees will be subject to the same restrictions and other agreements of our initial stockholders with respect to any founder shares. We refer to such transfer restrictions as the lock-up. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the last reported sale price of the shares of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock capitalizations, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after our initial business combination, the converted Class A common stock will be released from the lock-up. Prior to our initial business combination, only holders of our founder shares will have the right to vote on the appointment of directors. Holders of our public shares will not be entitled to vote on the appointment of directors during such time. In addition, prior to the completion of an initial business combination, holders of a majority of our founder shares may remove a member of the board of directors for any reason. These provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation may only be amended by approval of a majority of at least 90% of our Class B common stock voting in an annual meeting. With respect to any other matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including any vote in connection with our initial business combination, except as required b y law, holders of our founder shares and holders of our public shares will vote together as a single class, with each share entitling the holder to one vote. Preferred Stock Our Certificate of Incorporation will authorize 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and provide that shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series. Our board of directors will be authorized to fix the voting rights, if any, designations, powers, preferences, the relative, participating, optional or other special rights and any qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, applicable to the shares of each series. Our board of directors will be able to, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with voting and other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of the common stock and could have anti-takeover effects. The ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us or the removal of existing management. We have no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding at the date hereof. Although we do not currently intend to issue any shares of preferred stock, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. Warrants Public Stockholders Warrants Each whole warrant entitles the registered holder to purchase one share of our Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment as discussed below, at any time commencing on the later of one year from the time of the IPO and 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination, provided in each case that we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available (or we permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis under the circumstances specified in the warrant agreement) and such shares are registered, qualified or exempt from registration under the securities, or blue sky, laws of the state of residence of the holder. Pursuant to the warrant agreement, a warrant holder may exercise its warrants only for a whole number of shares of our Class A common stock. This means only a whole warrant may be exercised at a given time by a warrant holder. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the units and only whole warrants will trade. Accordingly, unless you purchase at least three units, you will not be able to receive or trade a whole warrant. The warrants will expire five years after the completion of our initial business combination, at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. We will not be obligated to deliver any Class A common stock pursuant to the exercise of a warrant and will have no obligation to settle such warrant exercise unless a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to the shares of our Class A common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and a prospectus relating thereto is current, subject to our satisfying our obligations described below with respect to registration, or a valid exemption from registration is available. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue a share of our Class A common stock upon exercise of a warrant unless the share of our Class A common stock issuable upon such warrant exercise has been registered, qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the registered holder of the warrants. In the event that the conditions in the two immediately preceding sentences are not satisfied with respect to a warrant, the holder of such warrant will not be entitled to exercise such warrant and such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. In no event will we be required to net cash settle any warrant. In the event that a registration statement is not effective for the exercised warrants, the purchaser of a unit containing such warrant will have paid the full purchase price for the unit solely for the share of our Class A common stock underlying such unit. We have agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than twenty business days after the closing of our initial business combination, we will use our commercially reasonable efforts to file with the SEC a registration statement for the registration, under the Securities Act, of the shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. We will use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause the same to become effective and to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement, and a current prospectus relating thereto, until the expiration or redemption of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. If a registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not effective by the 60th business day after the closing of the initial business combination, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any pe riod when we will have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act or another exemption. In addition, if our Class A common stock are at the time o f any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that they satisfy the definition of a covered security under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, we may, at our option, require holders of our public warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event we elect to do so, we will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but we will use our best efforts to register or qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available. In such event, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering each such warrant for that number of shares of our Class A common stock equal to the lesser of (A) the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of our Class A common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied the excess of the fair market value less the exercise price of the warrants by (y) the fair ma rket value and (B) 0.361. The fair market value shall mean the volume weighted average price of the shares of our Class A common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date on which the notice of exercise is received by the warrant agent. Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $18.00 Once the warrants become exercisable, we may redeem the outstanding warrants (except as described herein with respect to the private placement warrants): in whole and not in part; at a price of $0.01 per warrant; upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; and if, and only if, the last reported sale price of the shares of our Class A common stock for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before we send to the notice of redemption to the warrant holders (which we refer to as the Reference Value) equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like). If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. However, we will not redeem the warrants unless an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is effective and a current prospectus relating to those shares of our Class A common stock is available throughout the 30-day redemption period. We have established the last of the redemption criterion discussed above to prevent a redemption call unless there is at the time of the call a significant premium to the warrant exercise price. If the foregoing conditions are satisfied and we issue a notice of redemption of the warrants, each warrant holder will be entitled to exercise his, her or its warrant prior to the scheduled redemption date. Any such exercise would not be done on a cashless basis and would require the exercising warrant holder to pay the exercise price for each warrant being exercised. However, the price of the shares of our Class A common stock may fall below the $18.00 redemption trigger price (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) as well as the $11.50 (for whole shares) warrant exercise price after the redemption notice is issued. Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $10.00 Once the warrants become exercisable, we may redeem the outstanding warrants: in whole and not in part; at $0.10 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption; provided that holders will be able to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis prior to redemption and receive that number of shares determined by reference to the table below, based on the redemption date and the fair market value of our Class A common stock (as defined below); if, and only if, the Reference Value (as defined above under Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $18.00) equals or exceeds $10.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like); and if the Reference Value is less than $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) the private placement warrants must also be concurrently called for redemption on the same terms (except as described above with respect to a holders ability to cashless exercise its warrants) as the outstanding public warrants, as described above. The numbers in the table below represent the number of shares of our Class A common stock that a warrant holder will receive upon exercise in connection with a redemption by us pursuant to this redemption feature, based on the fair market value of our Class A common stock on the corresponding redemption date (assuming holders elect to exercise their warrants and such warrants are not redeemed for $0.10 per warrant), determined based on volume-weighted average price of our Class A common stock as reported during the 10 trading days immediately following the date on which the notice of redemption is sent to the holders of warrants, and the number of months that the corresponding redemption date precedes the expiration date of the warrants, each as set forth in the table below. We will provide our warrant holders with the final fair market value no later than one business day after the 10-trading day period described above ends. Pursuant to the warrant agreement, references above to shares of our Class A common stock shall include a security other than shares of our Class A common stock into which the shares of our Class A common stock have been converted or exchanged for in the event we are not the surviving company in our initial business combination. The numbers in the table below will not be adjusted when determining the number of shares of our Class A common stock to be issued upon exercise of the warrants if we are not the surviving entity following our initial business combination. The stock prices set forth in the column headings of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the number of shares issuable upon exercise of a warrant or the exercise price of the warrant is adjusted as set forth under the heading - Anti-dilution Adjustments below. If the number of shares issuable upon exercise of a warrant is adjusted, the adjusted stock prices in the column headings will equal the stock prices immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the exercise price of the warrant after such adjustment and the denominator of which is the price of the warrant immediately prior to such adjustment. In such an event, the number of shares in the table below shall be adjusted by multiplying such share amounts by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares deliverable upon exercise of a warrant immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the number of shares deliverable upon exercise of a warrant as so adjusted. If the exercise price of the warrant is adjusted, as a result of raising capital in connection with the initial business combination, the adjusted stock prices in the column headings will by multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price as set forth under the heading - Anti-dilution Adjustments and the denominator of which is $10.00. Fair Market Value of Our Class A Common stock Redemption Date (period to expiration of warrants) $10.00 $11.00 $12.00 $13.00 $14.00 $15.00 $16.00 $17.00 $18.00 60 months 0.261 0.281 0.297 0.311 0.324 0.337 0.348 0.358 0.361 57 months 0.257 0.277 0.294 0.310 0.324 0.337 0.348 0.358 0.361 54 months 0.252 0.272 0.291 0.307 0.322 0.335 0.347 0.357 0.361 51 months 0.246 0.268 0.287 0.304 0.320 0.333 0.346 0.357 0.361 48 months 0.241 0.263 0.283 0.301 0.317 0.332 0.344 0.356 0.361 45 months 0.235 0.258 0.279 0.298 0.315 0.330 0.343 0.356 0.361 42 months 0.228 0.252 0.274 0.294 0.312 0.328 0.342 0.355 0.361 39 months 0.221 0.246 0.269 0.290 0.309 0.325 0.340 0.354 0.361 36 months 0.213 0.239 0.263 0.285 0.305 0.323 0.339 0.353 0.361 33 months 0.205 0.232 0.257 0.280 0.301 0.320 0.337 0.352 0.361 30 months 0.196 0.224 0.250 0.274 0.297 0.316 0.335 0.351 0.361 27 months 0.185 0.214 0.242 0.268 0.291 0.313 0.332 0.350 0.361 24 months 0.173 0.204 0.233 0.260 0.285 0.308 0.329 0.348 0.361 21 months 0.161 0.193 0.223 0.252 0.279 0.304 0.326 0.347 0.361 18 months 0.146 0.179 0.211 0.242 0.271 0.298 0.322 0.345 0.361 15 months 0.130 0.164 0.197 0.230 0.262 0.291 0.317 0.342 0.361 12 months 0.111 0.146 0.181 0.216 0.250 0.282 0.312 0.339 0.361 9 months 0.090 0.125 0.162 0.199 0.237 0.272 0.305 0.336 0.361 6 months 0.065 0.099 0.137 0.178 0.219 0.259 0.296 0.331 0.361 3 months 0.034 0.065 0.104 0.150 0.197 0.243 0.286 0.326 0.361 0 months - - 0.042 0.115 0.179 0.233 0.281 0.323 0.361 The exact fair market value and redemption date may not be set forth in the table above, in which case, if the fair market value is between two values in the table or the redemption date is between two redemption dates in the table, the number of shares of our Class A common stock to be issued for each warrant exercised will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of shares set forth for the higher and lower fair market values and the earlier and later redemption dates, as applicable, based on a 365 or 366-day year, as applicable. For example, if the volume-weighted average price of our Class A common stock as reported during the 10 trading days immediately following the date on which the notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants is $11.00 per share, and at such time there are 57 months until the expiration of the warrants, holders may choose to, in connection with this redemption feature, exercise their warrants for 0.277 Class A common stock for each whole warrant. For an example where the exact fair market value and redemption date are not as set forth in the table above, if the volume-weighted average price of our Class A common stock as reported during the 10 trading days immediately following the date on which the notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants is $13.50 per share, and at such time there are 38 months until the expiration of the warrants, holders may choose to, in connection with this redemption feature, exercise their warrants for 0.298 Class A common stock for each whole warrant. In no event will the warrants be exercisable in connection with this redemption feature for more than 0.361 Class A common stock per warrant (subject to adjustment). This redemption feature differs from the typical warrant redemption features used in many other blank check offerings, which typically only provide for a redemption of warrants for cash (other than the private placement warrants) when the trading price for the shares of our Class A common stock exceeds $18.00 per share for a specified period of time. This redemption feature is structured to allow for all of the outstanding warrants to be redeemed when the shares of our Class A common stock are trading at or above $10.00 per share, which may be at a time when the trading price of our the shares of Class A common stock is below the exercise price of the warrants. We have established this redemption feature to provide us with the flexibility to redeem the warrants without the warrants having to reach the $18.00 per share threshold set forth above under - Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $18.00. Holders choosing to exercise their warrants in connection with a redemption pursuant to this feature will, in effect, receive a number of shares for their warrants based on an option pricing model with a fixed volatility input as of the date the IPO. This redemption right provides us with an additional mechanism by which to redeem all of the outstanding warrants, and therefore have certainty as to our capital structure as the warrants would no longer be outstanding and would have been exercised or redeemed. We will be required to pay the applicable redemption price to warrant holders if we choose to exercise this redemption right and it will allow us to quickly proceed with a redemption of the warrants if we determine it is in our best interest to do so. As such, we would redeem the warrants in this manner when we believe it is in our best interest to update our capital structure to remove the warrants and pay the redemption price to the warrant holders. As stated above, we can redeem the warrants when the shares of our Class A common stock are trading at a price starting at $10.00, which is below the exercise price of $11.50, because it will provide certainty with respect to our capital structure and cash position while providing warrant holders with the opportunity to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis for the applicable number of shares. If we choose to redeem the warrants when the shares of our Class A common stock are trading at a price below the exercise price of the warrants, this could result in the warrant holders receiving fewer Class A common st ock than they would have received if they had chosen to wait to exercise their warrants for Class A common stock if and when such Class A common stock were trading at a price higher than the exercise price of $11.50. No fractional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued upon exercise. If, upon exercise, a holder would be entitled to receive a fractional interest in a share, we will round down to the nearest whole number of the number of shares of our Class A common stock to be issued to the holder. If, at the time of redemption, the warrants are exercisable for a security other than the shares of our Class A common stock pursuant to the warrant agreement (for instance, if we are not the surviving company in our initial business combination), the warrants may be exercised for such security. At such time as the warrants become exercisable for a security other than the shares of our Class A common stock, the Company (or surviving company) will use its commercially reasonable efforts to register under the Securities Act the security issuable upon the exercise of the warrants. Redemption Procedures. A holder of a warrant may notify us in writing in the event it elects to be subject to a requirement that such holder will not have the right to exercise such warrant, to the extent that after giving effect to such exercise, such person (together with such persons affiliates), to the warrant agents actual knowledge, would beneficially own in excess of 4.9% or 9.8% (as specified by the holder) of the shares of our Class A common stock issued and outstanding immediately after giving effect to such exercise. Anti-dilution Adjustments. If the number of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock is increased by a stock capitalization or stock dividend payable in shares of our Class A common stock, or by a split-up of common stock or other similar event, then, on the effective date of such stock capitalization or stock dividend, split-up or similar event, the number of shares of our Class A common stock issuable on exercise of each warrant will be increased in proportion to such increase in the outstanding shares of common stock. A rights offering to holders of common stock entitling holders to purchase Class A common stock at a price less than the historical fair market value (as defined below) will be deemed a stock dividend of a number of shares of our Class A common stock equal to the product of (i) the number of shares of our Class A common stock actually sold in such rights offering (or issuable under any other equity securities sold in such rights offering that are convertible into or exercisable for Class A common stock) and (ii) one minus the quotient of (x) the price per share of our Class A common stock paid in such rights offering and (y) the historical fair market value. For these purposes, (i) if the rights offering is for securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our Class A common stock, in determining the price payable for Class A common stock, there will be taken into account any consideration received for such rights, as well as any additional amount payable upon exercise or conversion and (ii) historical fair market value means the volume-weighted average price of shares of our Class A common stock as reported during the 10 trading day period ending on the trading day prior to the first date on which the shares of our Class A common stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such rights. In addition, if we, at any time while the warrants are outstanding and unexpired, pay a dividend or make a distribution in cash, securities or other assets to the holders of shares of our Class A common stock on account of such Class A common stock (or other securities into which the warrants are convertible), other than (a) as described above, (b) any cash dividends or cash distributions which, when combined on a per share basis with all other cash dividends and cash distributions paid on the shares of our Class A common stock during the 365-day period ending on the date of declaration of such dividend or distribution does not exceed $0.50 (as adjusted to appropriately reflect any other adjustments and excluding cash dividends or cash distributions that resulted in an adjustment to the exercise price or to the number of shares of our Class A common stock issuable on exercise of each warrant) but only with respect to the amount of the aggregate cash dividends or cash distributions equal to or less than $0.50 per share, (c) to satisfy the redemption rights of the holders of our Class A common stock in connection with a proposed initial business combination, (d) to satisfy the redemption rights of the holders of our Class A common stock in connection with a stockholder vote to amend our Certificate of Incorporation (A) to modify the substance or timing of our obligation to allow redemption in connection with our initial business combination or to redeem 100% of our public shares if we do not complete our initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO or (B) with respect to any other provision relating to stockholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity, or (e) in connection with the redemption of our public shares upon our failure to complete our initial business combination, then the warrant exercise price will be decreased, effective immediately after the effective date of such event, by the amount of cash and/or the fair market value of any securities or other assets paid on each share of o ur Class A common stock in respect of such event. If the number of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock is decreased by a consolidation, combination, reverse share split or reclassification of our Class A common stock or other similar event, then, on the effective date of such consolidation, combination, reverse share split, reclassification or similar event, the number of shares of our Class A common stock issuable on exercise of each warrant will be decreased in proportion to such decrease in outstanding shares of our Class A common stock. Whenever the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon the exercise of the warrants is adjusted, as described above, the warrant exercise price will be adjusted by multiplying the warrant exercise price immediately prior to such adjustment by a fraction (x) the numerator of which will be the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon the exercise of the warrants immediately prior to such adjustment and (y) the denominator of which will be the number of shares of our Class A common stock so purchasable immediately thereafter. In addition, if (x) we issue additional shares of our Class A common stock or equity-linked securities for capital raising purposes in connection with the closing of our initial business combination at an issue price or effective issue price of less than $9.20 per share of our Class A common stock (with such issue price or effective issue price to be determined in good faith by our board of directors and, in the case of any such issuance to our sponsor or its affiliates, without taking into account any founder shares held by our initial stockholders or such affiliates, as applicable, prior to such issuance (the Newly Issued Price), (y) the aggregate gross proceeds from such issuances represent more than 60% of the total equity proceeds, and interest thereon, available for the funding of our initial business combination on the date of the completion of our initial business combination (net of redemptions), and (z) the volume-weighted average trading price of our Class A common stock during the 20 trading day period starting on the trading day prior to the day on which we complete our initial business combination (such price, the Market Value) is below $9.20 per share, the exercise price of the warrants will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 115% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, and the $10.00 and $18.00 per share redemption trigger prices described adjacent to Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $10.00 and Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $18.00 will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 100% and 180% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, respectively. In case of any reclassification or reorganization of the outstanding Class A common stock (other than those described above or that solely affects the par value of such Class A common stock), or in the case of any merger or consolidation of us with or into another corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which we are the continuing corporation and that does not result in any reclassification or reorganization of our outstanding Class A common stock), or in the case of any sale or conveyance to another corporation or entity of the assets or other property of us as an entirety or substantially as an entirety in connection with which we are dissolved, the holders of the warrants will thereafter have the right to purchase and receive, upon the basis and upon the terms and conditions specified in the warrants and in lieu of the shares of our Class A common stock immediately theretofore purchasable and receivable upon the exercise of the rights represented thereby, the kind and amount of our Class A common stock or other securities or property (including cash) receivable upon such reclassification, reorganization, merger or consolidation, or upon a dissolution following any such sale or transfer, that the holder of the warrants would have received if such holder had exercised their warrants immediately prior to such event. If less than 70% of the consideration receivable by the holders of our Class A common stock in such a transaction is payable in the form of our Class A common stock in the successor entity that is listed for trading on a national securities exchange or is quoted in an established over-the-counter market, or is to be so listed for trading or quoted immediately following such event, and if the registered holder of the warrant properly exercises the warrant within thirty days following public disclosure of such transaction, the warrant exercise price will be reduced as specified in the warrant agreement based on the Black-Scholes value (as defined in the warrant agreement) of the warrant. The purpose of such exercise price reduction is to provide additional value to holders of the warrants when an extraordinary transaction occurs during the exercise period of the warrants pursuant to which the holders of the warrants otherwise do not receive the full potential value of the warrants. The warrants will be issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. You should review a copy of the warrant agreement, which was filed as an exhibit to the registration statement, for a complete description of the terms and conditions applicable to the warrants. The warrants may be exercised upon surrender of the warrant certificate on or prior to the expiration date at the offices of the warrant agent, with the exercise form on the reverse side of the warrant certificate completed and executed as indicated, accompanied by full payment of the exercise price (or on a cashless basis, if applicable), by certified or official bank check payable to us, for the number of warrants being exercised. The warrant holders do not have the rights or privileges of holders of common stock and any voting rights until they exercise their warrants and receive Class A common stock. After the issuance of our Class A common stock upon exercise of the warrants, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. No fractional shares will be issued upon exercise of the warrants. If, upon exercise of the warrants, a holder would be entitled to receive a fractional interest in a share, we will, upon exercise, round down to the nearest whole number, the number of shares of our Class A common stock to be issued to the warrant holder. Private Placement Warrants The private placement warrants (including the shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the private placement warrants) will not be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination (except pursuant to limited exceptions as described under Principal Stockholders Transfers of Founder Shares and Private Placement Warrants, to our officers and directors and other persons or entities affiliated with the initial purchasers of the private placement warrants) and they will not be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our sponsor or its permitted transferees (except as otherwise set forth herein). Our sponsor, or its permitted transferees, have the option to exercise the private placement warrants on a cashless basis. Except as described below, the private placement warrants have terms and provisions that are identical to those of the warrants being sold as part of the units in the IPO. If the private placement warrants are held by holders other than our sponsor or its permitted transferees, the private placement warrants will be redeemable by us in all redemption scenarios and exercisable by the holders on the same basis as the warrants included in the units being sold in the IPO. Except as described under Description of Securities Warrants Redemption of Warrants When the Price per Share of Our Class A Common Stock Equals or Exceeds $10.00, if holders of the private placement warrants elect to exercise them on a cashless basis, they would pay the exercise price by surrendering his, her or its warrants for that number of shares of our Class A common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of our Class A common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the excess of the historical fair market value (defined below) over the exercise price of the warrants by (y) the historical fair market value. For these purposes, the historical fair market value shall mean the average last reported sale price of the shares of our Class A common stock for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which the notice of warrant exercise is sent to the warrant agent. The reason that we have agreed that these warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis so long as they are held by our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees is because it is not known at this time whether they will be affiliated with us following a business combination. If they remain affiliated with us, their ability to sell our securities in the open market will be significantly limited. We expect to have policies in place that restrict insiders from selling our securities except during specific periods of time. Even during such periods of time when insiders will be permitted to sell our securities, an insider cannot trade in our securities if he or she is in possession of material non-public information. Accordingly, unlike public stockholders who could exercise their warrants and sell the shares of our Class A common stock received upon such exercise freely in the open market in order to recoup the cost of such exercise, the insiders could be significantly restricted from selling such securities. As a result, we believe that allowing the holders to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis is appropriate. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, our sponsor or an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may loan us funds as may be required, although they are under no obligation to advance funds or invest in us. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants of the post business combination entity at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends prior to the completion of a business combination. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition subsequent to completion of a business combination. The payment of any cash dividends subsequent to a business combination will be within the discretion of our board of directors at such time. Further, if we incur any indebtedness, our ability to declare dividends may be limited by restrictive covenants we may agree to in connection therewith. Certificate of Incorporation Our Certificate of Incorporation will contain provisions designed to provide certain requirements and restrictions that apply to us until the completion of our initial business combination. These provisions cannot be amended without the approval of the holders of 65% of our common stock. Our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees, if any, collectively beneficially own 20% of our common stock may participate in any vote to amend our Certificate of Incorporation and will have the discretion to vote in any manner they choose. Specifically, our Certificate of Incorporation will provide, among other things, that: If we have not completed an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but no more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the public shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any); and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law; Prior to or in connection with our initial business combination, we may not issue additional securities that would entitle the holders thereof to (i) receive funds from the trust account or (ii) vote on our initial business combination or on any other proposal presented to stockholders prior to or in connection with the completion of an initial business combination; Although we do not intend to enter into a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsor, our directors or our executive officers, we are not prohibited from doing so. In the event we enter into such a transaction, we, or a committee of independent directors, will obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm that such a business combination is fair to our company from a financial point of view; If a stockholder vote on our initial business combination is not required by law and we do not decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons, we will offer to redeem our public shares pursuant to Rule 13e-4 and Regulation 14E of the Exchange Act, and will file tender offer documents with the SEC prior to completing our initial business combination which contain substantially the same financial and other information about our initial business combination and the redemption rights as is required under Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act; Our initial business combination must occur with one or more target businesses that together have an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the assets held in the trust account (excluding the amount of deferred underwriting discounts held in trust and taxes payable on the income earned on the trust account) at the time of the agreement to enter into the initial business combination; If our stockholders approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to allow redemption in connection with our initial business combination or to redeem 100% of our public shares if we do not complete an initial business combination within 24 months from the time of the IPO, or with respect to any other provisions relating to stockholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity, we will provide our public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem all or a portion of their Class A common stock upon such approval at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of the then outstanding public shares, subject to the limitations described herein; and We will not effectuate our initial business combination with another blank check company or a similar company with nominal operations. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation will provide that under no circumstances will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001. Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions of Delaware Law and our Certificate of Incorporation We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL regulating corporate takeovers upon. This statute prevents certain Delaware corporations, under certain circumstances, from engaging in a business combination with: a stockholder who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock (otherwise known as an interested stockholder); an affiliate of an interested stockholder; or an associate of an interested stockholder, for three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. A business combination includes a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets. However, the above provisions of Section 203 do not apply if: our board of directors approves the transaction that made the stockholder an interested stockholder, prior to the date of the transaction; after the completion of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, that stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, other than statutorily excluded shares of common stock; or on or subsequent to the date of the transaction, the initial business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of our stockholders, and not by written consent, by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors. As a result, in most circumstances, a person can gain control of our board only by successfully engaging in a proxy contest at two or more annual meetings. Our authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock will be available for future issuances without stockholder approval and could be utilized for a variety of corporate purposes, including future offerings to raise additional capital, acquisitions and employee benefit plans. The existence of authorized but unissued and unreserved common stock and preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or otherwise. Special Meeting of Stockholders Our amended and restated bylaws provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by a majority vote of our board of directors or by our Chairman. Advance Notice Requirements for Stockholder Proposals and Director Nominations Our amended and restated bylaws provide that stockholders seeking to bring business before our annual meeting of stockholders, or to nominate candidates for election as directors at our annual meeting of stockholders, must provide timely notice of their intent in writing. To be timely, a stockholders notice will need to be received by the company secretary at our principal executive offices not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the opening of business on the 120th day prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders. Pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, proposals seeking inclusion in our annual proxy statement must comply with the notice periods contained therein. Our amended and restated bylaws also specify certain requirements as to the form and content of a stockholders meeting. These provisions may preclude our stockholders from bringing matters before our annual meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at our annual meeting of stockholders. Action by Written Consent Any action required or permitted to be taken by our common stockholders must be effected by a duly called annual or special meeting of such stockholders and may not be effected by written consent of the stockholders other than with respect to our Class B common stock. Classified Board of Directors Our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with members of each class serving staggered three-year terms. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. Subject to the terms of any preferred stock, any or all of the directors may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Any vacancy on our board of directors, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors, may be filled only by vote of a majority of our directors then in office. Class B Common Stock Consent Right For so long as any shares of our Class B common stock remain outstanding, we may not, without the prior vote or written consent of the holders of a majority of the shares of our Class B common stock then outstanding, voting separately as a single class, amend, alter or repeal any provision of our Certificate of Incorporation, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, if such amendment, alteration or repeal would alter or change the powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other or special rights of the Class B common stock. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the holders of our Class B common stock may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of the outstanding Class B common stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares of our Class B common stock were present and voted. Registration Rights The holders of the founder shares, private placement warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans (and any Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the private placement warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans) are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to our completion of our initial business combination. However, the registration rights agreement provides that we will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lockup period, which occurs (i) in the case of the founder shares, as described in the following paragraph, and (ii) in the case of the private placement warrants and the respective shares of our Class A common stock underlying such warrants, 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Except as described herein, our sponsor and our directors and executive officers have agreed not to transfer, assign or sell any of their founder shares until (a) one year after the completion of our initial business combination, or (b) the date on which we complete a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange or other similar transaction after our initial business combination that results in all of our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of our Class A common stock for cash, securities or other property. Any permitted transferees will be subject to the same restrictions and other agreements of our sponsor with respect to any founder shares. We refer to such transfer restrictions as the lock-up. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock capitalizations, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after our initial business combination, the converted shares of our Class A common stock will be released from the lock-up. Listing of Securities We have listed our units, Class A Common Stock and warrants on the NYSE under the symbols NSH.U, NSH and NSH WS, respectively. The units will automatically separate into their component parts and will not be traded following the completion of our initial business combination. EX-31.1 3 nshu-ex311_9.htm EX-31.1 nshu-ex311_9.htm EXHIBIT 31.1 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 I, Robert A. Coleman, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of NavSight Holdings, Inc.; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrants other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure