Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the 2024 Form 10-K/A). This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in the 2024 Form 10-K/A and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future.Overview Spire is a global provider of space-based data, analytics and space services, offering unique datasets and powerful insights about Earth so that organizations can make decisions with confidence in a rapidly changing world. Spire builds, owns, and operates a fully deployed satellite constellation. We believe our constellation is one of the worlds largest listening constellations, observing the Earth in real time using radio frequency technology. The data acquired by our multipurpose satellites provide global weather intelligence, ship and plane movements, and spoofing and jamming detection to better predict how their patterns impact economies, global security, business operations, and the environment. We also offer space-as-a-service solutions that empower customers to leverage our established infrastructure to put their business in space. We provide customers these solutions through an application programming interface (API) infrastructure. Spire also offers research and development services (R&D Services) to third parties, for the advancement of contracted satellite technologies. In addition to providing R&D Services, we grant the counterparty a license to the developed intellectual property. Our platform applies our value-add insights and predictive analytics to this proprietary data to create commercially valuable datasets. We offer three data solutions to our customers, which vary in complexity and price and can be delivered in near real-time via our API that can be easily integrated into our customers business operations: Maritime: Precise space-based data used for highly accurate ship monitoring, ship safety, and route optimization. Aviation: Precise space-based aviation insights, analytics and flight tracking data to power applications, drive decision making, and improve cost efficiencies. Weather and Climate: Precise space-based data used for highly accurate weather forecasting. For each data solution, we have the capability to offer customers a variety of features and additional value. The four forms of data we monetize are: Clean data: Clean and structured data directly from our proprietary nanosatellites; Smart data: Clean data fused with third-party datasets and proprietary analysis to enhance value and provide insights; Predictive solutions: Big data, AI, and ML algorithms applied to fused data sets to create predictive analytics and insights; and Solutions: Data-driven actionable recommendations to solve specific business problems, utilizing the full spectrum of our data analytics suite. 31 These value-add data features allow customers to solve various use cases and provide a path to expand throughout the customers relationship. As our fourth solution, we are also pioneering an innovative business model through our Space Services solution. We leverage our fully deployed infrastructure and large-scale operations to enable our customers to obtain customized data through our API. Our Space Services offering provides our customers with fast, scalable, and reliable access to space. Our solutions are offered to customers across numerous industries and we not only have the opportunity to upsell within each one, but we also have the opportunity to cross-sell among all our solutions. We provide our solutions to global customers either through a subscription or based on a specific project. We currently sell directly to end customers and utilize reseller partners when beneficial. Recent Developments Sale of Maritime Business On November 13, 2024, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Kpler Holding SA, a Belgian corporation (Buyer), pursuant to which we agreed to sell our maritime business to Buyer and enter into certain ancillary agreements (the Transactions). The maritime business sold pursuant to the Transactions did not include any part of our satellite network or operations. The purchase price agreed to be paid by Buyer to us at the closing of the Transactions was a cash payment based upon an enterprise value of $233.5 million, subject to certain adjustments. The Transactions also included a twelve-month transition service and data provision agreement for $7.5 million. On April 25, 2025, we completed the sale of our maritime business to Buyer for approximately $233.5 million, before adjustments. On April 25, 2025, we and L3Harris Technologies, Inc. (L3Harris), entered into the Confidential Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (the Settlement Agreement) among us, exactEarth Ltd. (exactEarth) and L3Harris, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Transactions, Buyer paid L3Harris $17.0 million for full and complete resolution and release of all disputes asserted in connection with the Amended and Restated L3Harris Agreement dated January 21, 2020 (the A&R L3Harris Agreement) between us and L3Harris. We and Buyer further agreed that we would contribute $7.0 million of the Settlement in the form of a reduction to the cash paid by Buyer to us at the closing of the Transactions. 32 Private Placement On March 12, 2025, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement) with the purchasers named therein for the private placement (the 2025 Private Placement) of (i) 4,843,750 shares of Class A common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share and (ii) pre-funded warrants (the Pre-Funded Warrants) to purchase 156,250 shares of Class A common stock at a purchase price of $7.9999 per Pre-Funded Warrant. The Pre-Funded Warrants have an exercise price of $0.0001 per share of Class A common stock, are exercisable immediately, and will terminate when exercised in full. The aggregate net proceeds for the 2025 Private Placement were $37.3 million, after deducting offering expenses. The 2025 Private Placement closed on March 14, 2025.Highlights from the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 We were awarded a Can$72 Million contract from the Canadian Space Agency to design WildFireSat mission. We announced the successful two-way laser communication between our satellites in space. We announced the launch of breakthrough AI weather models built on NVIDIA Omniverse Blueprint for Earth-2.Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Impact Over the past two years, we have been impacted by the macroeconomic environment, such as fluctuations in foreign currencies, elevated interest rates, and geopolitical conflicts like the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Israel's war with Hamas, and the increased tensions between China and the United States. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. Dollar exhibited a decrease in strength against the local functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The U.S. Dollar's decrease had a positive impact on our revenue, as approximately one-third of our sales are conducted in foreign currencies. Conversely, the decrease in the value of the U.S. Dollar had an unfavorable impact on our expenses, given that a majority of our workforce resides in countries other than the United States. Approximately 30% of our revenues were generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at each balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during the period for revenues and expenses. To the extent we experience significant currency fluctuations, our results of operations may be impacted. The macroeconomic environment has caused existing or potential customers to re-evaluate their decision to purchase our offerings, at times resulting in additional customer discounts, extended payment terms, and longer sales cycles. Particularly, government agency delays in approving appropriations bills negatively impacted the timeliness of some of our U.S. federal government orders. Additionally, recent changes to tariffs could cause interruptions in our supply chain and increase spending to meet our obligations. Tariff changes could also cause greater volatility in the Companys cash flows, as the Company may have to cover expenses related to importing materials into the United States from other affiliated entities, even if it recovers some or all of those costs at a later date. If any of these factors continue or worsen, and/or if new macroeconomic or geopolitical issues arise, our results and financial condition could be further negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, downturn, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry or geography. Any downturn of the general economy or industries in which we operate would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our current and future performance depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, those described below. While these areas present significant opportunity, they also present risks that we must manage to achieve successful results. For additional information about these risks, see the section titled Risk Factors in the 2024 Form 10-K/A and in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to address these risks, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 33 Expansion of and Further Penetration of Our Customer Base We employ a land and expand business model that focuses on efficiently acquiring new customers (land) and then growing our relationships with these customers over time (expand). We have the capability to offer customers additional data sets and a variety of enhanced features that potentially grow the value of the services for which our customers contract with us. Our future revenue growth and our path to profitability are dependent upon our ability to continue to land new customers and then expand adoption of our solutions within their organizations. We track our progress landing new customers by measuring the number of ARR Solution Customers (as defined below) we have from one fiscal period to the next. The number of ARR Solution Customers decreased to 620 as of March 31, 2025, from 708 as of March 31, 2024. We track our increases and decreases in our customer contract values by measuring our ARR Net Retention Rate (as defined below). Our ARR Net Retention Rate was 97% and 102% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.Expansion into New Industries and Geographies As our solutions have grown, we continue to focus on further penetration of our initial industries including maritime, aviation, logistics, and government (civil and defense/intelligence). We believe our technology and solutions give us the ability to expand into additional industries, including energy, financial services, agriculture, transportation, and insurance, and also into additional geographies, including Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. Our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand into new industries and geographies. The costs associated with these expansions may adversely affect our results of operations.Impact of the Solar Cycle on our Assets Remaining Life A stronger solar cycle has the potential to impact some of our satellites, accelerating their deorbiting and shortening their useful lives. The solar cycle is the cycle that the Suns magnetic field goes through approximately every 11 years. In 2019, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the International Space Environment Services panel forecasted that Solar Cycle 25 (December 2019 to approximately 2030) would be relatively weak after a relatively weak Solar Cycle 24 (December 2008 to December 2019). Subsequently, NOAA noted that Solar Cycle 24 was the weakest cycle in 100 years with sunspots reaching a maximum of 116 below the average of 179. NOAA's October 2023 projection that Solar Cycle 25 would be more intense than Cycle 24 and would peak by the end of 2024 has since been confirmed. A stronger solar cycle has accelerated the deorbiting of our satellites sooner than expected or planned. Our ability to minimize the solar cycle impact, our ability to replenish our existing constellation in a timely manner and the costs associated with these actions may adversely affect our results of operations.Investment in Growth We continue investing in growing our business and capitalizing on our market opportunities while balancing the uncertainties from the macroeconomic environment and geopolitical factors. We intend to continue to add headcount to our global sales and marketing teams to acquire new customers and to increase sales to existing customers. We also intend to continue to add headcount as needed to our research and development teams and otherwise invest to improve and innovate our nanosatellite, ground station and data analytics technologies. Our total headcount across all functions increased to 439 employees as of March 31, 2025, from 430 employees as of March 31, 2024. The costs of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth.Acquisitions Our business strategy may include acquiring other complementary solutions, technologies, or businesses that we believe will allow us to continue on our path to profitability, reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing solution offerings, augment our engineering workforce and enhance our technological capabilities. 34 Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) Number of ARR Customers Number of ARR Solution Customers ARR Net Retention Rate Annual Recurring Revenue We define ARR as our expected annualized revenue from customers that are under contracts with us at the end of the reporting period with a binding and renewable agreement for our subscription solutions or customers that are under a binding multi-year contract that can range from components of our Space Services solution to a project-based customer solution, regardless of remaining term. Customers with Space Services contracts are considered recurring when there is a multi-year binding agreement that has a renewable component in the contract. Customers are also considered recurring when they have multiple contracts over multiple years. Customer contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR. The increase in our ARR for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily driven by acquiring new high-value customers and increasing business with our existing customer base. Our ARR has fluctuated from period to period in the past due in part to the timing of some of our Space Services contracts, including when engagements start and stop. We expect our ARR to continue to fluctuate from period to period in the future. ARR is a leading indicator and accordingly, will tend to outpace the impact on our revenue as we recognize the contract value of various agreements over time. The following table summarizes our ARR as of each period end indicated: As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change ARR $ 129,278 $ 120,890 7 % Number of ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers We define an ARR Customer as an entity that has a contract with us or through our reseller partners contracts, that is either a binding and renewable agreement for our subscription solutions, or a binding multi-year contract as of the measurement date independent of the number of solutions the entity has under contract. A single organization with separate subsidiaries, segments, or divisions may represent multiple customers, as we treat each entity that is invoiced separately as an individual customer. In cases where customers subscribe to our platform through our reseller partners, each end customer that meets the above definition is counted separately as an ARR Customer. All entities that have contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR Customers. We define an ARR Solution Customer similarly to an ARR Customer, but we count every solution the customer has with us separately. As a result, the count of ARR Solution Customers exceeds the count of ARR Customers at each period end, as some customers contract with us for multiple solutions. Our multiple solutions customers are those that are under contract for at least two of our solutions: Maritime, Aviation, Weather and Climate, and Space Services. All entities that have contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR Solution Customers. The decrease in each of our ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers at the dates presented was driven by our move to de-emphasize sales to customers with very low ARR or revenue. We expect this strategy to ultimately increase our ARR and revenue per customer, increase our ARR in total, and reduce our customer count as we drive towards the most efficient use of our resources. The following table summarizes the number of our ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers as of each period end indicated: 35 As of March 31, 2025 2024 % Change ARR Customers 570 672 (15 )% ARR Solution Customers 620 708 (12 )% ARR Net Retention Rate We calculate our ARR Net Retention Rate for a particular fiscal period end by dividing (i) our ARR from those ARR Customers at that period end that were also customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal period end by (ii) the ARR from all customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal period. This calculation measures the overall impact from increases in customer contract value (upsells), the decreases in customer contract value (downsells) and the decreases in customer value resulting from customers that have chosen not to renew their contracts with us (lost customers). The following table summarizes our ARR Net Retention Rate for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: As of March 31, 2025 2024 % Change ARR Net Retention Rate 97 % 102 % (5 )% Our ARR Net Retention Rate can be impacted from period to period by large increases or decreases in customer contract value and large decreases in contract value from customers that have not renewed their contracts with us. An ARR Net Retention Rate greater than 100% is an indication that we are growing the value of the solutions our customers are purchasing from us at a fiscal period end versus the prior fiscal period end. An ARR Net Retention Rate less than 100% is an indication that the value of the solutions our customers are purchasing from us declined at a fiscal period end versus the prior fiscal period end. Our ARR Net Retention Rate decreased by 5% for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The decrease was primarily driven by the reduced value of NOAAs radio occultation technology (RO) weather award in the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the value of the corresponding award in the three months ended March 31, 2024.Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from providing data, insights and access to our cloud-based technology platform sold on a subscription basis. Some of our customer arrangements include additional performance obligations that encompass the delivery of specific goods, services or intellectual property apart from the ongoing services provided on a subscription basis, which may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Additionally, some of our customer arrangements include material rights to receive discounted subscription services in the future, which impacts the timing of revenue recognition. Subscription periods for our solutions generally range from one to two years and are typically non-cancelable, with customers having the right to terminate their agreements only if we materially breach our obligations under the agreement. Our subscription fees are typically billed either monthly or quarterly in advance. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs, depreciation, hosted infrastructure costs, high-power computing costs, third-party operating and royalty costs associated with delivering our data and services to our customers, and costs associated with R&D Services contracts. In addition, cost of revenue includes the amortization of purchased intangibles associated with our acquisition of exactEarth in November 2021 (the Acquisition). Personnel costs are primarily related to the cost of our employees supporting and managing our constellation operations including satellite operations, ground station control, and launch management. Personnel costs also include the cost of our employees supporting and managing projects for our research and development services. Costs associated with the manufacture and launch of our satellites, including personnel costs, are capitalized and depreciated upon placement in service, typically over a four-year expected useful life. As satellites reach the end of their expected useful life, they are generally replaced with replenishment satellites to maintain our constellation at optimal performance. Costs associated with the acquisition and development of new ground stations, including the bill of materials and labor to install the ground station, are capitalized and depreciated upon placement in service typically over a four-year to 36 ten-year expected useful life. We anticipate ongoing capital spending to repair and replenish ground stations as they reach the end of their expected useful life to keep our ground station network at optimal performance. Our proprietary ground station network is primarily located in third-party locations where we incur lease and other operational charges. Cost of revenue also includes royalties associated with third-party data sets that we integrate into our data solutions. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, third-party consulting fees, and computing costs. Our research and development efforts are focused on improving our satellite technology, developing new data sets, developing new algorithms, enhancing our smart and predictive analytics, and enhancing the ease of use and utility of our space-based data solutions. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing and advertising costs, costs incurred in the development of customer relationships, brand development costs, travel-related expenses, allowance for current expected credit losses, and amortization of purchased intangible backlog associated with the Acquisition. Commission costs on new customer contract bookings are considered costs of obtaining customer contracts. Commission costs for multi-year deals are considered contract acquisition costs and are deferred and then amortized over the period of the contract. Commission costs on contracts completed with a term of twelve months or less are expensed in the period incurred. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for personnel in our executive, finance and accounting, facilities, legal, human resources, and management information systems functions, as well as other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include fees related to third-party legal counsel, corporate insurance, fees related to accounting, tax and audit costs, office facilities costs, software subscription costs, and other corporate costs. Loss on Decommissioned Satellites. Loss on decommissioned satellites consists of the write-off of the net book value associated with the manufacture and launch of our satellites prior to the end of the satellites useful life. We contract with third-party companies to launch, carry, and deploy our satellites into space. A loss could result from a third-party launch or deployer failure, a technical failure of the satellite, or the deorbit or decommissioning of a satellite before the end of the satellites useful life. A technical failure could include a satellite that is not able to communicate with our network of ground stations or fulfill its intended technical mission for a duration greater than one month. The loss amount is presented net of any insurance proceeds received. Due to the nature of these events, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of future satellite deorbit and launch failure losses. We sometimes purchase launch insurance when financially practical; however, the proceeds from these insurance policies will typically only cover a portion of our launch loss. Allowance for Current Expected Credit Loss on Notes Receivable. Allowance for current expected credit loss on notes receivable consists of allowance for current expected credit loss recorded on a note receivable and accrued interest issued to a Space Services customer. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income includes interest earned on our cash balances and note receivable. Interest Expense. Interest expense primarily includes interest costs associated with our debt and amortization of deferred financing costs. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Earnout Liability. Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability includes mark-to-market adjustments to reflect changes in the fair value of the contingent earnout liability. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities includes mark-to-market adjustments to reflect changes in fair value of warrant liabilities. 37 Issuance of Stock Warrants. Issuance of stock warrants includes expense related to the value of the right to purchase company shares. Foreign Exchange Gain/Loss. Foreign exchange gain/loss consists of the net effect of realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates for transactions denominated in non-functional currency relative to each subsidiarys functional currency. We use the local currency as our functional currency for our subsidiaries in Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Australia, Germany, and Canada. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net consists primarily of tax credits, grant income, share of equity investment loss, and write-off of certain prepaid assets. Income Tax Provision Provision for income taxes consists of federal income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. We do not provide for income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we intend to invest these earnings outside of the United States permanently. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2025, Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated: As of March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Revenue $ 23,876 $ 34,825 Cost of revenue(1) 15,092 25,596 Gross profit 8,784 9,229 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 8,509 6,037 Sales and marketing 4,735 5,118 General and administrative 15,810 9,844 Loss on decommissioned satellites 5,160 178 Allowance for current expected credit loss on notes receivable 40 Total operating expenses 34,214 21,217 Loss from operations (25,430 ) (11,988 ) Other income (expense): Interest income 20 454 Interest expense (5,730 ) (5,053 ) Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability 1,038 (45 ) Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 5,837 (4,202 ) Issuance of stock warrants (2,399 ) Foreign exchange gain (loss) 3,826 (1,786 ) Other expense, net (224 ) (534 ) Total other expense, net 4,767 (13,565 ) Loss before income taxes (20,663 ) (25,553 ) Income tax benefit (6 ) (9 ) Net loss $ (20,657 ) $ (25,544 ) 38 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: As of March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Cost of revenue $ 41 $ 61 Research and development 675 1,018 Sales and marketing 682 675 General and administrative 2,489 1,874 Total stock-based compensation $ 3,887 $ 3,628 Revenue As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Revenue $ 23,876 $ 34,825 (31 )% Total revenue decreased $10.9 million, or 31%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, primarily due to items that occurred in the three months ended March 31, 2024 that did not repeat in the three months ended March 31, 2025, including a one-time performance obligation for a space services customer of $9.6 million. Additional drivers include a reduction in year-over-year RO-based revenue primarily from the reduced value of NOAAs RO weather award during the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the prior year period, partially offset by increased ARR from our existing customers and growth in revenue recognized for both Space Services contracts, excluding the impact of the aforementioned 2024 performance obligation, and R&D Services contracts. Our ARR Customers decreased 15% to 570 as of March 31, 2025, from 672 as of March 31, 2024. The decrease in ARR Customers was aligned with our stated move to de-emphasize sales to customers with very low ARR or revenue and instead focus on high ARR or revenue customers. Our ARR Net Retention Rate was 97% and 102% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease in ARR Net Retention Rate was driven primarily by the reduced value of NOAAs RO weather award in the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the value of the corresponding award in the three months ended March 31, 2024. We derived 57% of our revenue from the Americas, 34% of our revenue from Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA), and 9% of our revenue from Asia Pacific (APAC) for the three months ended March 31, 2025. We derived 65% of our revenue from the Americas, 29% of our revenue from EMEA, and 6% of our revenue from APAC for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We derived 82% of our revenue from subscription arrangements for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 52% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The distribution of our revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period driven primarily by the timing of the non-subscription revenue recognition in our contracts. Revenue from subscription-based contracts was $19.5 million, or 82%, of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and was $18.2 million, or 52%, of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The proportional increase in revenue from subscription arrangements was driven by higher revenue recognized for Space Services contracts within the prior-year period. Cost of Revenue As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Total cost of revenue $ 15,092 $ 25,596 (41 )% Gross profit 8,784 9,229 (5 )% Gross margin 37 % 27 % 10 % Headcount (at end of period) (1) 46 36 28 % (1) Excludes headcount relating to R&D Services contracts. R&D Services contracts headcount are included in research and development. Cost of revenue decreased $10.5 million, or 41%, primarily driven by a decrease in satellite operation expense of $8.9 million, a decrease in personnel expenses of $2.5 million, a decrease in depreciation expense of $1.9 million, and a decrease in other miscellaneous expenses of $0.1 million, partially offset by an increase in downlink data service expenses of $2.9 million. The decrease in satellite operation expense was driven by the recognition of increased launch costs associated with a Space Services contract in the prior year period that did not recur during the three months ended March 31, 2025. The decrease in personnel costs was driven by decreased work related to R&D Services contracts during the period. The decrease in depreciation expense was primarily driven by the acceleration of depreciation, resulting in fully depreciated satellites in the prior year period to 39 account for the impact of increased solar activity related to the current solar cycle. The increase in downlink data service expenses was primarily driven by the purchase of supplemental data to support a radio frequency geolocation contract. Gross margin was 37% and 27% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase was driven primarily by the expenses as described above. Our gross margin can fluctuate significantly from period to period driven primarily by the timing of the revenue as well as the timing of our technology investments to support future growth. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of our research and development, our sales and marketing, and our general and administrative expenses, as well as loss on decommissioned satellites in some periods. As we continue to invest in our growth, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as revenue grows. However, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time. Research and Development As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Research and development $ 8,509 $ 6,037 41 % Percentage of total revenue 36 % 17 % Headcount (at end of period) (1) 238 232 3 % (1) Includes headcount relating to R&D Services contracts. R&D Services contracts expenses are included in cost of revenue. Research and development expenses increased $2.5 million, or 41%, primarily due to an increase in personnel expenses. The increase in personnel costs was driven by decreased work related to R&D Services contracts during the period, which causes a lower proportion of costs to be allocated to cost of revenue. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods primarily due to higher headcount as we continue to invest in the development of our solutions offerings and new technologies. However, we expect research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue in future periods as our revenue growth exceeds our increase in research and development spend. Sales and Marketing As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Sales and marketing $ 4,735 $ 5,118 (7 )% Percentage of total revenue 20 % 15 % Headcount (at end of period) 67 70 (4 )% Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.4 million, or 7%, primarily due to lower personnel costs, which resulted from an overall reduction in headcount. We expect sales and marketing expenses to generally grow in absolute dollars in the future primarily due to increased employee-related expenses to support our sales and marketing efforts and our continued expansion of our sales capacity across our solutions. However, we expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease in future periods as our revenue growth exceeds our increases in sales and marketing spend. General and Administrative As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change General and administrative $ 15,810 $ 9,844 61 % Percentage of total revenues 66 % 28 % Headcount (at end of period) 88 92 (4 )% 40 General and administrative expenses increased $6.0 million, or 61%, primarily driven by an increase in professional services expenses of $4.9 million, an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $0.6 million, an increase in other miscellaneous operating expenses of $0.3 million, and an increase in bonus expenses of $0.2 million. The increase in professional services fees was primarily driven by higher third-party accounting, legal and other consulting services relating to the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and the Transactions. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was driven by higher stock grants which resulted in a higher total value of stock-based awards recognized in the current period. The increase in bonus expenses was driven by higher bonus accruals for management. We expect our general and administrative expenses to generally grow in absolute dollars in future periods as our employee-related expenses increase to support our revenue growth. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease as revenue growth exceeds our increases in general and administrative spend. Loss on Decommissioned Satellites As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Loss on decommissioned satellites $ 5,160 $ 178 2,799 % Percentage of total revenues 22 % 1 % We recognized a non-cash expense of $5.2 million and $0.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. The increase in loss on decommissioned satellites is a result of the Companys decision to stop supporting three underperforming satellites. Due to the nature of these events, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of future decommissioning losses. While we sometimes purchase launch insurance when financially practical, the proceeds from these policies will typically only cover a portion of our loss in the event of an unplanned satellite deorbit or launch failure. Allowance for Current Expected Credit Loss on Notes Receivable As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Allowance for current expected credit loss on notes receivable $ $ 40 -100% Percentage of total revenues % 0 % Allowance for current expected credit loss on notes receivable decreased immaterially for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024.Other Income (Expense) As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Interest income $ 20 $ 454 (96 )% Interest expense $ (5,730 ) $ (5,053 ) 13 % Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability $ 1,038 $ (45 ) * Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ 5,837 $ (4,202 ) 239 % Issuance of stock warrants $ $ (2,399 ) (100 )% Foreign exchange gain (loss) $ 3,826 $ (1,786 ) 314 % Other expense, net $ (224 ) $ (534 ) (58 )% *Not Meaningful Interest income decreased by $0.4 million, or 96%, primarily driven by lower cash held in marketable securities. Interest expense increased by $0.7 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, primarily due to higher amortized debt issuance costs and interest rate associated with our Blue Torch term loan. 41 Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability was a gain of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to an immaterial loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The gain in the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of the liability driven by the decline of the underlying stock price, partially offset by a higher volatility rate used in the model. For additional information, see Notes 2 and 9 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities was a gain of $5.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to a loss of $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a change of 239%. The $5.8 million gain for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of the warrant liabilities driven by the decline of the underlying stock price, partially offset by a higher volatility rate used in the model. The $4.2 million loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was primarily due to the appreciation of the underlying stock valuation for the warrants issued to Blue Torch and subsequently amended in July 2023. There was no issuance of stock warrant expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Issuance of stock warrants was a net loss of $2.4 million, relating to a definitive Securities Purchase Agreement with institutional investors during the three months ended March 31, 2024. We recognized a foreign exchange gain of $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to a foreign exchange loss of $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a change of 314%. The $3.8 million gain for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was primarily due to the remeasurement of intercompany balances between our Luxembourg entity and our U.K. entity with our U.S. entity denominated in U.S. Dollars. The weakening of the U.S. Dollar for the period ended March 31, 2025, relative to the Euro and British Pound Sterling at December 31, 2024, triggered the remeasurement and unrealized gain. The loss of $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was primarily due to the remeasurement of intercompany balances denominated in U.S. dollars between our Luxembourg entity and the U.S. Other expense, net was a loss of $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025, a decrease of 58% compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily driven by loss on disposal of assets during the three months ended March 31, 2025.Income Tax Provision As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 % Change Income tax benefit $ (6 ) $ (9 ) (33 )% The income tax benefit decreased immaterially for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024.Non-GAAP Financial Measures We believe that in addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and facilitates period to period comparisons of operations, as this eliminates the effects of certain variables from period to period for reasons that we do not believe reflect our underlying business performance. In addition to our GAAP measures, we use this non-GAAP financial measure internally for budgeting and resource allocation purposes and in analyzing our financial results. We define EBITDA as net income (loss), plus depreciation and amortization expense, plus interest, net, and minus income tax benefit. We define Adjusted EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, further adjusted for any change in fair value of contingent earnout liability, change in fair value of warrant liabilities, issuance of stock warrants, foreign exchange (gain) loss, other expense, net, stock-based compensation, loss on decommissioned satellites, other unusual and infrequent costs, and other acquisition accounting amortization. We believe Adjusted EBITDA can be useful in providing an understanding of the underlying results of operations and trends, an enhanced overall understanding of our financial 42 performance and prospects for the future. While Adjusted EBITDA is not a recognized measure under GAAP, management uses this financial measure to evaluate and forecast business performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of liquidity or cash flows from operations or a measure comparable to net income as it does not take into account certain requirements, such as capital expenditures and related depreciation, interest payments, tax benefits, stock-based compensation, other unusual and infrequent costs, and other acquisition accounting amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from the use of similarly titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Investors should note that the excluded items may have had, and may in the future have, a material impact on our reported financial results. Investors should read this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto also included within. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the following items provides information that is helpful in understanding our results of operations, evaluating our future prospects, comparing our financial results across accounting periods, and comparing our financial results to our peers, many of which provide similar non-GAAP financial measures. Change in fair value of contingent earnout liabilities and warrant liabilities. We exclude this as it does not reflect the underlying cash flows or operational results of the business. Issuance of stock warrants. We exclude this as it does not reflect the underlying cash flows or operational results of the business. Foreign exchange gain/loss. We are exposed to foreign currency gains or losses on outstanding foreign currency denominated receivables and payables related to certain customer sales agreements, product costs and other operating expenses. As we do not actively hedge these currency exposures, changes in the underlying currency rates relative to the U.S. Dollar may result in realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses between the time these receivables and payables arise and the time that they are settled in cash. Since such realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses are the result of macro-economic factors and can vary significantly from one period to the next, we believe that exclusion of such realized and unrealized gains and losses is useful to management and investors in evaluating the performance of our ongoing operations on a period-to-period basis. Other expense, net. We exclude other expense, net because it includes items that do not reflect the underlying cash flows or operational results of our business. Examples of such expenses include equity investment loss and vendor dispute legal settlements. Stock-based compensation. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these expenses when we assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation (ASC 718), we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business results of operations and those of other companies. Loss on decommissioned satellites. We exclude loss on decommissioned satellites because if there was no loss, the expense would be accounted for as depreciation and would also be excluded as part of our EBITDA calculation. Other unusual and infrequent costs. We exclude these as they are unusual items that do not reflect the ongoing operational results of our business. Examples of these types of expenses include accounting, legal and other professional fees associated with the financial restatement and the Transactions. Other acquisition accounting amortization. We amortize prepaid expense for purchased data rights in connection with the acquisition of exactEarth and certain technologies. The prepaid amortization of this asset is a non-cash expense that can be significantly affected by the inherent subjective nature of the assigned value and useful life. We exclude this amortized 43 prepaid expense for our internal management reporting processes because it has already been incurred and is a non-cash expense. Our management also finds it useful to exclude this charge when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. It is important to note that while this expense is excluded for purposes of non-GAAP presentation, the revenue of the acquired companies is reflected in the non-GAAP measures and that the assets contribute to revenue generation. The following table outlines the reconciliation from net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated: As of March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net loss $ (20,657 ) $ (25,544 ) Depreciation & amortization 4,413 6,837 Interest, net 5,710 4,599 Income tax benefit (6 ) (9 ) EBITDA (10,540 ) (14,117 ) Adjustments to EBITDA: Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability (1,038 ) 45 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities (5,837 ) 4,202 Issuance of stock warrants 2,399 Foreign exchange (gain) loss (3,826 ) 1,786 Other expense, net 224 534 Stock-based compensation 3,887 3,628 Loss on decommissioned satellites 5,160 178 Other unusual and infrequent costs 3,897 Other acquisition accounting amortization 165 170 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,908 ) $ (1,175 )Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures provided by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which items are adjusted to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debt; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect decommissioned satellites and does not reflect the cash capital expenditure requirements for the replacements of lost satellites. While these expenses could occur in a given year, the existence and magnitude of these costs could vary greatly and are unpredictable. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. 44 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity to fund our operations are from cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $35.9 million as of March 31, 2025, primarily proceeds from the 2025 Private Placement. Approximately $8.8 million of our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2025 was held outside of the United States. These amounts compare to cash and cash equivalents of $19.2 million as of December 31, 2024, of which $14.4 million was held outside of the United States. The cash and cash equivalent amounts are exclusive of restricted cash, which totaled $0.5 million as of each of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024. Since our inception, we have been in an operating cash flow deficit as we have made significant investments in our technology infrastructure, built out our research and development foundation, grown sales and marketing resources to drive revenue, and scaled general and administrative functions to enable operating effectiveness. On November 13, 2024, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with Buyer, pursuant to which we agreed to complete the Transactions. The maritime business sold pursuant to the Transactions did not include any part of our satellite network or operations. The purchase price agreed to be paid by Buyer to us at the closing of the Transactions was a cash payment based upon an enterprise value of $233.5 million, subject to certain adjustments. The Transactions also included a twelve-month transition service and data provision agreement for $7.5 million. On March 12, 2025, we entered into the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement with the purchasers named therein for the 2025 Private Placement of (i) 4,843,750 shares of Class A common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share and (ii) Pre-Funded Warrants to purchase 156,250 shares of Class A common stock at a purchase price of $7.9999 per Pre-Funded Warrant. The Pre-Funded Warrants have an exercise price of $0.0001 per share of Class A common stock, are exercisable immediately, and will terminate when exercised in full. The aggregate net proceeds for the 2025 Private Placement were $37.3 million, after deducting offering expenses. The 2025 Private Placement closed on March 14, 2025. On April 25, 2025, we completed the sale of our maritime business to Buyer for approximately $233.5 million, before adjustments. On April 25, 2025, we and L3Harris, entered into the Settlement Agreement among us, exactEarth and L3Harris, pursuant to which, upon the closing of the Transactions, Buyer paid L3Harris $17.0 million for full and complete resolution and release of all disputes asserted in connection with the A&R L3Harris Agreement between us and L3Harris. We and Buyer further agreed that we would contribute $7.0 million of the Settlement in the form of a reduction to the cash paid by Buyer to us at the closing of the Transactions. On April 25, 2025, we repaid with a portion of the proceeds of the Transactions all obligations and all amounts borrowed, and all obligations have terminated, under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement and the Strategic Innovation Fund (SIF) loan agreement. Following the closing of the Transactions, we believe that we will have sufficient working capital to operate for a period of at least one year from the issuance of the March 31, 2025 condensed consolidated financial statements based on our current cash and cash equivalents balance of $35.9 million and expected future financial results.Blue Torch Credit Agreement On June 13, 2022, we, as borrower, and certain of our subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into the Blue Torch Financing Agreement with Blue Torch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and certain lenders (the Lenders). The Blue Torch Financing Agreement provided for, among other things, a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $120.0 million (the Blue Torch Credit Facility). A portion of the proceeds of the term loan was used to repay our then-existing $70.0 million credit facility with FP Credit Partners, L.P., and the remainder of the proceeds of the term loan may be used for general corporate purposes. The $120.0 million term loan was available and drawn at closing, of which $19.7 million was placed in an escrow account by Blue Torch with such amount released upon our achieving certain metrics related to annualized recurring revenue and a total annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio. These metrics were achieved and the $19.7 million was released from the escrow account and delivered to us in February 2023. The term loan accrued interest at a floating rate based, at our election, on either a reference rate or a 3-month Term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) (subject to a 1.0% floor), plus an interest rate margin of 7.0% for reference rate borrowings and 8.0% for 3-month Term SOFR borrowings, plus an incremental Term SOFR margin of 0.26161%. We elected the Term SOFR rate which was 15.0604% as of March 31, 2025. Principal on the term loan was only payable at maturity and interest on the term loan was due and payable quarterly for Term SOFR borrowings. We were also required to pay other customary fees and costs in connection with the Blue Torch Credit Facility, including a commitment 45 fee in an amount equal to $2.4 million on the closing date, a $0.3 million agency fee annually and an exit fee in an amount equal to $1.8 million upon termination of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. On June 13, 2022, in connection with the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, we issued warrants to Blue Torch, which were exercisable for an aggregate of 437,024 shares of our Class A common stock with a per share exercise price of $16.08 (the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants). In addition, in connection with the closing of the financing, we paid Urgent Capital LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, a fee for introducing us to the Lenders, for the purpose of loan financing, in the amount equal to $0.6 million in cash and a warrant to purchase 24,834 shares of our Class A common stock with a per share exercise price of $16.08 (the Urgent Warrants). On September 27, 2023, we entered into the Waiver and Amendment No. 2 to Financing Agreement (the Waiver and Amendment) with Blue Torch and the Lenders, which amended the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to (a) waive an event of default under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement arising out of the total annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio being greater than the permitted ratio, (b) amend the financial covenants to provide covenant relief from the maximum debt to annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio and the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio set forth in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement for future periods, and (c) provide for a second amendment exit fee. The second amendment exit fee was $1.8 million (which was an amount equal to one and a half percent (1.50%) of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the term loans on the effective date of the Waiver and Amendment), bore interest from the date of the Waiver and Amendment at Adjusted Term SOFR for a 3-month interest period plus the applicable margin under the Financing Agreement, and was payable to Blue Torch by us in cash upon the termination of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, either as a result of acceleration of the loans or at the final maturity date. The Waiver and Amendment required a repayment by us of $2.5 million of the outstanding principal balance of the term loans and a prepayment premium of $0.05 million, which were paid on October 2, 2023. The Waiver and Amendment also required additional reporting if our liquidity level was less than $35.0 million at any time during a month and revised the minimum liquidity covenant to require liquidity of at least $30.0 million at all times, commencing on September 30, 2023, which in both cases represented a $5.0 million incremental change from the original requirements. On September 27, 2023, in connection with the Waiver and Amendment, we and certain affiliates of Blue Torch amended and restated the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants to reduce the per share exercise price from $16.08 to $5.44. We also concurrently issued new warrants to certain Blue Torch affiliates that are exercisable for an additional 597,082 shares of our Class A common stock at a per share exercise price of $5.44 (the 2023 Blue Torch Warrants and together with the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants and the Urgent Warrants, the Credit Agreement Warrants). The Credit Agreement Warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis. The Credit Agreement Warrants are exercisable for a term beginning on the date of issuance and ending on the earlier to occur of ten years from the date of issuance or the consummation of certain of our acquisitions as set forth in the Credit Agreement Warrants. The number of shares for which the Credit Agreement Warrants are exercisable and the associated exercise price are subject to certain proportional adjustments as set forth in the Credit Agreement Warrants. On April 8, 2024, we entered into Amendment No. 3 to Financing Agreement (the Third Amendment) with Blue Torch and the Lenders, which amended the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to (i) increase the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio for the monthly periods ending June 30, 2024, July 31, 2024, and August 31, 2024, and to decrease the maximum permitted ratio thereafter, and (ii) amend the minimum liquidity covenant to require liquidity of at least $20.0 million at all times, commencing on April 8, 2024, which represented a $10.0 million decrease from the requirement in effect immediately prior to the effective date of the Third Amendment. On April 8, 2024, in accordance with the terms of the Third Amendment, we made a prepayment to Blue Torch of $10.0 million in principal, plus an early termination fee of $0.2 million. On August 27, 2024, we entered into Waiver and Amendment No. 4 to Financing Agreement (the Fourth Amendment) with Blue Torch and the Lenders, which amended the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to (i) waive events of default under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement arising out of the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio being greater than the ratio permitted by the Blue Torch Financing Agreement and the failure to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2024 required by the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, (ii) amend the financial covenants in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to provide immediate covenant relief from the leverage ratios set forth in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement and extend the duration of the annualized recurring revenue (ARR) leverage ratio through December 31, 2024, and (iii) provide for a fourth amendment fee. The fourth amendment fee was in an amount equal to three and a half percent (3.50%) of the aggregate 46 outstanding principal balance of the term loans on the effective date of the Fourth Amendment, bore interest from the date of the Fourth Amendment at Adjusted Term SOFR for a 3-month interest period plus the applicable margin under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, and was paid-in-kind and added to the principal balance of the term loans. On August 27, 2024, in accordance with the terms of the Fourth Amendment, we made a prepayment to Blue Torch of $10.0 million in principal, plus an early termination fee of $0.1 million. On November 11, 2024, we and Blue Torch entered into a forbearance agreement (the Forbearance Agreement), pursuant to which each of the lenders party to the Blue Torch Financing Agreement agreed not to exercise their default-related rights and remedies with respect to certain events of default related to the failure to deliver quarterly financial information as of and for the period ended June 30, 2024 that was required to be provided to the lenders by October 31, 2024, the leverage ratio being greater than required as of June 30, 2024 and our anticipated failure to file the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2024 with the Securities and Exchange Commission by November 15, 2024 (collectively, the Specified Defaults), until the earliest to occur of (A) any other event of default other than the Specified Defaults, (B) the date on which Blue Torch delivered a notice terminating the forbearance period, which notice could have been delivered at any time upon or after the occurrence of an additional event of default or any breach of the Forbearance Agreement or (C) 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on December 24, 2024. On March 12, 2025, we and Blue Torch entered into the Waiver and Amendment No. 5 to Financing Agreement (the Fifth Amendment) to, among other things, (a) waive events of default under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement arising out of the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio being greater than the ratio permitted by the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, the failure to deliver financial projections for the 2025 fiscal year and liquidity being lower than permitted by the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, (b) amend the financial covenants in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to replace the maximum debt to EBITDA ratio with a minimum EBITDA covenant and provide relief on the recurring revenue leverage ratio set forth in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, (c) amend the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to permit us to obtain subordinate financing secured by related liens on such junior indebtedness, (d) increase the applicable margin by 2.50% in the form of PIK interest which was fully earned, paid-in-kind and added to the principal balance of the term loans, and (e) provide for a fifth amendment fee and extension fees. As of March 31, 2025, we were still working with Blue Torch to agree on a final minimum EBITDA covenant and in April 2025, the EBITDA terms were agreed upon by Blue Torch. The fifth amendment fee was equal to $2,500 and was paid in kind by adding such fee to the principal amount after which it bore interest from the date of the Fifth Amendment at the Adjusted Term SOFR for a 3-month interest period plus the applicable margin under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. The Fifth Amendment also provided for an extension fee equal to $1,000, but because the Blue Torch Financing Agreement was terminated and all obligations were paid in full prior to April 30, 2025, the extension fee was waived. If the Blue Torch Financing Agreement had not been terminated and all obligations had not been paid in full on or before April 30, 2025, the extension fee would have been added to the principal balance of the term loans on such date, and an additional extension fee in an equal amount would have been added to the principal balance of the term loans on each date that is 30 days after April 30, 2025 until the Blue Torch Financing Agreement had been terminated and all obligations had been paid in full. The Fifth Amendment also required us to engage a liquidity management advisor reasonably satisfactory to Blue Torch no later than March 21, 2025, and we did so on March 21, 2025. We were in compliance with all applicable financial covenants as of March 31, 2025. On April 25, 2025, we repaid with a portion of the proceeds of the Transactions all obligations and all amounts borrowed, and all obligations have terminated, under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. Government Loan As part of the Acquisition in November 2021, we assumed a loan agreement with the SIF which was recorded at fair value of the debt. As of March 31, 2025, $4.6 million was included in long-term debt, current portion on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets related to the SIF loan agreement. The loan would have been repayable in 15 annual payments beginning February 28, 2026 and would have had a stated interest rate of zero. On April 25, 2025, we repaid with a portion of the proceeds of the Transactions all obligations under the SIF loan agreement. For additional information, see Note 6 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 47 Equity Distribution Agreement On September 14, 2022, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement (the Equity Distribution Agreement) with Canaccord Genuity LLC, as sales agent (the Agent). In accordance with the terms of the Equity Distribution Agreement, we may offer and sell shares of our Class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $85.0 million from time to time through the Agent pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3, which became effective on September 26, 2022. In June 2023, we sold approximately 2.2 million shares of our Class A common stock through this arrangement, resulting in net proceeds of $7.9 million. As of March 31, 2025, approximately $76.8 million of shares were remaining, but had not yet been sold, under the Equity Distribution Agreement. Because of the late filings of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2024 and September 30, 2024, we are unable to make sales pursuant to the Equity Distribution Agreement until we regain our eligibility to use Form S-3.Cash Flows The following table summarizes our net cash used in operating activities, net cash used in investing activities, and net cash provided by financing activities for the periods indicated: As of March 31, (in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash used in operating activities $ (8,429 ) $ (8,850 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (8,901 ) $ (7,179 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 37,937 $ 38,148 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, expenses related to our technology infrastructure, expenses related to our computing infrastructure (including computing power, database storage and content delivery costs), building infrastructure costs (including leases for office space), fees for third-party services, and marketing program costs. Net cash used in operating activities was $8.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The net cash used in operating activities reflected our net loss of $20.7 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $10.2 million and a net decrease of $3.8 million in net operating assets. Non-cash items primarily consisted of a $5.8 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, a $5.2 million loss on decommissioned satellites and disposal of assets, $4.4 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $3.9 million of stock-based compensation expense, a $1.0 million change in fair value of contingent earnout liability, $0.9 million of debt issuance amortization costs, $0.8 million of other, net, and $0.7 million of amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets. Changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $3.8 million increase in other accrued expenses, a $2.6 million decrease in accounts receivable, net, a $2.0 million increase in contract liabilities, a $0.7 million increase in accrued wages and benefits, and a $0.5 million decrease in other long-term assets, partially offset by a $3.8 million decrease in accounts payable, a $1.6 million increase in contract assets, a $0.6 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $0.2 million increase in other current assets. Net cash used in operating activities was $8.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This reflected our net loss of $25.5 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $19.2 million and a net increase of $2.8 million in net operating assets. Non-cash items primarily consisted of $6.8 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $4.2 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, $3.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, $2.4 million of issuance of stock warrants expense, $0.9 million of debt issuance amortization costs, $0.8 million of amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets, a $0.4 million loss on decommissioned satellites and impairment of assets, and a $0.2 gain on other, net. Changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily included a $7.1 million decrease in contract liabilities, a $2.6 million increase in accounts receivable, net, a $1.5 million decrease in accounts payable, a $0.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities, and a $0.6 million increase in contract assets, partially offset by an $8.1 million decrease in other current assets, a $1.0 million increase in other accrued expenses, a $0.5 million decrease in other long-term assets, and a $0.3 million increase in accrued wages and benefits. 48 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to cash used for business acquisitions, the procurement, development, and deployment of capital assets, including satellites and related launch costs, ground stations, machinery and equipment, furniture, computer equipment and software, and leasehold improvements. The following table summarizes our net cash used in investing activities relating to capital expenditures by source of spend: Three Months ended March 31, % (dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Change Spire platform / Infrastructure $ 1,814 $ 609 198 % Customer funded (Space Services) 7,087 6,450 10 % Total CapEx $ 8,901 $ 7,059 26 % Net cash used in investing activities was $8.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The net cash used in investing activities was driven by purchases of property and equipment of $8.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was driven by purchases of $10.9 million in short-term investments and $7.1 million of investment in property and equipment, partially offset by $10.8 million in maturities of short-term investments.Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities relate primarily to net proceeds from the securities purchase agreements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $37.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025. The net cash provided by financing activities was driven by proceeds from the 2025 Private Placement of $37.3 million, and proceeds from exercise of stock options of $0.6 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $38.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. This was driven by $37.9 million of proceeds from securities purchase agreements with Signal Ocean Ltd. and certain institutional investors and $0.3 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options.Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In the preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our 2024 Form 10-K/A.Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted and Not Yet Adopted See Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as modified by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act). Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised 49 accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date that we are (i) no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with the new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.Smaller Reporting Company Status Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (i) the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $250 million as of the prior June 30, or (ii) our annual revenues exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30.