Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in recent periods may not be indicative of future performance. We have grown revenue over recent periods, but our recent revenue growth rate and financial performance should not be considered indicative of our future performance. You should not rely on our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue or revenue growth in future periods. We expect our future revenue growth rates to decline compared to prior fiscal years due to a number of reasons, which may include more challenging comparisons to prior periods, slowing demand for our platform, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or market saturation, and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. We may fail to effectively manage our growth, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are a rapidly growing company, and our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to manage our growth successfully. For example, the number of ARR Solution Customers was 733 as of December 31, 2022, an increase from 598 as of December 31, 2021. To effectively manage this growth, we will need to continue to improve and expand our operating and administrative systems, financial infrastructure, financial controls, technological operations infrastructure, and our internal IT systems, which we may not be able to do efficiently in a timely manner, or at all. To do so, we may seek to deploy products and services from third-party providers, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may not perform to our expectations. For the definition of ARR and ARR Solution Customers, see the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business Metrics . Our ability to manage our growth will also depend in large part upon a number of other factors, including our ability to rapidly attract and retain qualified technical personnel in order to continue to develop reliable and flexible solutions and services that respond to evolving customer needs and our ability to improve and expand our sales team to keep customers informed regarding the key selling points and features of our platform. We must also successfully implement our sales and marketing strategy and respond to competitive developments. Any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination across our organization. Because our operations are geographically diverse and increasingly complex, our personnel resources and infrastructure could become strained, and our reputation in the market and our ability to successfully manage and grow our business may be adversely affected. The complex nature of our Space Services business and the expansion of our platform, services, and customer base have placed increased demands on our management and operations, and further growth, if any, may place additional strains on our resources in the future. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have a history of net losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have incurred net losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur net losses in the near future. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years, as we continue to hire additional personnel, particularly in sales and marketing and research and development, expand our operations and infrastructure, both domestically and internationally, and continue to develop our platforms features. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. In addition to the expected costs to grow our business, we also expect to continue to incur increased legal, accounting, and other expenses as a public company. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to offset the increases in our operating expenses will limit our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Further, if we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our results of operations vary and are unpredictable from period to period, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict. Some of the factors that may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period include: our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, and expand the adoption of our platform, particularly to our largest customers; market acceptance and the level of demand for our platform; the quality and level of the execution of our business strategy and operating plan; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; 16 the competitive conditions in the industry, including consolidation within the industry, strategic initiatives by us or by competitors, or introduction of new services by us or our competitors; the length of our sales cycle, including the timing of upgrades or renewals; the volume of sales generated by subscription sales as opposed to project-based services; our ability to successfully expand internationally and penetrate key markets; pricing pressure as a result of competition or otherwise; our ability to develop and respond to new technologies; the impact and costs, including those with respect to integration, related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies, or intellectual property rights; increases in and the timing of operating expenses that we may incur to grow our operations and to remain competitive; the cost and availability of components, including any changes to our supply or manufacturing partners; limited availability of appropriate launch windows, satellite damage or destruction during launch, launch failures, incorrect orbital placement of satellites, or losses due to satellites otherwise deorbiting prior to the end of their useful life; service outages or security breaches or incidents and any related occurrences; trade protection measures, such as tariffs or duties; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment; adverse litigation judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs; and general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, supply chain impacts, inflation and geopolitical uncertainty and instability, such as the conflict in Ukraine and its impacts on the region and the global economy. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. In addition, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on customer buying habits, and whether they are purchasing a subscription or a project-based data solution. The timing of customer acceptance on project-based deliverables may impact or delay our recognition of revenue from such projects. The variability of our results of operations or other operating estimates could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Uncertain macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including as a result of inflationary pressures, currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, continuing uncertainty surrounding the effects of COVID-19, and rising interest rates cause instability and volatility in the global financial markets and disruptions within our industries that have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact our business, our financial results, and our stock price. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Negative conditions in the general economy in either the United States or abroad, including conditions resulting from financial and credit market fluctuations, increased inflation and interest rates, changes in economic policy, trade uncertainty, including changes in tariffs, sanctions, international treaties, and other trade restrictions, the occurrence of a natural disaster or global public health crisis, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or armed conflicts, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine, could continue to cause a decrease in corporate spending on data offerings in general and negatively affect the growth of our business. These conditions could make it extremely difficult for us and our customers to forecast and plan future business activities accurately and have caused, and could continue to cause, our customers to re-evaluate their decision to purchase our offerings, resulting in delay and lengthening of our sales cycles and/or contract cancellations. For example, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may in the future cause our customers to reduce their spending on, or the duration of, their contracts with us, or request concessions including extended payment terms or better pricing. Further, during challenging economic times, our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us, if at all. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial downturn in any of the industries in which our customers operate may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on data offerings. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. To the extent purchases of our offerings are perceived by customers and potential customers to be discretionary, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general information technology spending. In addition, rising interest rates have and could continue to negatively affect businesses across many industries, including by increasing our existing and prospective customers costs and constraining their budgets. Increasing interest rates in 2022 resulted in higher interest expenses for us, as our credit facility is based on a floating interest rate. 17 Further, the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the continuing conflict led to additional global sanctions, which at times caused scheduling shifts or launch cancellations by third-party satellite launch providers, which delayed our revenue recognition of certain sales contracts. These sanctions and potential additional sanctions or related issues from global conflicts could further negatively impact our business and financial results. Additionally, events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar risks, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. For example, on March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was closed by the California Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, and we are still in the process of transferring the approximately $31.2 million of cash and cash equivalents that we had on deposit at SVB to other banks. Although our ongoing cash management strategy is to maintain deposit accounts at multiple financial institutions, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. If other banks and financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents may be threatened and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If any of these factors continue or worsen, and/or if new macroeconomic or geopolitical issues arise, our results and financial condition could be further negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, downturn, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry or geography. Any downturn of the general economy or industries in which we operate would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by pandemics, natural disasters, political crises, or other unexpected events. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and significant disruptions including tsunamis, tornados, floods, hurricanes, other extreme or unusual weather conditions, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, epidemics or pandemics, acts of war or terrorism or disruptive political events where our facilities or the launch facilities of our transport partners are located, or where our third-party suppliers facilities are located, power shortages and blackouts, aging infrastructure and telecommunications failures. Further, climate change has increased, and may continue to increase, the rate, size, and scope of natural disasters. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions to our operations or the operations of suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, or customers, which could affect our ability to maintain launch schedules or fulfill our customer contracts. The availability of our services depends on the continuing operation of our satellite operations infrastructure, satellite manufacturing operations, information technology and communications systems. Any downtime, damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, aging infrastructure, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, cyberattacks or other attempts to harm our systems. The conflict in Ukraine and associated activities in Ukraine and Russia may increase the risk of cyberattacks on various types of infrastructure and operations. We believe those risks may be particularly heightened for us and other providers of satellite infrastructure and space operations, and that we face heightened risks of cyberattacks on our infrastructure, systems, and operations in connection with the conflict in Ukraine and associated activities in Ukraine and Russia. Satellites use highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and therefore are subject to significant operational risks, including exposure to space debris and other spacecraft, while in orbit. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, or anomalies, that have occurred and may continue to occur in our satellites. Exposure of our satellites to an unanticipated catastrophic event, such as a meteor shower, coronal mass ejection or a collision with space debris, could reduce the performance of, or completely destroy, the affected satellite and/or constellation. In addition, satellites in low earth orbit have a limited life cycle and they could become compromised over their designated operational life span. We anticipate that our satellites will have an expected end-of-commercial-service life of three years. It is possible that the actual commercial service lives of our satellites will be shorter than anticipated. Some of the principal satellite anomalies that may affect the actual commercial service lives of our satellites include: Mechanical and electrical failures due to manufacturing error or defect, including: mechanical failures that degrade the functionality of a satellite, such as the failure of solar array panel drive mechanisms, rate gyros, or momentum wheels; antenna failures and defects that degrade the communications capability of the satellite; circuit failures that reduce the power output of the solar array panels on the satellites; failure of the battery cells that power the payload and spacecraft operations during daily solar eclipse periods; power system failures that result in a shutdown or loss of the satellite; avionics system failures, including GPS, that degrade or cause loss of the satellite; altitude control system failures that degrade or cause the inoperability of the satellite; transmitter or receiver failures that degrade or cause the inability of the satellite to communicate with our ground stations; 18 communications system failures that affect overall system capacity; satellite computer or processor re-boots or failures that impair or cause the inoperability of the satellites; and radio frequency interference emitted internally or externally from the spacecraft affecting the communication links. Equipment degradation during the satellites lifetime, including: degradation of the batteries ability to accept a full charge; degradation of solar array panels due to radiation; general degradation resulting from operating in the harsh space environment, such as from solar flares; degradation or failure of reaction wheels; degradation of the thermal control surfaces; degradation and/or corruption of memory devices; and system failures that degrade the ability to reposition the satellite. Deficiencies of control or communications software, including: failure of the charging algorithm that may damage the satellites batteries; problems with the communications functions of the satellite; limitations on the satellites digital signal processing capability that limit satellite communications capacity; and problems with the fault control mechanisms embedded in the satellite. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, anomalies in some of the categories described above. The effects of these anomalies include, but are not limited to, failure of the satellite, degraded communications performance, reduced power available to the satellite in sunlight and/or eclipse, battery overcharging or undercharging and limitations on satellite communications capacity. Some of these effects may be increased during periods of greater message traffic and could result in our system requiring more than one attempt to send messages before they get through to our satellites. Although these multiple re-try effects do not result in lost messages, they could lead to increased messaging latencies for the end user and reduced throughput for our system. We consider a satellite failed only when it can no longer provide any data service, and we do not intend to undertake further efforts to return it to service. We cannot provide assurance that any efforts we make in this area will succeed or adequately address the effects of any anomalies in a timely manner or at all. Most, if not all, of the satellite anomalies or debris collision damage cannot be corrected once the satellites are placed in orbit. Any satellite anomalies in the future may result in monetary losses, delays, and impairment of services, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of government customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenue. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with federal, state, local, and foreign governments, which accounted for approximately 34% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022. We believe that the future success and growth of our business will depend in part on our ability to continue to maintain and expand government contracts. Within the government channel, approximately 69% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, was generated by three government customers. Contracts with any government entity may be terminated or suspended by the government at any time, with or without cause. There can be no assurance that any contract with the government of any jurisdiction will not be terminated or suspended in the future. Although we attempt to ensure that government contracts have standard provisions such as termination for convenience language which reimburses us for reasonable costs incurred, the payments are not assured and may not be sufficient to fully compensate us for any early termination of a contract. The loss of one or more of our government customers, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers, could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our contracts with government entities are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our services are incorporated into many different domestic and international government programs. Whether we contract directly with the U.S. government, a foreign government, or one of their respective agencies, or indirectly as a subcontractor or team member, our contracts and subcontracts with government entities are subject to special risks. For example: Changes in government administration and national and international priorities could have a significant impact on national or international government spending priorities and the efficient handling of routine contractual matters. These changes could have a negative impact on our business in the future. Because we contract to supply services to U.S. and foreign governments and their prime and subcontractors, we may compete for contracts in a competitive bidding process. We may compete directly with other suppliers or align with a prime or subcontractor competing for a contract. Further, foreign governments may favor their domestic providers when awarding contracts over us. We may not be awarded the contract if the pricing or solution offering is not competitive, either at our level or the prime or subcontractor level. In addition, in the event we are awarded a contract, we are subject to protests by losing bidders of contract awards that can result in the reopening of the bidding process and changes in governmental policies or regulations and other political factors. In addition, we may be 19 subject to multiple rebid requirements over the life of a government program in order to continue to participate in such program, which can result in the loss of the program or significantly reduce our revenue or margin from the program. Government program requirements for more frequent technology refreshes may lead to increased costs and lower long-term revenues. Government contracts often contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government customers with additional rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government customers, among other things, to: Terminate existing contracts for convenience with short notice; Reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts; Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; Claim rights in solutions, systems, or technology produced by us, appropriate such work-product for their continued use without continuing to contract for our services, and disclose such work-product to third parties, including other government agencies and our competitors, which could harm our competitive position; Prohibit future procurement awards for particular future contracts due to a finding of organizational conflicts of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors, or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractors judgment; Subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; Suspend or debar us from doing business with the applicable government; Demand a set-off of amounts due to us on other contracts to satisfy amounts due to a contract default termination on a specific contract; and Control or prohibit the export of our services. If a customer were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant government contracts, or if a government were to suspend or debar us from doing business with such government, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially harmed. Additional risks and uncertainties related to our government contracts include, but are not limited to, the following: We are subject to the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (the DFARS), and the Department of Defense, and other federal cybersecurity requirements, in connection with our defense work for the U.S. government and prime contractors. Amendments to cybersecurity requirements such as through amendments to the Federal Acquisition Regulation or DFARS, may increase our costs or delay the award of contracts if we are unable to certify that we satisfy such cybersecurity requirements. The U.S. government or a prime contractor customer could require us to relinquish data rights to a product in connection with performing work on a government contract, which could lead to a loss of valuable technology and intellectual property in order to participate in a government program. We may need to invest additional capital to build out higher level security infrastructure at certain of our facilities to win contracts related to government programs with higher level security requirements. Failure to invest in such infrastructure may limit our ability to obtain new contracts with such government programs. We have certain contracts which were awarded to us as part of the U.S. federal governments small business program. As our revenue grows, we may be deemed to be other than small, which could reduce our eligibility for proposal opportunities or reduce our ability to secure new contracts. Our satellites and platform could fail to perform or perform at reduced levels of service because of technological malfunctions, satellite failures or deficiencies, or other performance failures, which would seriously harm our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our satellites and platform are exposed to the risks inherent in large-scale, complex satellite systems employing advanced technology. We rely on data collected from a number of sources including data obtained from our satellites and from third parties and may become unable or limited in our ability to receive such data. For example, satellites can temporarily go out of service and be recovered, or cease to function for reasons beyond our control, including the quality of design and construction, the supply of the battery, the expected gradual environmental degradation of solar panels, the durability of various satellite components and the orbits and space environments in which the satellites are placed and operated. Electrostatic storms, collisions with other objects or actions by malicious actors, including cyber-related events, could also damage the satellites and subject us to liability for any damages caused to other spacecraft. Additionally, in certain instances, governments may discontinue for periods of time the access to or operation of a satellite for any particular area on the Earth and for various reasons may not permit transmission of certain data, whether from a satellite owned by the government or not. Satellites can experience malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred and may occur in the future with respect to our satellites. Any single anomaly could materially and adversely affect our ability to utilize the satellite. Anomalies may also reduce the expected 20 capacity, commercial operation and/or useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the amount of space data collected, which, if material, could impact revenue or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites or satellite capacity earlier than planned and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if a satellite experiences a malfunction, our backup satellite capacity may be insufficient to meet all of our customers needs or cause service interruptions, and we may need to potentially blackout or reduce service to certain customers, which would adversely affect our relationships with our customers and result in loss of revenues. Satellites have certain redundant systems which can fail partially or in their entirety and accordingly satellites may operate for extended periods without all redundant systems in operation, but with single points of failure. The failure of satellite components could cause damage to or loss of the use of a satellite before the end of its expected useful life. Certain of our satellites are nearing the end of their expected useful lives. As they do so, the performance of each satellite could start to gradually decline. We can offer no assurance that satellites will maintain their prescribed orbits or remain operational, and we may not have replacement satellites that are immediately available. There can be no assurance as to the actual useful life of a satellite or that the useful life of individual components will be consistent with their design life. A number of factors will impact the useful lives of our satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts and availability of any replacement components, and the occurrence of any anomaly or series of anomalies or other risks affecting the satellites during launch and in orbit. In addition, any improvements in technology may make obsolete our existing satellites or any component of our satellites prior to the end of their lives. If our satellites and related equipment have shorter useful lives than we currently anticipate, this may lead to increased expenses from earlier than expected replacement satellites and/or declines in actual or planned revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our satellites have in the past and may in the future contain defects, errors, or vulnerabilities, or may not perform as contemplated. These defects, errors, or vulnerabilities could result in exposure of data, data loss, data leakage, unanticipated downtime, or other events that would result in harm to our reputation, loss of customers or revenue, refunds, service terminations, or lack of market acceptance of our platform. Errors, viruses, or bugs may also be present in data, software, or hardware that we acquire or license from third parties and incorporate into our platform or in third-party software or hardware that our customers use in conjunction with our platform. Our customers proprietary software and network firewall protections may corrupt data from our offerings and create difficulties in implementing our solutions. We regularly develop and introduce new product enhancements, including changes to our satellite designs, upgrades to our operating systems and enhancements to our user interfaces. Failure to adequately de-risk these developments before they are deployed may adversely affect our ability to collect, process and deliver data. From time to time we may introduce a high concentration of changes at once, which could amplify these risks. Upgrades may be delayed, partially deployed or inadequately communicated to customers. Major sustained failures relating to these issues could result in increased costs and/or reduced or delayed revenue, which could harm our business, financial results and results of operations. Any disruption to our satellites, platform, services, information systems, or infrastructure could result in the inability or reduced ability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. These customers include government agencies conducting mission-critical work throughout the world, as well as consumers and businesses located in remote areas of the world and operating under harsh environmental conditions. Any disruption to our services or extended periods of reduced levels of service could cause us to lose customers or revenue, result in delays or cancellations of future implementations of our services, result in failure to attract customers, or result in litigation, customer service, or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. In addition, certain components of our platform are located in foreign countries, and as a result, are potentially subject to governmental, regulatory, or other actions in such countries which could force us to limit the operations of, or completely shut down, components of our system, including our ground stations or other portions of our infrastructure. The failure of any of the diverse and dispersed elements of the system, including satellites, network control center or backup control center, and ground stations, to function and coordinate as required could render the system unable to perform at the quality and capacity levels required for success. Any system failures, repeated solution failures, shortened satellite commercial service life, or extended reduced levels of service could reduce our sales, increase costs, or result in warranty or liability claims and seriously harm our business, financial results, and results of operations. Satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, launch failures, and damage or destruction during launch, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. Delays in the construction of future satellites and the procurement of requisite components and third-party launch vehicles, limited availability of appropriate launch windows, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, satellite damage or destruction during launch or deployment, launch failures, or incorrect orbital placement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of, or damage to, a satellite due to a launch failure could result in significant increased expenses from earlier than expected replacement satellites and delays in anticipated revenue. Any significant delay in the commencement of service of a satellite could delay or potentially permanently reduce the revenue anticipated to be generated by that satellite. In addition, if the loss of satellites was material, we might not be able to accommodate customers with sufficient data to meet minimum service level agreements until replacement satellites are available, and we may not have on hand, or be able to obtain in a timely manner, the necessary funds to cover the cost of any necessary satellite replacement. In addition, appropriate launch windows for satellites in our industry are limited and may become more so as additional satellite networks and other spacecraft are launched and/or as space debris becomes more common. Coordinating with partners and regulators to reserve launch windows and prepare for launches may as a result become more difficult over time. An extended launch delay, a launch failure, launch underperformance, or a perceived launch delay could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Technical malfunctions, performance failures, or other issues or difficulties with our ground stations could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 The ongoing operations of our satellite constellation and data services rely on the functionality of our ground stations. We have in the past experienced and may continue to experience technical difficulties or mechanical issues with our ground stations which may negatively impact service in the region covered by that ground station. Our ground stations are often located in remote regions of the world and not easily accessible. Any continued or future restrictions on travel may affect our ability to repair or service our ground stations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience a partial or total loss of one or more of our ground stations due to disasters such as tsunamis, tornados, floods, hurricanes, other extreme or unusual weather events, earthquakes, fires, acts of war or terrorism, or other catastrophic events. A failure at one or more of our ground stations could cause a delayed, partial, or complete loss of service for our customers. We may experience a failure in the necessary equipment at our ground stations, or in the communication links between our ground stations. Additionally, our ground stations are located on property that is not owned by us. A failure at any of our ground stations, facilities, or in the communications links between our facilities, or in our ability to maintain our ground station leases for any reason, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, we rely, at times, on third parties to perform maintenance on and repair our ground stations. If our relationship with these third parties deteriorates or the third parties become unable or unwilling to maintain the ground stations, or if there are changes in the applicable regulations that require us to give up any or all of our ownership interests in any of the ground stations, our control over our satellite data could be diminished and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We face intense competition and could face pricing pressure from, and lose market share to, our competitors, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The maritime, aviation, and weather data industries are fragmented and highly competitive and characterized by rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, and industry standards, and frequent introductions of improvements to existing offerings. Our primary competitors in these industries include companies that specialize in one or more services similar to those offered by us on a local or regional basis. We also compete with global, national, regional, and local firms and government entities specializing in these industries. Both commercial and government organizations have indicated that they might build and launch satellites capable of collecting earth observation information from space. The U.S. government and foreign governments have developed and may in the future develop their own data collection tools and data analytics solutions, which could reduce their reliance on us and other commercial suppliers. In addition, such governments could sell or provide free of charge similar data and analytics and thereby compete with our offerings. Some of our primary competitors include, in our maritime data vertical, Orbcomm Inc., in our aviation data vertical, Aireon LLC, and in our weather data vertical, GeoOptics, Inc. with respect to our radio occultation data services. Some of our primary competitors also include analytics companies such as AccuWeather, Inc., Weathernews Inc., MeteoGroup (acquired by DTN, LLC), Tomorrow.ai, Climavision and The Weather Company with respect to predictive analytics. We compete with companies such as AAC Clyde Space, GomSpace A/S, NanoAvionics LLC, ISISSpace and Open Cosmos Ltd. in our Space Services channel. Additionally, many governmental agencies, such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ("NOAA"), provide weather data at little to no cost. We are constantly exposed to the risk that our competitors may utilize data they receive from us to develop and offer competing products and services to their customers, which may reduce the overall demand for our products and services. Our competitors may also implement disruptive technology, or new technology before we do, or may offer lower prices, additional offerings or other incentives that we cannot or will not offer. We can give no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors or increase our market share. Our business model of delivering data and analytics gathered from a custom constellation of satellites in space is still relatively new and has only recently gained market traction. Moreover, many established businesses are aggressively competing against us and have offerings that have functionalities similar to those offered by us. We expect competition to increase as other established and emerging companies enter this market, as customer requirements evolve, and as new offerings and technologies are introduced. If we are unable to anticipate or effectively react to these competitive challenges, our competitive position would weaken, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages, such as: greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and larger customer bases; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with suppliers, manufacturers, and customers; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions and enter into strategic partnerships; lower labor and research and development costs; larger and more mature intellectual property rights portfolios; and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources. Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, the emergence of new entrants into the market, partnering or acquisitions by our competitors, or continuing market consolidation. New innovative start-up companies and competitors that are making significant investments in research and development may invent similar or superior offerings and technologies that compete with our offerings. In addition to satellite-based competitors, terrestrial data service providers could further expand into rural and remote areas and provide 22 some of the same general types of offerings that we provide. Potential customers may also believe that substitute technologies that have similar functionality or features as our platform are sufficient for their needs, or they may believe that point solutions that address narrower industry segments overall are nonetheless adequate for their needs. Some of our current or potential competitors have made or could make acquisitions of businesses or establish cooperative relationships that may allow them to offer more directly competitive and comprehensive offerings than were previously offered and may adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors may be able to accelerate the adoption of new technologies that better address customer needs, devote greater resources to bring these products and services to market, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than us. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in fewer orders, reduced revenue and margins, and loss of market share. In addition, it is possible that industry consolidation may impact customers perceptions of the viability of smaller or even mid-size companies and consequently reduce customers willingness to purchase from such firms. Additionally, competition continues to increase in the markets in which we operate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, including from new and emerging companies, which could lead to increased pricing pressures. Our competitors vary in size, and some may have substantially broader and more diverse offerings, which may allow them to leverage their relationships based on other offerings or incorporate functionality into existing offerings to gain business in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing access to our platform, including through selling at zero or negative margins, offering concessions, bundling offerings, or maintaining closed technology platforms. Any decrease in the subscription prices for our services, without a corresponding decrease in costs or increase in volume, would adversely impact our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Our profitability would also be adversely affected by any shift towards lower-tiered subscription packages. If we are unable to maintain our pricing or market share due to competitive pressures or other factors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our reputation and brand are important to our success, and we may not be able to maintain and enhance our reputation and brand, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation as a leading global provider of space-based data and analytics is critical to our relationship with our existing customers and our ability to attract new customers. The successful promotion of our brand will depend on a number of factors, including our marketing efforts, our ability to continue to develop high-quality features for our platform, our ability to successfully differentiate our platform from those of our competitors, our ability to promote and maintain the reputation of our platform for data security, and our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reports of our platform, as well as the offerings of our competitors, and perception of our platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reports. If these reports are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors, our reputation and brand may be adversely affected. Additionally, the performance of our channel partners may affect our reputation and brand if customers do not have a positive experience with our platform as implemented by our channel partners or with the implementation generally. At times, competitors may adopt trade names or trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. Additionally, our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks, or if we are otherwise unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new geographies and markets, and if more sales are generated through our channel partners. We may not realize any increase in revenue from such brand promotion initiatives, or any increase in revenue may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Rapid and significant technological changes in the satellite industry or the introduction of a new service solution to the market that reduces or eliminates our service performance advantage may harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The satellite communications industry is subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. We may face competition from companies using new service solutions, innovative technologies, and equipment, including new low earth orbit constellations and expansion of existing geostationary satellite systems or new technology that could eliminate the need for a satellite system. New service solutions and technologies could render our offerings obsolete or less competitive by satisfying customer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. For example, if new transmitters are deployed that emit in the same frequencies as automatic identification system (AIS,), they might cause our AIS services to be severely compromised or disabled or alternatively if a material number of vessels were to turn off their AIS transmitting devices during their voyages then this would reduce the utility of our AIS data services. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, flexibility, efficiency, or capabilities, as well as continuing improvements in terrestrial technologies. In order for our business to keep pace with technological changes and remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital expenditures, including capital to design and launch new platform features and services. New technologies may also be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available for us to use. Any failure to implement new technology within our platform may compromise our ability to compete. There is a risk that a competitor in the future may conceive of and implement a different technology solution that would approach or exceed the performance capability of our solutions, which would adversely affect our revenues, margin and market share. 23 For certain of our offerings, we are dependent on the continued operation of and access to allocated bands in the radio frequency spectrum and various GNSS. Any curtailment of the operating capability of these systems or limitations on our access to, or use of the signals, or discontinuance of service could result in degradation of our services or performance and may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, as we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new technological, operational, compliance, regulatory, and administrative risks and challenges, including risks and challenges unfamiliar to us. We may not be able to mitigate these risks and challenges to achieve our anticipated growth or successfully increase our market share, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes to our subscription model could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers. We offer a multi-tiered subscription model for our platform, in addition to our project-based services. We are continuing to iterate and optimize our business models as we evaluate customer preferences, needs, and use of our platform and services, and expect that our business models will continue to evolve. Many factors could significantly affect our pricing strategies, including operating costs, our competitors pricing and marketing strategies, customer use patterns, and general economic conditions. We may face downward pressure from our customers regarding our pricing and competitors with different pricing models may attract customers that prefer the competitors pricing models over our multi-tiered subscription model, which would cause us to lose business or modify our subscription model, both of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes to our subscription model and model for our project-based services may also affect our revenue recognition and other accounting policies, which may adversely affect our results of operations in any given fiscal period. Certain of our competitors or potential competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced solutions, a broader range of services and features, or greater flexibility and customization in their offerings. Similarly, certain competitors may use marketing strategies that enable them to attract or retain new customers at a lower cost. Moreover, our customers may demand substantial price discounts as part of the negotiation of contracts. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to reduce the pricing for our services or to increase our sales and marketing and other expenses to attract and retain customers in response to competitive pressures. We have launched, and may in the future launch, new pricing strategies and initiatives, or modify existing business models, any of which may not ultimately be successful in attracting and retaining customers. Any such changes to our subscription model or the model for our project-based services or our ability to efficiently price our services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable for certain channels and services, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts and the length and variability of our sales cycle for certain of our offerings, such as our project-based services, and for certain of our customers, such as government departments and agencies. The length of our sales cycle, from initial contact with our sales team to a contractual commitment from a customer, can also vary substantially from customer to customer based on customer size, industry, maturity, profitability, whether we are launching a new solution, and deal complexity and customization. Our sales cycle can vary considerably and may be lengthened and made more uncertain by regional or global events, inflation, rising interest rates and other global economic and political uncertainties. Such events have resulted in and may continue to cause a general reduction in spending on data by our customers, which will further affect our ability to estimate not only the length of the sales cycle, but also the anticipated size of potential subscriptions. Further, our sales cycle may lengthen as we continue to focus our sales efforts on large enterprises and on our Space Services. For example, large organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle and product purchases by large organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and administrative, processing and other delays. In addition, our results of operations depend, in part, on subscription renewals from customers and increasing sales and upgrades to our existing customers, which may also be reduced or delayed as a result of regional or global events. If a customer does not renew on time or as expected, it can negatively affect our revenue for a given period. It is difficult to predict whether or exactly when we will make a sale to a potential customer or if we can renew or increase sales to our existing customers. As a result, initial sales or renewals have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to what we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. We may in the future make changes to our subscription model, which may affect the length of our sales cycle and our ability to predict the length of our sales cycle or the anticipated size of potential subscriptions. The loss or delay of one or more transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is delayed. We depend on our sales force, and we may fail to attract, retain, motivate, or adequately train our sales force, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to increase our customer base, achieve broader market acceptance of our platform, grow our revenue, and achieve and sustain profitability will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities, particularly our direct sales efforts. We depend on our sales force to obtain new customers and to drive additional sales to existing customers by selling them new subscriptions and expanding the value of their existing subscriptions. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel, including sales representatives, sales managers, and sales engineers, with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to recruit, train, and retain sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. Our hiring, training, and retention efforts have been, and may further be, hindered by the constraints placed on our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including measures that we take proactively and those that are imposed upon us by government authorities. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity, and our remote and online onboarding and training processes may be less effective and take longer. Further, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional set up and upfront costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. If we are unable to attract, retain, motivate and adequately train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, if our 24 sales personnel do not reach significant levels of productivity in a timely manner, or if our sales personnel are not successful in converting potential customers into new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we spend significant amounts on advertising and other marketing campaigns to acquire new customers. While we seek to deploy our marketing strategies in a manner most likely to encourage efficient customer acquisition, we may fail to identify marketing opportunities that satisfy our anticipated return on marketing spend as we scale our investments in marketing, and may fail to accurately predict customer acquisition and behavior. If any of our advertising and other marketing campaigns prove less successful than anticipated in attracting new customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will result in increased sales. The COVID-19 pandemic has also changed the way we interact with our customers and prospective customers. We have, and may continue to, alter, postpone, or cancel planned customer, employee, and industry events or shift them to a virtual only format. These and other changes in the ways in which we interact with and market to our customers and prospective customers could adversely impact our business if they prove to be less effective than in-person events. Our ability to increase sales depends, in part, on the quality of our customer support and the ease of our customer experience, and a failure to offer high quality customer support and customer experience would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our customers may depend on our technical support services to resolve issues relating to our platform. If we do not succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve issues or provide effective ongoing education related to our platform, our reputation could be harmed, and our existing customers may not renew or upgrade their subscriptions or may cancel their contracts. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, and retaining adequate customer support resources, our ability to provide adequate and timely support to our customers, and our customers satisfaction with our platform, will be adversely affected. Our failure to provide and maintain high quality customer support would harm our reputation and brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We provide minimum service level commitments to certain of our customers, and our failure to meet these commitments could cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, which could harm our results of operations. Certain of our customer agreements currently, and new customer agreements may in the future, provide minimum service level commitments, such as specifications regarding the availability, functionality, and performance of our platform. The loss of one or more of our satellites or problems with our ground stations could cause our service to fall below minimum service level commitments. Any failure of or disruption to our infrastructure could impact the performance of our platform and the availability of our services to customers. If we are unable to meet our stated service level commitments or if we suffer extended periods of poor performance or unavailability of our platform, we may be contractually obligated to provide affected customers with service credits or services at no or reduced cost, and, in certain cases, face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts related to unused subscriptions. If we suffer performance issues or downtime that exceeds the service level commitments under our contracts with our customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Further, in the normal course of business, we have entered and may in the future enter into agreements that provide for indemnification and guarantees to counterparties in transactions involving debt financing, sales of services, purchases and development of assets and operating leases. The nature of almost all of these indemnifications may prevent us from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount that we could be required to pay counterparties. If these payments were to become significant, future liquidity, capital resources, and our credit risk profile may be adversely affected. We may fail to cost-effectively acquire new customers or obtain renewals, upgrades, or expansions from our existing customers, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued growth depends, in part, on our ability to cost-effectively acquire new customers. Numerous factors, however, may impede our ability to add new customers, including our failure to attract, effectively train, retain, and motivate sales and marketing personnel, our failure to develop or expand relationships with third parties, our inability to convert initial usage into ongoing utilization of our solutions, and our failure to successfully deliver our services and provide quality customer support once delivered. Our success also depends, in part, on our customers renewing their subscriptions when existing contract terms expire, and our ability to expand our relationships with our existing customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew or upgrade their subscriptions, and in the normal course of business, some customers have elected not to renew. In addition, our customers may decide not to renew their subscriptions with a similar contract period or at the same prices or terms or may decide to downgrade their subscriptions. Uncertain macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, including as a result of inflationary pressures, currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, continuing uncertainty surrounding the effects of COVID-19, and rising interest rates may result in longer and unpredictable sales cycles, could result in potential customers deciding not to contract with us or current customers deciding not to renew, could cause delays in renewal, upgrade, or expansion decisions for some of our existing customers, may reduce the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, and could reduce the duration of subscriptions. In addition, these situations could result in increased customer churn, a lengthening of our sales cycle with some of our potential customers, or reduced contract value with prospective or existing customers. Our customer retention or our customers use of our platform may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our platform and our customer support, our subscription model, our project-based services model, the prices, features, or perceived value of competing offerings, changes to our offerings, or general economic conditions. We will need to 25 continue to maintain or improve our ARR Net Retention Rate to support our growth, and our ability to expand our relationships with customers may require more sophisticated and costly sales efforts. If our customers renewals or expansions fall below expectations, and as a result our ARR Net Retention Rate decreases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to expand our relationship with our customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our platform, introduce compelling new features, and address additional use cases. The success of any new or enhanced features depends on several factors, including market demand for the enhanced features, timely completion and delivery, adequate quality testing, and competitive pricing. If we are unable to successfully develop new features, enhance our existing features to meet customer requirements, or otherwise gain broader market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our customers do not renew, upgrade, or expand their subscriptions, defer their subscriptions to a later date, renew their subscriptions on less favorable terms, or fail to increase adoption of our platform, including tiered and premium features or project-based services, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. The markets for our offerings are evolving, and our future success depends on the growth of these markets and our ability to adapt, keep pace, and respond effectively to evolving markets. The markets for our offerings are in a relatively early stage of development within the industries in which we operate, and demand for our offerings may not grow, or may even contract, either generally or in particular industries and markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods. As such, any predictions or forecasts about our future growth, revenue, and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in more predictable markets. Any expansion in our markets depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our offerings and the offerings of our competitors. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell access to our platform, develop and successfully market new services, and could exert downward pressure on prices. The markets for our offerings are also characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. This constant evolution may reduce the effectiveness of or demand for our services or render them noncompetitive or obsolete. Our continued success and growth depend upon our ability to anticipate these challenges and to innovate by enhancing our existing services and developing and successfully implementing new services to keep pace with the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We have in the past experienced delays in improving our offerings due to budgetary constraints and evolving customer demands which could continue in the future. New service introductions that are responsive to new technologies and changing industry and regulatory standards can be complex and expensive as they require significant planning, design, development, and testing. We may find it difficult or costly to update our services and to develop new services quickly enough to work effectively with new or changed technologies, to keep pace with evolving industry standards or to meet our customers needs. In addition, our industries may be slow to accept new technologies that we develop because of, among other things, existing regulations or standards written specifically for older technologies and a general unfamiliarity with new technologies. As a result, any new services that we may develop may not be successful for a period of time, if at all. If we are unable to successfully enhance or update existing services or develop, identify, and market new services to meet these challenges, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on third parties for our supply of certain of our data, equipment, satellite components, software, and operational services to manage and operate our business, and any failure or interruption with these third parties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We purchase equipment and satellite components from third-party suppliers and we depend on those suppliers to deliver and support our operations at the contracted specifications in order for us to continue to meet our service and contractual commitments to our customers. We may experience difficulty if these suppliers, particularly our top suppliers, do not meet their obligations to deliver and support the equipment and satellite components. We may also have trouble or failure when implementing, operating and maintaining this equipment and satellite components, or when providing services using this equipment. This difficulty or failure may lead to service interruptions or degradations in the services offered to our customers, which could cause our revenues to decline materially and could adversely affect our ability to market our services and generate future revenues and profit. Further, our suppliers may become capacity-constrained or could face financial difficulties as a result of a surge in demand, a natural disaster, or other event, including the impacts of inflationary pressures, currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, continuing uncertainty surrounding the effects of COVID-19, and rising interest rates. As a result, we may experience operational delays and may have to evaluate replacement suppliers for our satellite components, equipment, and operational services. If we fail to effectively address these issues, we could suffer delays, which could reduce our ability to launch new satellites and manage and operate our business, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also rely on a number of third-party data, software, and services to manage and operate our business. The data, software, and services provided by these third parties are critical to our ability to increase our sales to customers, operate and maintain our platform, and accurately maintain books and records. Any disruption in these services could reduce the quality or volume of data we are able to provide to our customers, impair our ability to execute on our operating plan, and disrupt our business. Further, if these services cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may be required to use additional or alternative services, or to develop additional capabilities within our business, any of which may not be available or could require significant resources and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 26 We also rely on third-party cloud service providers to process the data we provide to service our customers. These third-party services are critical to our ability to provide reliable service to our customers. Any disruption in these services would negatively impact our data service uptime and our ability to service customers reliably and consistently, which could reduce sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if any of our direct or indirect relationships with our third-party suppliers of data, equipment, satellite components, or operational services are terminated or modified. If our arrangements with our third parties are terminated, our search for additional or alternate third-party suppliers could result in significant launch delays, added expense, reduced quality of our data, and an inability to maintain or expand our customer base. Any of these events could require us to take unforeseen actions or devote additional resources to provide our services and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We manufacture our satellites in-house at a single manufacturing facility in the United Kingdom. Any impairment to our manufacturing facility could cause us to incur additional costs and delays in the production and launch of our satellites which would materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently manufacture our satellites in-house at a single manufacturing facility in the United Kingdom. The availability of our services depends on the continuing operation of our satellite manufacturing infrastructure and operations. Any impairment such as downtime, damage to, or failure of our manufacturing facility could result in interruptions in our production of satellites, which could materially affect our business. Our manufacturing facility may become capacity-constrained or could face financial difficulties as a result of a surge in demand for additional satellites, a natural disaster, or other event, including the impacts of a pandemic. Our manufacturing site is vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, or aging infrastructure. An infrastructure failure could result in the destruction of satellites under construction or inventory, manufacturing delays, or additional costs incurred, and we do not maintain back-up manufacturing facilities or operations. We may not be able to replace or supplement the satellite manufacturing process with third-party manufacturers, and even if we are able to do so, there could be a substantial period of time in which new satellites would not be manufactured. Further, any new relationship may involve higher costs and delays in development and delivery. We may also encounter technical challenges in successfully replicating the manufacturing processes in another facility or with a third-party. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in lengthy interruptions in our production and launch of our satellites which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third parties to launch our satellites into space, and any launch delay, malfunction, or failure could have a material adverse impact to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on third-party launch service providers. Currently, the number of companies who offer launch services is limited, and if this sector fails to grow or experiences consolidation among current providers, we may not be able to secure space on a launch vehicle or may incur higher prices for such space. This could cause delays in our ability to meet our customers needs or an increase in the price for our offerings, adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The technology related to launch capabilities is evolving rapidly as existing launch providers iterate on their existing capabilities and new providers enter the market. Our launch partners may encounter launch, deployment, or in-orbit delays or failures, leading to the damage or complete loss of our satellites, including customer assets. In the event that a launch is delayed, our timing for the recognition of revenue tied to customer acceptance of project-based deliverables may similarly be delayed. Launch delays are common in our industry, and they could negatively impact our financial statements or earnings for a given time period. Our international operations and continued international expansion subject us to additional costs and risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business and our business objectives are inherently worldwide. As such, our growth strategy depends, in part, on our continued international expansion. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to address international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful. In addition, efforts to expand our platform in certain foreign countries may be complicated, constrained, or even prohibited due to legal requirements we must comply with in the United States or other jurisdictions that may conflict with legal requirements in the new countrys markets to which we seek access. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and managing collections in countries where our recourse may be more limited, as well as longer collection periods; higher costs of doing business internationally, including costs incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; differing labor regulations, especially in the EU, where labor laws are often more favorable to employees; greater risks of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, trade disputes, and tax laws and treaties, particularly due to the United Kingdoms exit from the EU; challenges inherent to efficiently recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture and employee programs across all of our offices; fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business; 27 management communication and integration problems resulting from language and cultural differences and geographic dispersion; difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established and entrenched competitors; difficulties in developing services that are tailored to the needs of local customers; lack of local acceptance, recognition, or knowledge of our brand and services; unavailability of or difficulties in establishing relationships with local customers; significant investments, including the development, deployment, and maintenance of dedicated facilities in certain countries with laws that require such facilities to be installed and operated within their jurisdiction to connect the traffic coming to and from their territory; difficulties in obtaining required regulatory or other governmental approvals; costs associated with language localization of our platform; risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including any importation, certification, and localization of our platform that may be required in foreign countries; greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and tax laws, trade laws, export quotas, customs duties, treaties, and other trade restrictions; costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations, including, but not limited to data privacy, data protection, and data security laws and regulations; compliance with anti-bribery laws, including, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.S. Travel Act, and the UK Bribery Act 2010 (the UK Bribery Act), violations of which could lead to significant fines, penalties, and collateral consequences for us; risks relating to the implementation of exchange controls, including restrictions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), and other similar trade protection regulations and measures; heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact our financial condition and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; exposure to regional or global public health issues, such as the outbreak of a pandemic, and to travel restrictions and other measures undertaken by governments in response to such issues; general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets, including political and economic instability in some countries, such as the conflict in Ukraine and its impacts on the region and the regional global economy; foreign exchange controls or tax regulations that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the United States or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and provisions in government contracts prohibiting foreign nationals from working on certain programs. These and other factors could harm our ability to generate revenue outside of the United States and/or could result in increased expenses and liabilities, and consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions, dispositions, or strategic transactions, and if we fail to successfully integrate acquired companies into our business or if such acquisitions fail to deliver the expected return on investment, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire or invest in, businesses, offerings, technologies, or talent that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur significant expenses related to identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. There are inherent risks in integrating and managing acquisitions. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to assimilate or integrate the acquired personnel, operations, solutions, and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits or synergies from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including, without limitation: unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, including claims related to the acquired company, our offerings, or technology; incurrence of acquisition-related expenses, which would be recognized as a current period expense; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; 28 challenges with incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and maintaining quality and security standards consistent with our brand; inability to identify security vulnerabilities in acquired technology prior to integration with our technology and platform; inability to achieve anticipated synergies or unanticipated difficulty with integration into our corporate culture; delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; the need to integrate or implement additional controls, procedures, and policies; challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences; harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; potential loss of key employees; use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business and diversion of management and employee resources; inability to recognize acquired contract liabilities in accordance with our revenue recognition policies; and use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. Acquisitions also increase the risk of unforeseen legal liability, including for potential violations of applicable law or industry rules and regulations, arising from prior or ongoing acts or omissions by the acquired businesses that are not discovered by due diligence during the acquisition process. We may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our common stock. The sale of equity or issuance of equity-linked debt to finance any future acquisitions could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Privacy, Cybersecurity, and Technical Infrastructure Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technology, know-how, and our brand. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions in an effort to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights may be inadequate, and if we fail to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or trade secrets adequately, our competitors might gain access to our proprietary technology and develop and commercialize similar services or technologies, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be adversely affected. Although we have been issued patents in the United States and Canada and have additional patent applications pending, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in issued patents. Even if we continue to seek patent protection in the future, we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our technology. In addition, any patents issued from pending or future patent applications or that are licensed to us in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Any of our patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated or held unenforceable through administrative process or litigation in the United States, Canada, or in other foreign jurisdictions. There can be no guarantee that others will not infringe on our trademarks or patents, independently develop offerings that are similar to our intellectual property or trade secrets, duplicate any of our offerings, or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. Further, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights may be uncertain. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating, or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. We rely, in part, on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with third parties, including the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, these agreements may not be effective in controlling access to, distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering, or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing offerings that are substantially equivalent or superior to our offerings. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party violated confidentiality obligations or illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets and know-how. We may be required to spend significant resources in order to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, and some violations may be difficult or impossible to detect. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, and such litigation could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, and if such defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits are successful, we could lose valuable 29 intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could impair the functionality of our services and technology, delay introductions of enhancements to our services and technology, result in us substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our service offerings, or harm our reputation and brand. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new features, which may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and could adversely affect our ability to compete. Claims by others that we infringed their proprietary technology or other intellectual property rights would harm our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and commercialize our services without infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may not be aware if our services are infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights, and such third parties may bring claims alleging such infringement, misappropriation, or violation. Companies in technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, certain companies and rights holders seek to enforce and monetize patents or other intellectual property rights they own, have purchased, or otherwise obtained. Many potential litigants, including some of our potential competitors and patent-holding companies, have the ability to dedicate substantial resources to assert their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, against us or for which we are required to provide indemnification could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business, and could require us to cease or modify our use of such intellectual property. Further, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, we risk compromising our confidential information during this type of litigation. We may be required to make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement fees, damages, royalties, or other fees in connection with a claimant securing a judgment against it, we may be subject to an injunction or other restrictions that cause us to cease commercializing certain aspects of our business and technology, we may be required to redesign any allegedly infringing portion of our services and technology, or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from commercializing certain aspects of our services or technology, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it would have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or the market price of our common stock. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to seek out a license to continue operations found to be in violation of such rights, which may not be available on favorable or commercially reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. Some such licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If a third-party does not offer us a license to our intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may be required to develop alternative, non-infringing technology, which could require significant time (during which we would be unable to continue to offer our affected features), effort, and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. When engaging in preliminary commercial discussions, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with potential partners. These agreements permit the parties to exchange confidential information conditioned on compliance with the terms contained therein. Any claim that we have not adhered to the terms of a non-disclosure agreement, even claims without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business, and could require us to cease or modify our services, in addition to potentially paying substantial payments for legal fees, settlement fees, damages, royalties, or other fees. Our services and technology contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to deliver our platform or subject us to litigation or other actions. Our technology includes software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, and we expect to continue to incorporate such open source software in our platform in the future. We also contribute to the open source developer community. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification, or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. We include open source software in some of our technology to improve functionality and reduce engineering time and cost and make the source code of some of our proprietary platform features available as open source to facilitate collaboration, but this may also enable others to compete more effectively. In addition, the public availability of such open source software may make it easier for others to compromise our services and technology. Some open source licenses contain requirements that could require us to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create pursuant to the terms of such open source licenses. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of our competitive advantages. Alternatively, to avoid the public release of the affected portions of our source code, we could be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all our software. Certain of our technology incorporates software that is licensed under an open source license which would require release of proprietary code if such technology was released or distributed to third parties. Additionally, some open source projects have known vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities and are provided on an as-is basis, which, if not properly addressed, could negatively affect the performance of our technology. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our platform. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their platform, and the 30 licensors of such open source software provide no warranties or indemnities with respect to such claims. As a result, we and our customers could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Moreover, we cannot assure that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our platform will be effective. If we are held to have breached or failed to fully comply with all the terms and conditions of an open source software license, or if an author or other third-party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations, could be subject to significant direct or indirect damages, enjoined from the sale of subscriptions to our platform or other liability, or be required to seek costly licenses from third parties to continue providing our platform on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our platform, to discontinue or delay the provision of our platform if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We incorporate technology and terrestrial data sets from third parties into our platform, and our inability to maintain rights and access to such technology and data sets would harm our business and results of operations. We rely on technology and data from a number of different sources, including terrestrial data sets from third parties that we integrate with our platform or incorporate into our solutions and services. We cannot be certain that our licensors are not infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties or that these third parties have sufficient rights to the licensed intellectual property in all jurisdictions in which we may sell our subscription services and project-based services. In addition, many technology licenses are non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Some of our agreements with these third parties may be terminated for convenience by them, or otherwise provide for a limited term. If we are unable to continue to license any of this technology for any reason, our ability to develop and sell access to our platform containing such technology could be harmed. Similarly, if we are unable to license necessary technology from third parties now, or in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be forced to develop alternative technology, which we may be unable to do in a commercially feasible manner, or at all, and we may be required to use alternative technology of lower quality or performance standards, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we incorporate terrestrial data sets from third parties into our solutions and subscription services. We rely on such third parties to provide accurate supplementary data sets that we can utilize to deliver comprehensive data and analytics to our customers. If we are unable to obtain the necessary data sets from third parties on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or if we experience errors or delays in receiving these data sets, our customers may have a negative experience with our platform, our brand and reputation may be adversely affected and our customers may be less inclined to continue utilizing our platform or to recommend it to other potential customers. Similarly, if we are unable to purchase terrestrial data sets from third parties now, or in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be forced to produce terrestrial data sets ourselves, which we may be unable to do in a commercially feasible manner, or at all, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any actual or perceived security or privacy breach or incident could interrupt our operations, harm our reputation and brand, result in financial exposure, and lead to loss of user confidence in us or decreased use of our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The use of our platform involves the collection, storage, processing, and transmission of customers data. In addition, we collect, process, store, and transmit our own data as part of our business operations. Our data or our customers data may include personal data or confidential or proprietary information. Increasingly, threats from computer malware, ransomware, viruses, social engineering (including phishing attacks), denial of service or other attacks, employee theft or misuse, and general hacking have become more prevalent in our industry. Any security breaches or other incidents owing to these or other causes could result in loss of or unauthorized access to, damage to, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of, disclosure of, modification of, or destruction or other unauthorized processing of, our data or our customers data, or disrupt our ability to operate our platform for a lengthy period of time. Any actual or perceived security breach or incident could interrupt our operations, harm our reputation and brand, result in remediation and cybersecurity protection costs, result in lost revenue, lead to litigation and legal risks, increase our insurance premiums, result in other financial exposure, lead to loss of user confidence in us or decreased use of our platform, and otherwise damage our competitiveness, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The conflict in Ukraine and associated activities in Ukraine and Russia may increase the risk of cyberattacks on various types of infrastructure and operations. We believe those risks may be particularly heightened for us and other providers of satellite infrastructure and space operations, and that we face heightened risks of cyberattacks and other attacks on our infrastructure, systems, and operations in connection with the conflict in Ukraine and associated activities in Ukraine and Russia. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could be insufficient or breached or otherwise fail as a result of third-party action, employee errors, technological limitations, defects, vulnerabilities in our offerings or those of our third-party service providers, malfeasance, or otherwise. Additionally, with a hybrid workforce we may be exposed to increased risks of security breaches or other incidents and have seen an increase in phishing attempts and spam emails. We may need to enhance the security of our platform, our systems, our data, and the other data we maintain or that we or our third-party service providers maintain or otherwise process, and our internal IT infrastructure, which may require additional resources and may not be successful. Furthermore, because we do not control our third-party service providers and our ability to monitor their data security is limited, we cannot ensure the security measures they take will be sufficient to protect our platform or IT infrastructure or our and our customers data. There can be no assurance that any security measures that we or our third-party service providers have implemented will be effective against current or future security threats. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could fail and result in loss of or unauthorized access to, damage to, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of, disclosure of, modification of, or destruction of, or otherwise unauthorized processing of, such data. Further, because there are many different security breach and other cyberattack techniques and such 31 techniques continue to become more sophisticated, frequent and adaptive and are generally not detected until after an incident has occurred, we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures, anticipate attempted security breaches or other incidents, or react in a timely manner. Any security breach or other incident that we or our third-party service providers experience, or the perception that one has occurred, could result in a loss of customer confidence in the security of our platform, harm our reputation and brand, reduce the demand for our platform, disrupt normal business operations, require us to spend material resources to investigate or correct the breach or incident and to prevent future security breaches and incidents, expose us to legal liabilities, including litigation, regulatory enforcement actions, proceedings, and orders, disputes, investigations, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, other claims and liabilities, and significant costs for remediation of and otherwise responding to such breaches or other incidents, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful. We also may face difficulty or delay in identifying, remediating, and otherwise responding to security breaches and incidents. We cannot ensure that any limitation of liability provisions in our customer and user agreements, contracts with third-party vendors and service providers, and other contracts for a security lapse or breach or other security incident would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. These risks may increase as we continue to grow and collect, process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of data. Many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents or unauthorized transfers involving certain types of personal data. Accordingly, security incidents experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to negative publicity. Further, if a security breach or incident occurs with respect to another service provider, our customers and potential customers may lose trust in the security of software delivered through the cloud generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, our insurance coverage may not be adequate for liabilities incurred or cover any indemnification claims against us relating to any security incident or breach or an insurer may deny coverage of claims. In the future, we may not be able to secure insurance for such matters on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The rapidly evolving framework of privacy, data protection, data transfers, or other laws or regulations worldwide may increase our costs of compliance, subject us to claims and penalties, and limit the use and adoption of our services, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws, directives, and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, relating to the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal information and other data. The regulatory framework for privacy, data protection, and data transfers worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. These laws could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our platform and other aspects of our operations. Complying with these laws, regulations, amendments to or re-interpretations of laws and regulations, and contractual or other actual or alleged obligations relating to privacy, data protection, data transfers, data localization, or information security may require us to make changes to our services to enable us, our data suppliers or our customers to meet new legal requirements, incur substantial operational costs, modify our data practices and policies, engage in additional contractual negotiations, and restrict our business operations. The interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations described above are uncertain and subject to change, and may require substantial costs to monitor and implement compliance with current or additional requirements. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, regulations, or other obligations may lead to significant fines, penalties, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, lawsuits, significant costs for remediation, damage to our reputation, or other liabilities. In addition to government activity, privacy advocates and other industry groups have established or may establish self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on our ability to provide our services globally, and which we may comply with or face asserted or actual obligations to comply with. Our customers also may require or expect us to meet certain voluntary certification and other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our services to certain customers and could harm our business. Furthermore, the uncertain and shifting regulatory environment may cause concerns regarding data privacy and may cause our customers or our customers customers to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our services effectively. Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or that our maintenance or processing of such information does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our services and limit adoption of our platform. Additionally, some statutory requirements, both in the United States and abroad, include obligations for companies to notify individuals of security breaches and incidents involving particular personal information, which could result from breaches or incidents experienced by us or our service providers. Any actual or perceived security breach or incident that we or our service providers suffer could harm our reputation and brand, expose us to potential claims, liability, and proceedings, or require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to any such actual or perceived breach or incident. 32 These laws, regulations, standards, or other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, data transfers, data localization, or information security could require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, restrict our ability to store, transfer, and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations, to deploy our solutions, to reach current and prospective customers, or to derive insights from data globally. If we are obligated to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our platform, we may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner, or at all, and our ability to develop new platform features could be limited. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, these laws, regulations, standards, and obligations, or any inability to adequately address privacy, data protection, or information security-related concerns, even if unfounded, may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, make it more difficult to meet expectations from or commitments to customers, impact our reputation, or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on AWS to deliver our platform to our customers, and any disruption of, or interference with, our use of AWS could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. AWS is a third-party provider of cloud infrastructure services. We outsource substantially all of the infrastructure relating to our platform to AWS. Our customers need to be able to access our platform at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance. Our platform depends, in significant part, on the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted in AWS. Any incident affecting AWS infrastructure that may be caused by tsunamis, tornados, floods, hurricanes, other extreme or unusual weather events, earthquakes, fires, acts of war or terrorism, or other catastrophic events, power loss, telecommunications failures, cyberattacks, and other similar events beyond our control, could adversely affect our cloud-native platform. Additionally, AWS may experience threats or attacks from computer malware, ransomware, viruses, social engineering (including phishing attacks), denial of service or other attacks. In addition, employee theft or misuse and general hacking have become more prevalent in our industry. Any of these security incidents could result in unauthorized access to, damage to, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of, disclosure of, modification of, destruction of, or loss of our data or our customers data or disrupt our ability to provide our platform or service. A prolonged AWS service disruption affecting our platform would adversely impact our ability to serve our customers and could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, result in substantial costs for remediation, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative hosting sources or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the AWS services we use. Our end-user license agreement with AWS may be terminated by AWS or us with or without cause subject to at least 30 days advance notice. Termination upon a material breach is subject to providing the breaching party prior notice and a 30-day cure period. AWS may terminate the agreement immediately upon notice if (i) our subscription has been suspended, (ii) AWS can no longer provide the services due to changes in software or other technology, or (iii) required by law or other government entities. In the event that our AWS service agreement is terminated, there is elimination of AWS services or features that we utilize, or there is damage to such facilities, we would experience interruptions in access to our platform as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging for or creating new facilities or re-architecting our platform for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We have been involved, and may in the future become involved, in claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we have been involved, and may in the future become involved, in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including intellectual property, commercial, employment, class action, whistleblower, and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, be harmful to our reputation, require significant management attention, and divert significant resources. In addition, the expense of litigation and the timing of this expense from period to period are difficult to estimate and subject to change. The risk of litigation may be heightened among public companies, like us, that have recently undergone a merger with a special purpose acquisition company, as well as for companies, like us, that have recently restated their financial statements. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex and fact-intensive process that requires significant subjective judgment and speculation. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines, and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These proceedings could also result in harm to our reputation and brand, sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions, or other orders requiring a change in our business practices. Because of the potential risks, expenses, and uncertainties of litigation, we may, from time to time, settle disputes, even where we have meritorious claims or defenses, by agreeing to settlement agreements. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations, many of which are evolving, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing laws and regulations related to the deployment and operation of satellites, ground stations, privacy and data protection, intellectual property, investment screening, labor and employment, worker classification, product safety, anti-bribery laws, import and export controls, controlled goods laws, federal securities laws, and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. These laws and regulations impose added costs on our business. We monitor these developments and devote a significant amount of managements time and external resources towards compliance with these laws, regulations, and guidelines, and such compliance places a significant burden on managements time and other resources, and it may limit our ability to expand into certain jurisdictions. 33 Moreover, changes in law, the imposition of new or additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts our business could require us to change the way we operate. In addition, changes in laws and regulations applicable to us, our third-party partners or our suppliers, or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could result in changes in the legal requirements affecting us (including with retroactive effect) or our partners and suppliers. Any changes in the laws and regulations to which we or our partners and suppliers are subject could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is impossible to predict whether there will be any future changes in the regulatory regimes to which we will be subject or the effect of any such change. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations or failure to satisfy any criteria or other requirements under such laws or regulations, such as with respect to obtaining and maintaining licenses, certificates, authorizations, and permits critical for the operation of our business, may result in civil penalties or private lawsuits, or result in a delay or the denial, suspension, or revocation of licenses, certificates, authorizations, or permits, which would prevent us from operating our business. For example, our business requires licenses and permits from the FCC, and review by other agencies of the U.S. government. In addition, we are required to maintain similar licenses and permits in Luxembourg, Singapore and Canada which impose regulatory and operational requirements. License approval can include an interagency review of safety, operational, radio frequency interference, national security, and foreign policy, and international obligations implications, as well as a review of foreign ownership. Further, because regulations in each country differ, we may not be aware if some of our partners or persons with whom we or our partners do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. We must also comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of contracts with the public sector, including U.S. federal governmental organizations, which affects how we do business with governmental agencies. Selling our services to the U.S. government also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The rules and regulations of U.S. and foreign authorities, and their interpretation and application, may change, and such authorities may adopt regulations that limit or restrict our operations as presently conducted or currently contemplated. Such authorities may also make changes in the licenses of our competitors that affect our spectrum. These changes in rules or regulatory policy may significantly affect our business. Application of these laws to our business may negatively impact our performance in various ways, limiting the collaborations we may pursue, further regulating the export and re-export of our services and technology from the United States and abroad, and increasing our costs and the time necessary to obtain required authorization. The adoption of a multi-layered regulatory approach to any one of the laws or regulations to which we are or may become subject, particularly where the layers are in conflict, could require alteration of our manufacturing processes or operational parameters which may adversely impact our business. Our failure to provide services in accordance with the terms of our licenses or our failure to operate our satellites or ground stations as required by our licenses and applicable laws and government regulations could result in the imposition of government sanctions on us, including the suspension or cancellation of our licenses. Our failure or delay in obtaining the approvals required to operate in other countries would limit or delay our ability to expand our operations into those countries. Our failure to obtain industry-standard or government-required certifications for our services could compromise our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business in other countries. Any imposition of sanctions, loss of license, or failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to use our assigned radio frequency spectrum and to distribute our services in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could cause us to lose sales, hurt our reputation and impair our ability to pursue our business plan. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to: investigations, enforcement actions, orders, and sanctions; mandatory changes to our global satellite system; disgorgement of profits, fines, and damages; civil and criminal penalties or injunctions; claims for damages by our customers; termination of contracts; loss of intellectual property rights; and temporary or permanent debarment from sales to government organizations. The results of any such claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations, or other legal or regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, be harmful to our reputation, require significant management attention, and divert significant resources. Determining reserves for claims against us is a complex and fact-intensive process that requires significant subjective judgment and speculation, and significant adjustments to reserves may have to be made in subsequent periods. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines, and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These proceedings could also result in harm to our reputation and brand, sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions, or other orders requiring a change in our business practices. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of our business and commercial partners and current and former directors and officers. 34 Further, a temporary or permanent debarment by the U.S. federal government could have a negative impact on our ability to obtain contracts with agencies of U.S. states and localities as well as with non-U.S. public sector customers, some of which are required to report any suspension or debarment when submitting a proposal. Our ability to obtain or maintain licensing authorization for our platform is subject to government rules and processes which can cause delays or failures in obtaining authorizations requested. Further, regulators may adopt new rules and regulations which could impose new requirements impacting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not maintain regulatory authorizations for our existing satellites, associated ground facilities and terminals, and services we provide, or obtain authorizations for our future satellites, associated ground facilities and terminals, and services we provide, we may not be able to operate our existing satellites or expand our operations. If we fail to obtain or maintain particular authorizations for any of the required licenses for our ground stations, satellite launches, satellite constellations, or for our ability to uplink or downlink satellite data on acceptable terms, such failure could delay or prevent us from offering some or all of our services, including subscription services and project-based services, which could adversely affect our results of business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain all of the required regulatory authorizations for the construction, launch, and operation of any of our future satellites or export or import of data. Even if we can obtain the necessary authorizations and licenses, they may impose significant operational restrictions, or not protect us from interference that could affect the use of our satellites. Our ability to secure all requisite governmental approvals is not assured, and the process of obtaining governmental authorizations and licenses can be time consuming, time sensitive, and require compliance with a wide array of administrative and procedural rules. Any failure to obtain required approvals could compromise our ability to generate revenue or conduct our business in one or more countries. We hold FCC and foreign governmental licensing authority licenses, permits, and approvals for our satellite constellations and earth stations. As we build out our satellite constellation, we will require new licenses, permits, or approvals from the FCC and/or foreign governmental licensing authorities or modifications to existing licenses, permits, or approvals. Changes to our satellite constellation and earth stations may also require prior approval from the FCC or other governmental authorities. These modifications or changes may take time: for example, the FCC typically processes satellite applications for new orbital locations or frequencies on a first come, first served basis. From time to time, we may have pending applications for permanent or temporary changes in frequencies and technical design. From time to time, we have filed or will need to file applications to replace or add satellites to our satellite constellation. These licenses, permits, and approvals are also subject to modification by the FCC and foreign government licensing authorities. In addition, our licenses, permits, and approvals require coordination with various entities, including other federal government agencies. There can be no assurance that the FCC or foreign governmental licensing authorities will renew the licenses we hold, modify the licenses we currently hold, or grant new licenses, or that coordination conditions can continue to be met. If the FCC or a foreign governmental licensing authority revokes, modifies or fails to renew the licenses we hold, or fails to grant a new license or modification, or if we fail to satisfy any of the conditions of our licenses, we may not be able to continue to provide our services. In some cases, we rely upon partners or persons with whom we do business to obtain and maintain required non-U.S. regulatory approvals. However, if we or our partners do not maintain the authorizations necessary to operate our platform, we will not be able to operate the satellites covered by those authorizations, unless we obtain authorization from another licensing jurisdiction. In addition, some of our authorizations provide waivers of regulations. If we do not maintain these waivers, we will be subject to operational restrictions or interference that will affect our use of existing satellites. Loss of a satellite authorization could cause us to lose the revenue from services provided by that satellite at a particular orbital location or using a particular frequency band, to the extent these services cannot be provided by satellites at other orbital locations or with a different frequency band. Our launches and operation of our platform may require additional regulatory authorizations from the FCC or a non-U.S. licensing jurisdiction. Obtaining launch windows for planned satellites and ground stations, preparing for launch, and working with the requisite equipment in foreign jurisdictions may require coordination with U.S. and foreign regulators. If any of our current operations are deemed not to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to various sanctions, including fines, loss of authorizations, or denial of applications for new authorizations or renewal of existing authorizations. It is not uncommon for licenses for new satellites or additional operational parameters to be granted just prior to launch, which may result in unanticipated expenses or delays. If we do not obtain required authorizations in the future, we will not be able to operate our planned satellites. If we obtain a required authorization but we do not receive customer acceptance of project-based deliverables regarding the construction, launch, and operation of a satellite by deadlines that may be established in the authorization, we may lose our authorization to operate a satellite using certain frequencies in an orbital location. Any authorizations we may obtain may also impose operational restrictions or permit interference that could affect our use of planned satellites. Countries or their regulatory authorities, or the International Telecommunication Union ("ITU"), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations, may adopt new laws, policies, or regulations, or change their interpretation of existing laws, policies, or regulations, that could cause our existing authorizations and the frequency allocations that we rely on for use of our satellites to be changed or cancelled, require us to incur additional costs, impose or change existing price ceilings, or otherwise adversely affect our operations or revenues. As a result, any currently held regulatory authorizations and licenses are subject to rescission and renewal and may not remain sufficient or additional authorizations may be necessary that we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or on terms that are not unduly burdensome. There is no guarantee that such licenses will be renewed. Further, because the regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware that we are not in compliance with, and as a result could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government. 35 We are dependent on the availability and unimpaired use of allocated bands within the radio frequency spectrum and failure to secure spectrum use rights to support our operations and future technological development could impede our growth. Further, our platform may be subject to harmful interference from new or modified spectrum uses. Our platform is dependent on the use of satellite signals and on terrestrial communication bands. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the ITU. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every three to four years by the World Radiocommunication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority over how each band is used in the country. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Any ITU or local reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation and sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our platform and have significant negative impacts on our customers, both of which could reduce demand for our platform. We are licensed to uplink and downlink our data over certain bands. Other countries have considered proposals for use of frequencies used by our platform as well as adjacent bands that could cause harmful interference to our platform. Our platform also uses other radio frequency bands, such as the GPS and Galileo frequencies, together with the GNSS signal, to provide enhanced GNSS capabilities, such as near real-time kinematics precision. The continuing availability of these non-GNSS radio frequencies is essential to provide enhanced GNSS products to our commercial and government markets. In addition, transmissions and emissions from other services and equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or in-band may impair the utility and reliability of our platform. Any regulatory changes in spectrum allocation or in allowable operating conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to domestic and international governmental export and import controls that would impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws or if we do not secure or maintain the required export authorizations. In many cases, our services are or may in the future be subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations including the EAR and ITAR, and subject to trade and economic sanctions maintained by OFAC. We are also subject to export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations in other jurisdictions in which we operate. As such, an export license may be required to export or re-export our technology and services to certain countries or end-users, or for certain end-uses. If we were to fail to comply with such U.S. export controls laws and regulations, U.S. economic sanctions, or other similar laws or regulations in other jurisdictions, we could be subject to both civil and criminal penalties, including substantial fines, possible incarceration for employees and managers for willful violations, and the possible loss of our export or import privileges. Compliance with the EAR, ITAR, and other applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our services, including new releases and/or the performance of services, may create delays in the introduction of our services in non-U.S. markets, prevent our customers with non-U.S. operations from deploying these services throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of the services to some countries altogether. Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale or offering may not be possible, may be time-consuming, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. We have failed, and could in the future fail, to secure or maintain at all times all required export authorizations, which could have negative consequences on our business, including reputational harm, government investigations and civil and criminal penalties. Additionally, monitoring and ensuring compliance with these complex export control laws, regulations and sanctions is particularly challenging because our offerings are widely distributed throughout the world. A failure by us or our partners to comply with all relevant export laws and regulations could have negative consequences for us, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. Changes in domestic or international export or import laws or regulations, economic sanctions, or related legislation, shifts in the enforcement or scope of existing export, import, or sanctions laws or regulations, or changes in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such export, import, or sanctions laws or regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell access to our platform to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations. A decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export to or sell access to our platform in international markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines, harm our reputation, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. We are subject to the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the U.S. Travel Act, and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we have offices or do business, both domestic and abroad. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives, and agents from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments to government officials, political candidates, political parties, or commercial partners for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper business advantage. We have interactions with foreign officials, including in furtherance of sales to governmental entities in the United States and in non-U.S. countries. We sometimes leverage third parties to conduct our business abroad, and our third-party business partners, representatives, and agents may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of our employees or these third parties, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. The FCPA and other applicable laws and regulations also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. We cannot assure you that all of our employees, business partners, third-party intermediaries, representatives, 36 and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. A violation of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, or suspension or debarment from government contracts, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business, stock price, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In addition, responding to an investigation or action will likely result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Domestic and international tax laws and regulations, and changes to such tax laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Beginning in 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenses with amortization periods over five and 15 years, which reduces taxable loss, and creates a new deferred tax asset for capitalized research and development costs, and corresponding adjustments to tax on foreign source income through global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI"). Regulatory or legislative developments may arise from the proposed U.S. tax reform under the Biden Administration, which has proposed several changes to the corporate income tax regime, which, if adopted, could result in increased taxation of our business operations. There is uncertainty regarding what changes, if any, will be enacted and the effect on our business and financial results. As we expand the scale of our international business activities, U.S. or foreign taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We generally conduct our international operations through subsidiaries and report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the value of assets sold or acquired or income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. There is also a high level of uncertainty in todays tax environment stemming from both global initiatives put forth by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and unilateral measures being implemented by various countries due to a lack of consensus on these global initiatives. Unilateral measures such as digital services taxes and corresponding tariffs in response to such measures are creating additional uncertainty. If these proposals are passed, it is likely that we will have to pay higher income taxes in countries where such rules are applicable. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of December 31, 2022, we had $251.4 million of federal and $102.7 million of state net operating loss carryforwards (Net Operating Losses), available to reduce future taxable income. Of the approximately $251.4 million in U.S. federal Net Operating Losses, approximately $168.9 million will be carried forward indefinitely for U.S. federal tax purposes and approximately $82.5 million will begin to expire in 2032. Our $102.7 million of state Net Operating Losses will expire in various tax years beginning in 2032. It is possible that we will not generate taxable income in time to use Net Operating Losses before their expiration, or at all. In addition, our federal and state Net Operating Losses and certain tax credits may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 and Section 383, respectively, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and similar provisions under state law. In general, under those sections of the Code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research and development tax credits, to offset its post-change income or tax liability may be limited. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5-percent stockholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an ownership change. Similar provisions of state tax law may also apply to limit our use of our accumulated state tax attributes. As a result, even if we earn net taxable income in the future, our ability to use our or Legacy Spires Net Operating Losses and other tax attributes to offset such taxable income or tax liability may be subject to limitations, which could potentially adversely affect our cash flows and result in increased future income tax liability. The Tax Act, as amended by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act), among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates and the rules governing Net Operating Losses. For Net Operating Losses arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the Tax Act, as modified by the CARES Act, limits a taxpayers ability to utilize Net Operating Losses to 80% of taxable income (as calculated before taking the Net Operating Losses, and certain other tax attributes, into account) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020. Net Operating Losses arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 can be carried forward indefinitely. Net Operating Losses generated in tax years beginning before January 1, 2018 will not be subject to the taxable income limitation and will continue to have a two-year carryback and twenty-year carryforward period. However, in future years, if and when a net deferred tax asset is recognized related to our Net Operating Losses, the changes in the new limitation on the use of Net Operating Losses may significantly impact our valuation allowance assessments for Net Operating Losses generated after December 31, 2017. 37 There is also a risk that due to federal or state regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of Net Operating Losses, tax credits or other tax attributes, possibly with retroactive effect, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing Net Operating Losses, tax credits or other tax attributes could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added, or similar taxes, and any such assessments could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not collect sales and use, value added, and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use, value added, and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties, and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties, interest, or future requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Financial and Accounting Matters Our current insurance does not protect us against all satellite-related losses that we may experience. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including adverse conditions. Such occurrences could result in damage to equipment, personal injury or death, monetary losses, and possible legal liability. In addition, changes in the regulatory environment could impose additional insurance requirements on satellite operators. Despite any insurance coverage which we currently have or may secure in the future, the nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed policy limits, the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or we may elect not to insure against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event we could incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our current insurance does not protect us against all satellite-related losses that we may experience. Our insurance does not protect us against business interruption, loss of revenues, or delay of revenues. In addition, we only carry third-party liability insurance outside of the United States. Our existing third-party liability, launch, and in-orbit insurance policies may include, and any future policies that we may obtain may include, specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage or losses arising from acts of war, anti-satellite devices, electromagnetic or radio frequency interference, and other similar potential risks for which exclusions are customary in the industry at the time the policy is written. In addition, they typically exclude coverage for satellite health-related problems affecting our satellites that are known at the time the policy is written or renewed. Any claims under existing policies are subject to settlement with the insurers. The price, terms, and availability of satellite insurance has increased significantly in recent years. Launch and in-orbit policies on satellites may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may determine that it is not in our interest to purchase insurance in certain circumstances. To the extent we experience a launch or in-orbit failure that is not fully insured or not insured at all, such failure could harm our financial position. In addition, higher premiums on insurance policies increase costs, thereby reducing our available cash. In addition to higher premiums, insurance policies may provide for higher deductibles, shorter coverage periods, higher loss percentages required for constructive total loss claims and additional satellite health-related policy exclusions. If we experience significant uninsured losses, such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and as we continue to expand internationally, we will become more exposed to such fluctuations. A portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside of the United States and denominated in foreign currencies. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies in the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 increased the real cost of our platform for those customers paying in U.S. dollars outside of the United States, which could lead to the lengthening of our sales cycle or reduced demand for our platform. The fluctuations in currency exchange rates could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. As we continue our international expansion, increased international sales may result in foreign currency denominated sales, increasing our foreign currency risk. Moreover, this continued expansion will increase operating expenses incurred outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Material impairments in the carrying value of our goodwill would negatively affect our operating results. Goodwill represents a significant portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2022, we had $50.0 million in goodwill, which resulted from our acquisition activity and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We assess at least annually whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill assets may not be recoverable. If our market capitalization continues to decline, and if macroeconomic conditions worsen, our reporting unit may be at risk for future goodwill impairments. Any write-off of a material portion of our goodwill would negatively affect our results of operations. 38 Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. GAAP is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Changes in accounting principles applicable to us, or varying interpretations of current accounting principles, in particular, with respect to revenue recognition of our solutions, could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. Further, any difficulties in the implementation of changes in accounting principles, including the ability to modify our accounting systems, could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations and/or lead to a determination of ineffective controls, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors confidence in us. Our estimates and judgments relating to our critical accounting policies may be based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, which could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, but the estimates and assumptions involve significant subjectivity and judgment. Our estimates and judgments relating to our critical accounting policies may be based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting could impair our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the listing standards of the NYSE. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure