Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to NavSight Holdings, Inc. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Six4 Holdings, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of this Quarterly Report and the Risk Factors section of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-240100) filed with the SEC. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities through March 31, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had a net loss of $6,170,865, which consists of operating costs of $949,627, a $5,232,000 change in the fair value of warrant liability, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $10,762. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of common stock by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On September 14, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 23,000,000 Units, which includes the full exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option of 3,000,000 Units, at $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $230,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 6,600,000 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $6,600,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $230,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $13,056,945 in transaction costs, including $4,600,000 of underwriting fees, $8,050,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $406,945 of other costs. 17 For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $472,356. Net loss of $6,170,865 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $10,762, and a change in the fair value of warrant liability of $5,232,000, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $477,271 of cash from operating activities. As of March 31, 2021, we had cash and marketable securities held in the trust account of $230,018,086. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less deferred underwriting commissions and income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay franchise and income taxes. During the period ended March 31, 2021, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of March 31, 2021, the Company had $851,069 in its operating bank accounts and negative working capital of $203,909, which excludes franchise and income taxes payable, as such amounts can be paid from the interest earned in the Trust Account. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, the Company will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. The Company will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its Sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the initial stockholders or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to obtain additional financing. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. The Company cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern through one year and one day from the date of issuance of these financial statements. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 9, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $8,050,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will be waived by the underwriter in the event that the Company does not complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liability We account for the warrants issued in connection with our Initial Public Offering in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40-15-7D under which the warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is 18 subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The fair value of the warrants was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation approach. Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, the Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheet. Net Loss per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, net of applicable taxes, by the weighted average number of shares of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods. Net income per common share, basic and diluted for and Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing net income less income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock, by the weighted average number of shares of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the periods presented. For the Period From January 1, 2021 through March 31, 2021 Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption Numerator: Earnings allocable to Common stock subject to possible redemption Interest earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account $ 10,762 Less: interest available to be withdrawn for payment of taxes (10,762 ) Net income $ - Denominator: Weighted Average Class A Common stock subject to possible redemption Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 19,416,841 Basic and diluted net income per share $ 0.00 Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption Numerator: Net Loss minus Net Earnings Net loss $ (6,170,865 ) Net income allocable to Class A Common Stock subject to possible redemption - Non-Redeemable Net Loss $ (6,170,865 ) Denominator: Weighted Average Non-Redeemable Common Stock Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption 9,333,159 Basic and diluted net loss per share, Class A and B Common shares not subject to redemption $ (0.66 ) Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. 19 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitat ive Disclosures About Market Risk As of March 31, 2021, we were not subject to any market or interest rate risk. Following the consummation of our Initial Public Offering, the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering, including amounts in the Trust Account, have been invested in U.S. government treasury bills, notes or bonds with a maturity of 185 days or less or in certain money market funds that invest solely in U.S. treasuries. Due to the short-term nature of these investments, we believe there will be no associated material exposure to interest rate risk.