Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K). This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in the 2023 Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview Spire is a global provider of space-based data, analytics and space services, offering unique datasets and powerful insights about Earth so that organizations can make decisions with confidence in a rapidly changing world. Spire builds, owns, and operates a fully deployed satellite constellation. We believe it is one of the worlds largest listening constellations, observing the Earth in real time using radio frequency technology. The data acquired by our multipurpose satellites provide global weather intelligence, ship and plane movements, and spoofing and jamming detection to better predict how their patterns impact economies, global security, business operations and the environment. We also offer Space as a Service solutions that empower customers to leverage our established infrastructure to put their business in space. We provide customers these solutions through an application programming interface (API) infrastructure. Our platform applies our value-add insights and predictive analytics to this proprietary data to create commercially valuable datasets. We offer three data solutions to our customers, which vary in complexity and price and can be delivered in near real-time via our API that can be easily integrated into our customers business operations: Maritime: Precise space-based data used for highly accurate ship monitoring, ship safety and route optimization. Aviation: Precise space-based data used for highly accurate aircraft monitoring, aircraft safety and route optimization. Weather: Precise space-based data used for highly accurate weather forecasting. For each data solution, we have the capability to offer customers a variety of features and additional value. The four forms of data we monetize are: Clean data: Clean and structured data directly from our proprietary nanosatellites; Smart data: Clean data fused with third-party datasets and proprietary analysis to enhance value and provide insights; Predictive solutions: Big data, AI, and ML algorithms applied to fused data sets to create predictive analytics and insights; and Solutions: Data-driven actionable recommendations to solve specific business problems, utilizing the full spectrum of our data analytics suite. These value-add data features allow customers to solve various use cases and provide a path to expand throughout the customers relationship. As our fourth solution, we are also pioneering an innovative business model through our Space Services solution. We leverage our fully deployed infrastructure and large-scale operations to enable our customers to obtain customized data through our API. Our customers can begin receiving data in less than a year after engaging with us and receive data by entering into a subscription agreement. Our Space Services offering provides our customers with fast, scalable and reliable access to space. 28 Our solutions are offered to customers across numerous industries and we not only have the opportunity to upsell within each one, but we also have the opportunity to cross-sell among all our solutions. We provide our solutions to global customers either through a subscription or based on a specific project. We currently sell directly to end customers and utilize reseller partners when beneficial. Highlights from the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Our revenue was $25.7 million, an increase of 6% from the three months ended March 31, 2023. We were awarded a $9.4 million contract by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for Satellite Weather Data (RO). We launched the first commercial space situational awareness satellite constellation for NorthStar Earth & Space. We and Signal Ocean began collaborating to drive digitalization of the maritime economy and Signal Ocean made a $10 million strategic investment in the Company. We were awarded 8.4M by the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) for the provision of SAT-AIS data services. We began collaborating with NVIDIA to enhance AI-driven weather prediction. We announced a space services deal to scale constellation for HANCOM InSpace. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Impact Over the past two years, we have been impacted by the macroeconomic environment, such as fluctuations in foreign currencies, increasing interest rates and geopolitical conflicts like the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Israel's war with Hamas and the increased tensions between China and the U.S. The U.S. dollar exhibited a modest decrease in strength against the local functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This had a marginal positive impact on our revenue, as about one-third of our sales are conducted in foreign currencies. Conversely, it had a marginal unfavorable impact on our expenses, given that a majority of our workforce resides in countries other than the United States. The macroeconomic environment has caused existing or potential customers to re-evaluate their decision to purchase our offerings, at times resulting in additional customer discounts, extended payment terms, longer sales cycles, and a few contract cancellations. Particularly, the U.S. Congress' delay in approving appropriations bills negatively impacted the timeliness of some of our U.S. federal government orders and revenues expected in the first quarter of 2024. Increasing interest rates in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 resulted in higher interest expenses, as our credit facility is based on a floating interest rate. The Russian invasion of Ukraine and the continued conflict created additional global sanctions, which at times caused scheduling shifts or launch cancellations by third-party satellite launch providers and negatively impacted the availability of launch windows and our constellation replenishment efforts. If any of these factors continue or worsen, and/or if new macroeconomic or geopolitical issues arise, our results and financial condition could be further negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, downturn, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry or geography. Any downturn of the general economy or industries in which we operate would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our current and future performance depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, those described below. While these areas present significant opportunity, they also present risks that we must manage to achieve successful results. For additional information about these risks, see the section titled Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K). If we are unable to address these risks, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Expansion of and Further Penetration of Our Customer Base We employ a land and expand business model that focuses on efficiently acquiring new customers (land) and then growing our relationships with these customers over time (expand). We have the capability to offer customers additional data sets and a variety of enhanced features that potentially grow the value of the services for which our customers contract with us. Our future revenue growth and our path to profitability are dependent upon our ability to continue to land new customers and then expand adoption of our solutions within their organizations. We track our progress landing new customers by measuring the number of ARR Solution Customers (as defined below) we have from one fiscal period to the next. The number of ARR Solution Customers decreased to 708 as of March 31, 2024. We track our increases and decreases in our customer contract values by measuring our ARR Net Retention Rate (as defined below). Our ARR Net Retention Rate was 102% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 108% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Expansion into New Industries and Geographies As our solutions have grown, we continue to focus on further penetration of our initial industries including maritime, aviation, logistics, and government (civil and defense/intelligence) among others. We believe our technology and solutions give us the ability to also expand into additional industries, including energy, financial services, agriculture, transportation, and insurance, and into additional geographies, including Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. Our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand into new industries and geographies. The costs associated with these expansions may adversely affect our results of operations. Impact of the Solar Cycle on our Assets' Remaining Life A stronger solar cycle has the potential to impact some of our satellites, accelerating their deorbiting and shortening their useful lives. The solar cycle is the cycle that the Suns magnetic field goes through approximately every 11 years. In 2019, NOAA, NASA, and the International Space Environment Services panel forecasted that Solar Cycle 25 (December 2019 to approximately 2030) would be relatively weak after a relatively weak Solar Cycle 24 (December 2008 to December 2019). Subsequently, NOAA noted that Solar Cycle 24 was the weakest cycle in 100 years with sunspots reaching a maximum of 116 below the average of 179. In October of 2023, NOAA updated their projection for the strength and duration of Solar Cycle 25, stating that the cycle is expected to be more intense than Cycle 24, and predicting that the peak of the cycle would be earlier, by the end of 2024. A stronger solar cycle may accelerate the deorbiting of our satellites sooner than expected or planned. Our ability to minimize the solar cycle impact, our ability to replenish our existing constellation in a timely manner and the costs associated with these actions may adversely affect our results of operations. Investment in Growth We continue investing in growing our business and capitalizing on our market opportunities while balancing the uncertainties from the macroeconomic environment and geopolitical factors. We intend to continue to add headcount to our global sales and marketing teams to acquire new customers and to increase sales to existing customers. We also intend to continue to add headcount as needed to our research and development teams and otherwise invest to improve and innovate our nanosatellite, ground station and data analytics technologies. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our spending on research and development increased by $0.2 million, or 3%, from the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our total headcount across all functions increased from 418 employees as of March 31, 2023, to 430 employees as of March 31, 2024. The costs of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth. Acquisitions Our business strategy may include acquiring other complementary solutions, technologies, or businesses that we believe will allow us to continue on our path to profitability, reduce the time or costs required to develop new technologies, incorporate enhanced functionality into and complement our existing solution offerings, augment our engineering workforce and enhance our technological capabilities. Impact of Foreign Exchange Rates We report in U.S. dollars, and the functional currency of our foreign operating subsidiaries is the local currency, including the Euro, the British Pound, the Singapore Dollar and the Canadian Dollar. The U.S. dollar exhibited a modest decrease in strength against the local functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This had a marginal positive impact on our revenue, as about one-third of our sales are conducted in foreign currencies. Conversely, it had a marginal unfavorable impact on our expenses, given that a majority of our workforce resides in countries other than the United States. Approximately 31% of our revenues were generated in non-U.S. dollar-denominated currencies. The financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates in effect at each balance sheet date for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during the period for revenues and expenses. To the extent we experience significant currency fluctuations, our results of operations may be impacted. 30 Key Business Metrics We review the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: ARR ARR Customers ARR Solution Customers ARR Net Retention Rate Annual Recurring Revenue We define ARR as our expected annualized revenue from customers that are under contracts with us at the end of the reporting period with a binding and renewable agreement for our subscription solutions or customers that are under a binding multi-year contract that can range from components of our Space Services solution to a project-based customer solution. Customers with project-based contracts are considered recurring when there is a multi-year binding agreement that has a renewable component in the contract. Customers are also considered recurring when they have multiple contracts over multiple years. Customer contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR. Our ARR growth in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was driven by increasing the amount of ARR business with our existing customers. Due in part to the timing of some of our project-based contracts, including when engagements start and stop, our ARR has fluctuated from period to period in the past, and we expect our ARR to continue to fluctuate from period to period in the future. ARR is a leading indicator and accordingly will tend to outpace the impact on our revenue as we recognize the contract value of various agreements over time. The following table summarizes our ARR as of each period end indicated: As of March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change ARR $ 120,890 $ 104,763 15 % Number of ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers We define an ARR Customer as an entity that has a contract with us or through our reseller partners contracts, that is either a binding and renewable agreement for our subscription solutions, or a binding multi-year contract as of the measurement date independent of the number of solutions the entity has under contract. A single organization with separate subsidiaries, segments, or divisions may represent multiple customers, as we treat each entity that is invoiced separately as an individual customer. In cases where customers subscribe to our platform through our reseller partners, each end customer that meets the above definition is counted separately as an ARR Customer. All entities that have contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR Customers. We define an ARR Solution Customer similarly to an ARR Customer, but we count every solution the customer has with us separately. As a result, the count of ARR Solution Customers exceeds the count of ARR Customers at each period end, as some customers contract with us for multiple solutions. Our multiple solutions customers are those that are under contract for at least two of our solutions: Maritime, Aviation, Weather, and Space Services. All entities that have contracts for data trials and one-time transactions are excluded from the calculation of ARR Solution Customers. The decrease in each of our ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers at the dates presented was driven by our move to de-emphasize sales to customers with very low ARR or revenue. We expect this strategy to increase our ARR and revenue per customer, increase our ARR in total, and reduce our customer count as we drive towards the most efficient use of our resources. The following table summarizes the number of our ARR Customers and ARR Solution Customers as of each period end indicated: As of March 31, 2024 2023 % Change ARR Customers 672 755 (11 )% ARR Solution Customers 708 781 (9 )% ARR Net Retention Rate We calculate our ARR Net Retention Rate for a particular fiscal period end by dividing (i) our ARR from those ARR Customers at that fiscal period end that were also customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal period end by (ii) the ARR from all customers as of the last day of the prior fiscal period. This calculation measures the overall impact from increases in customer contract value (upsells), the decreases in customer contract value (downsells) and the decreases in customer value resulting from customers that have chosen not to renew their contracts with us (lost customers). 31 The following table summarizes our ARR Net Retention Rate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change ARR Net Retention Rate 102 % 108 % (6 )% Our ARR Net Retention Rate can be impacted from period to period by large increases or decreases in customer contract value and large decreases in contract value from customers that have not renewed their contracts with us. An ARR Net Retention Rate greater than 100% is an indication that we are growing the value of the solutions our customers are purchasing from us at a fiscal period end versus the prior fiscal period end. An ARR Net Retention Rate less than 100% is an indication that the value of the solutions our customers are purchasing from us declined at a fiscal period end versus the prior fiscal period end. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, our ARR Net Retention Rate decreased 6% from the three months ended March 31, 2023. This decrease was driven primarily by the reduced value of NOAA's RO weather award in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the value of the corresponding award in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue from providing data, insights and access to our cloud-based technology platform sold on a subscription basis. Some of our customer arrangements include the delivery of specific performance obligations and subsequent customer acceptance of project-based deliverables, which may impact the timing of revenue recognition. Subscription periods for our solutions generally range from one to two years and are typically non-cancelable, with customers having the right to terminate their agreements only if we materially breach our obligations under the agreement. Our subscription fees are typically billed either monthly or quarterly in advance. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs, depreciation, hosted infrastructure and high-power computing costs, third-party operating and royalty costs associated with delivering our data and services to our customers and amortization of purchased intangibles associated with our acquisition of exactEarth in November 2021 (the Acquisition). Personnel costs are primarily related to the cost of our employees supporting and managing our constellation operations including satellite operations, ground station control and launch management. Costs associated with the manufacture and launch of our satellites, including personnel costs, are capitalized and depreciated upon placement in service, typically over a four-year expected useful life. As satellites reach the end of their expected useful life, they are generally replaced with replenishment satellites to maintain our constellation at optimal performance. Costs associated with the acquisition and development of new ground stations, including the bill of materials and labor to install the ground station, are capitalized and depreciated upon placement in service typically over a four-year to ten-year expected useful life. We anticipate ongoing capital spending to repair and replenish ground stations as they reach the end of their expected useful life to keep our ground station network at optimal performance. Our proprietary ground station network is primarily located in third-party locations where we incur lease and other operational charges. Cost of revenue also includes royalties associated with third-party data sets that we integrate into our data solutions. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, third-party consulting fees, and computing costs. Our research and development efforts are focused on improving our satellite technology, developing new data sets, developing new algorithms, enhancing our smart and predictive analytics, and enhancing the ease of use and utility of our space-based data solutions. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, sales commissions, marketing and advertising costs, costs incurred in the development of customer relationships, brand development costs, travel-related expenses and amortization of purchased intangible backlog associated with the Acquisition. Commission costs on new customer contract bookings are considered costs of obtaining customer contracts. Commission costs for multi-year deals are considered contract acquisition costs and are deferred and then amortized over the period of the contract excluding the last twelve months, which are expensed at the beginning of the final twelve-month period. Commission costs on contracts completed with a term of twelve months or less are expensed in the period incurred. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related expenses for personnel in our executive, finance and accounting, facilities, legal, human resources, global supply chain, and management information systems functions, as well as other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include fees related to third-party legal counsel, corporate insurance, fees related to accounting, tax and audit costs, office facilities costs, software subscription costs and other corporate costs. Loss on Decommissioned Satellites. Loss on decommissioned satellites consists of the write-off of the remaining capitalized costs associated with the manufacture and launch of our satellites prior to the end of the satellites useful life. We contract with third-party companies to launch, carry and deploy our satellites into space. A loss could result from a third-party launch or deployer failure, a technical failure of the satellite, or the deorbit or decommissioning of a satellite before the end of the satellites useful life. A technical failure could include a satellite that is not able to communicate with our network of ground stations or fulfill its intended technical mission for a duration greater than one month. The loss amount is presented net of any insurance proceeds received. Due to the nature of these events, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of future satellite deorbit and launch failure losses. While we sometimes purchase launch insurance when financially practical, the proceeds from these policies will typically only 32 cover a portion of our loss in the event of an unplanned satellite deorbit or launch failure. We incurred a $0.2 million loss on decommissioned satellites for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and no loss on decommissioned satellites for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income includes interest earned on our cash balances and short-term marketable securities. Interest Expense. Interest expense includes interest costs associated with our debt and amortization of deferred financing costs. Change in Fair Value of Contingent Earnout Liability. Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability includes mark-to-market adjustments to reflect changes in the fair value of the contingent earnout liability. Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liabilities. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities includes mark-to-market adjustments to reflect changes in fair value of warrant liabilities. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt includes accelerated debt issuance expenses, legal and other fees associated with the payoff or refinancing of existing debt. Foreign Exchange Gain/Loss. Foreign exchange gain/loss consists of the net effect of realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses resulting from changes in the underlying currency rates relative to the U.S. dollar as we re-measure foreign currency denominated transactions and balances into the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. We use the local currency as our functional currency for transactions and balances in Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Singapore and Canada. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net consists primarily of tax credits, grant income, share of equity investment loss, sales and local taxes, and write-off of certain prepaid assets and legal settlements. Income Tax Provision Provision for income taxes consists of federal income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. We do not provide for income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since we intend to invest these earnings outside of the United States permanently. We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Revenue $ 25,688 $ 24,168 Cost of revenue(1) 12,546 10,360 Gross profit 13,142 13,808 Operating expenses(1): Research and development 9,909 9,663 Sales and marketing 5,118 6,850 General and administrative 9,818 11,770 Loss on decommissioned satellites 178 Total operating expenses 25,023 28,283 Loss from operations (11,881 ) (14,475 ) Other income (expense): Interest income 454 565 Interest expense (5,053 ) (4,578 ) Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability (45 ) 76 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities (4,202 ) 746 Issuance of stock warrants (2,399 ) Foreign exchange (loss) gain (1,538 ) 1,024 Other expense, net (551 ) (762 ) Total other expense, net (13,334 ) (2,929 ) Loss before income taxes (25,215 ) (17,404 ) Income tax provision 41 269 Net loss $ (25,256 ) $ (17,673 ) 33 (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Cost of revenue $ 61 $ 77 Research and development 1,018 651 Sales and marketing 675 437 General and administrative 1,874 1,481 Total stock-based compensation $ 3,628 $ 2,646 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Revenue $ 25,688 $ 24,168 6 % Total revenue increased $1.5 million, or 6%, driven primarily by increasing the amount of ARR business with our existing customers combined with growth in revenue recognized for milestone-based projects, partially offset by a decrease in our RO-based revenue primarily from the reduced value of NOAA's RO weather award in the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the value of the corresponding award in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our ARR Customers decreased 11%, from 755 as of March 31, 2023 to 672 as of March 31, 2024. This was aligned with our stated move to de-emphasize sales to customers with very low ARR or revenue. Our ARR Net Retention Rate was 102% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to 108% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, driven primarily by the reduced value of NOAAs RO weather award. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we derived 55% of our revenue from the Americas, 36% of our revenue from Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) and 8% of our revenue from Asia Pacific (APAC). For the three months ended March 31, 2023, we derived 53% of our revenue from the Americas, 36% of our revenue from EMEA and 11% of our revenue from APAC. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we derived 66% of our revenue from subscription arrangements, compared to 78% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. This percentage mix can fluctuate significantly from period to period driven primarily by the timing of the non-subscription revenue recognition in our contracts. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Total cost of revenue $ 12,546 $ 10,360 21 % Gross profit 13,142 13,808 (5 )% Gross margin 51 % 57 % (6 )% Headcount (at end of period) 36 41 (12 )% Cost of revenue increased $2.2 million, or 21%, primarily driven by an increase in depreciation expense of $2.9 million and partially offset by a decrease in computing costs of $0.3 million, a decrease in personnel costs of $0.3 million and a decrease in other miscellaneous expenses of $0.1 million. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily driven by a reset of the estimated useful lives of our satellites to account for the potential impact of increased solar activity related to the current solar cycle. The decrease in computing costs was driven by cloud platform efficiencies. The decrease in personnel costs was driven by an overall reduction in headcount. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was 51% and 57%, respectively. The decrease was driven primarily by higher depreciation expense as described above. This metric can fluctuate significantly from period to period driven primarily by the timing of the revenue as well as the timing of our technology investments to support future revenue. We expect cost of revenue, including depreciation and amortization expenses, third-party operating costs and royalties, and high-powered computing costs, to decrease in absolute dollars during the remainder of the year as accelerated depreciation declines to reflect our constellation replenishment efforts. We anticipate gross margins to increase closer to the 65-70% level as a consequence of our sales increases and reductions in cost of revenue. 34 Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of our research and development, our sales and marketing, and our general and administrative expenses, as well as loss on decommissioned satellites in some periods. As we continue to invest in our growth, including through hiring additional personnel, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as revenue grows; however, we expect our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease over time. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Research and development $ 9,909 $ 9,663 3 % Percentage of total revenue 39 % 40 % Headcount (at end of period) 232 211 10 % Research and development expenses increased $0.2 million, or 3%, primarily driven by an increase in professional services fees of $0.2 million, an increase in software expenses of $0.2 million and an increase in personnel costs of $0.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in bonus expenses of $0.3 million. The increase in professional services fees and software expenses was driven by additional technical resources required to support new development processes and capabilities. The increase in personnel costs was driven by overall growth in headcount. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods primarily due to higher headcount as we continue to invest in the development of our solutions offerings and new technologies; however, we expect research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue in future periods as our revenue growth exceeds our increase in research and development spend. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Sales and marketing $ 5,118 $ 6,850 (25 )% Percentage of total revenue 20 % 28 % Headcount (at end of period) 70 80 (13 )% Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.7 million, or 25%, primarily driven by a decrease in bad debt expenses of $0.8 million, a decrease in bonus expenses of $0.4 million, a decrease in personnel costs of $0.2 million, a decrease in marketing expenses of $0.2 million and a decrease in other miscellaneous operating expenses of $0.1 million. The decrease in bad debt expenses was driven by cash collections and recovery efforts. The decrease in personnel costs was driven by an overall reduction in headcount. The decrease in marketing expenses was driven by lower advertising and event spend compared to the prior year quarter. We expect sales and marketing expenses to generally grow in absolute dollars in the future, primarily due to increased employee-related expenses as we grow our headcount, to support our sales and marketing efforts and our continued expansion of our sales capacity across our solutions; however, we expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease in future periods as our revenue growth exceeds our increases in sales and marketing spend. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change General and administrative $ 9,818 $ 11,770 (17 )% Percentage of total revenues 38 % 49 % Headcount (at end of period) 92 86 7 % General and administrative expenses decreased $2.0 million, or 17%, primarily driven by a decrease in bonus expenses of $0.7 million, a reduction in insurance costs of $0.4 million and a reduction in professional services of $0.4 million. The decrease in bonus expenses was driven by lower bonus accruals for management. The decrease in business insurance costs was driven by an improvement in annual rates particularly on directors and officers insurance. The reduction in professional services was driven by lower legal and accounting service fees versus the prior year period. We expect our general and administrative expenses to generally grow in absolute dollars in future periods as our employee-related expenses increase to support our revenue growth; however, we expect our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease as revenue growth exceeds our increases in general and administrative spend. 35 Loss on Decommissioned Satellites Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Loss on decommissioned satellites $ 178 $ * Percentage of total revenues 1 % % *Not Meaningful In the three months ended March 31, 2024, we recognized a non-cash expense of $0.2 million on decommissioned satellites prior to the ends of their useful lives. There were no satellites decommissioned or impaired in the three months ended March 31, 2023. Due to the nature of these events, we cannot predict the magnitude or frequency of future decommissioning losses. While we sometimes purchase launch insurance when financially practical, the proceeds from these policies will typically only cover a portion of our loss in the event of an unplanned satellite deorbit or launch failure. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Interest income $ 454 $ 565 (20 )% Interest expense $ (5,053 ) $ (4,578 ) 10 % Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability $ (45 ) $ 76 (159 )% Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ (4,202 ) $ 746 (663 )% Issuance of stock warrants $ (2,399 ) $ * Foreign exchange (loss) gain $ (1,538 ) $ 1,024 (250 )% Other expense, net $ (551 ) $ (762 ) (28 )% *Not Meaningful Interest income decreased by $0.1 million driven by lower short-term marketable securities available for investments. Interest expense increased $0.5 million, or 10%, primarily as a result of incurring higher interest and amortized debt issuance costs associated with our Blue Torch Finance LLC (Blue Torch) term loan. Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability was an immaterial loss in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a gain of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, a reduction of 159%. The loss in three months ended March 31, 2024 was driven by an increase in the fair value of the liability driven by appreciation of the underlying stock price in the period. The gain in the prior period was primarily driven by the decrease in the fair value of the liability due to the decline in the underlying stock price during the period. For additional information, see Notes 2 and 8 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Notes 2 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2023 Form 10-K. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities was a loss of $4.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a gain of $0.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023, a reduction of 663%. The $4.2 million loss in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by the appreciation of the underlying stock valuation for the warrants issued to Blue Torch and subsequently amended in July 2023. Issuance of stock warrants was a net loss of $2.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to no such expense in the three months ended March 31, 2023. In March 2024, we entered into a definitive Securities Purchase Agreement with institutional investors that included the issuance of stock warrants. We recognized a foreign exchange loss of $1.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a foreign exchange gain of $1.0 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023. The loss in 2024 was driven mainly by the revaluation of intercompany balances between our Luxemburg entity and the US denominated in U.S. dollars. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar for the period ended March 31, 2024 relative to Europe at December 31, 2023 triggered the revaluation and unrealized losses. The gain in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was a consequence of the U.S. dollar weakening during the period relative to the local currencies of our subsidiaries at year end 2022. The driver was also unrealized foreign exchange from intercompany balances owed from Luxemburg to our U.S. entities denominated in U.S. dollars. Other expense, net was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of 28% relative to the three months ended March 31, 2023, mostly driven by lower state taxes. 36 Income Tax Provision Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 % Change Income tax provision $ 41 $ 269 (85 )% Income tax provision decreased $0.2 million, or 85%, primarily driven by the research and development expenditure deduction in our U.K. subsidiary. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We believe that in addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, non-GAAP Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance and facilitates period to period comparisons of operations, as this eliminates the effects of certain variables from period to period for reasons that we do not believe reflect our underlying business performance. In addition to our GAAP measures, we use this non-GAAP financial measure internally for budgeting and resource allocation purposes and in analyzing our financial results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe that excluding the following items provides information that is helpful in understanding our results of operations, evaluating our future prospects, comparing our financial results across accounting periods, and comparing our financial results to our peers, many of which provide similar non-GAAP financial measures. Loss on satellite deorbit, launch failure and decommissioning. We exclude loss on satellite deorbit, launch failure and decommissioning because if there was no loss, the expense would be accounted for as depreciation and would also be excluded as part of our EBITDA calculation. Other (expense) income, net. We exclude other (expense) income, net because it includes unusual items that do not reflect the underlying operational results of our business. Examples of such expenses include prepayment penalties on outstanding debt and vendor dispute legal settlements. Stock-based compensation. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we exclude from our internal management reporting processes. We also find it useful to exclude these expenses when we assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation (ASC 718), we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business results of operations and those of other companies. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities and contingent earnout liabilities. Spire excludes this as it does not reflect the underlying cash flows or operational results of the business. Loss on extinguishment of debt. We exclude this as it does not reflect the underlying cash flows or operational results of the business. Foreign exchange gain/loss. We are exposed to foreign currency gains or losses on outstanding foreign currency denominated receivables and payables related to certain customer sales agreements, product costs and other operating expenses. As we do not actively hedge these currency exposures, changes in the underlying currency rates relative to the U.S. dollar may result in realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses between the time these receivables and payables arise and the time that they are settled in cash. Since such realized and unrealized foreign currency gains and losses are the result of macro-economic factors and can vary significantly from one period to the next, we believe that exclusion of such realized and unrealized gains and losses is useful to management and investors in evaluating the performance of our ongoing operations on a period-to-period basis. Amortization of purchased intangibles. We incur amortization expense for purchased intangible assets in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of intangible assets is a non-cash expense and is inconsistent in amount and frequency because it is significantly affected by the timing, size of acquisitions and the inherent subjective nature of purchase price allocations. Because these costs have already been incurred and cannot be recovered, and are non-cash expenses, we exclude these expenses for our internal management reporting processes. Our management also finds it useful to exclude these charges when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. It is important to note that while this amortization expense is excluded for purposes of non-GAAP presentation, the revenue of the acquired businesses is reflected in the non-GAAP measures and that the assets contribute to revenue generation. Other acquisition accounting amortization. We incur amortization expense for purchased data rights in connection with the acquisition of exactEarth and certain technologies. Amortization of this asset is a non-cash expense that can be significantly affected by the inherent subjective nature of the assigned value and useful life. Because this cost has already been incurred and cannot be recovered, and is a non-cash expense, we exclude this expense for our internal management reporting processes. Our management also finds it useful to exclude this charge when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. It is important to note that while this expense is excluded for purposes of non-GAAP presentation, the revenue of the acquired companies is reflected in the non-GAAP measures and that the assets contribute to revenue generation. 37 Mergers and acquisition related expenses. We exclude these expenses as they are transaction costs and expenses associated with the transaction that are generally infrequent in nature and not reflective of the underlying operational results of our business. Examples of these types of expenses include legal, accounting, regulatory, other consulting services, severance, and other employee costs. Other unusual and infrequent costs. We exclude these as they are unusual items that do not reflect the ongoing operational results of our business. Examples of these types of expenses include accounting, legal and other professional fees associated with the preparation and filing of our September 2022 Form S-3 shelf registration statement and at-the-market offering prospectus supplement, and the December 2022 warrant exchange. EBITDA. We define EBITDA as net income (loss), plus depreciation and amortization expense, plus interest expense, and plus the provision for (or minus benefit from) income taxes. Adjusted EBITDA. We define Adjusted EBITDA as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, further adjusted for any loss on satellite deorbit, launch failure and decommissioning, change in fair value of warrant liabilities, change in fair value of contingent earnout liability, other (expense) income, net, stock-based compensation, loss on extinguishment of debt, foreign exchange gain/loss, other acquisition accounting amortization, mergers and acquisition related expenses, and other unusual costs. We believe Adjusted EBITDA can be useful in providing an understanding of the underlying results of operations and trends, an enhanced overall understanding of our financial performance and prospects for the future. While Adjusted EBITDA is not a recognized measure under GAAP, management uses this financial measure to evaluate and forecast business performance. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to be a measure of liquidity or cash flows from operations or a measure comparable to net income as it does not take into account certain requirements, such as capital expenditures and related depreciation, principal and interest payments, and tax payments. Adjusted EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from the use of similarly titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Investors should note that the excluded items may have had, and may in the future have, a material impact on our reported financial results. Investors should read this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto also included within. The following table outlines the reconciliation from net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net loss $ (25,256 ) $ (17,673 ) Depreciation & amortization 6,837 3,916 Interest, net 4,599 4,013 Taxes 41 269 EBITDA (13,779 ) (9,475 ) Change in fair value of contingent earnout liability 45 (76 ) Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 4,202 (746 ) Issuance of stock warrants 2,399 Foreign exchange loss (gain) 1,538 (1,024 ) Other expense, net 551 762 Stock-based compensation 3,628 2,646 Mergers and acquisition related expenses 1,015 Loss on decommissioned satellites 178 Other acquisition accounting amortization 170 166 Adjusted EBITDA $ (1,068 ) $ (6,732 ) Limitations on the Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures provided by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which items are adjusted to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our debt; 38 Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect income tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the decommissioned satellite deorbit, launch failure and decommissioning and does not reflect the cash capital expenditure requirements for the replacements of lost satellites. While these expenses could occur in a given year, the existence and magnitude of these costs could vary greatly and are unpredictable. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. We encourage investors and others to review our financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business, and to view our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity to fund our operations are from cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, which totaled $64.0 million as of March 31, 2024, mainly from net proceeds from borrowings under the Blue Torch Credit Facility (as defined below), proceeds from the Private Placement and Offering (each as defined below), and the sale of common stock under the Equity Distribution Agreement with Canaccord Genuity LLC, as sales agent (the "Equity Distribution Agreement"). Of the $64.0 million total, $52.0 million was in cash and cash equivalents of which approximately $12.8 million was held outside of the United States. The remaining $12.0 million was held in short-term marketable securities, all of which was held in the United States and which can be converted to cash with minimal transaction costs. These amounts compare to cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $40.9 million as of December 31, 2023, of which $29.1 million was in cash and cash equivalents with $13.7 million held outside of the United States. The remaining $11.7 million was held in short-term marketable securities. The cash and cash equivalent amounts are exclusive of restricted cash which totaled $0.5 million as of each of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023. On February 4, 2024, we entered into a securities purchase agreement for the issuance and sale of 833,333 shares of our Class A common stock to Signal Ocean Ltd at a price of $12.00 per share (the Private Placement). The Private Placement closed on February 8, 2024, resulting in gross proceeds to us of $10.0 million. On March 21, 2024, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with institutional investors (the Investors), pursuant to which we issued and sold in a registered direct offering (the Offering), (i) an aggregate of 2,142,858 shares of Class A common stock and (ii) warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 2,142,858 shares of Class A common stock ("Securities Purchase Agreement Warrants") to the Investors. Each share of Class A common stock and accompanying Securities Purchase Agreement Warrant to purchase one share of Class A common stock was sold at an offering price of $14.00. The aggregate gross proceeds to us from the Offering totaled $30,000 before deducting the placement agents fees and related offering expenses. The Securities Purchase Agreement Warrants have an exercise price equal to $14.50 per share of Class A common stock, are exercisable for a term beginning on March 25, 2024 and will expire on July 3, 2024. We expect that our principal source of liquidity will be our cash and cash equivalents balance. We currently believe that we will meet our minimum liquidity covenant, as well as all other financial covenants under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement (as defined below), at each applicable measurement point over the period of at least one year from the issuance of the March 31, 2024 condensed consolidated financial statements, and that we will have sufficient working capital to operate for a period of at least one year from the issuance of the March 31, 2024 condensed consolidated financial statements, in each case based on our current cash and cash equivalent balance and expected future financial results. The sufficiency of our working capital and our ability to meet our financial covenants will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support solution development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the ongoing investments in technology infrastructure, the introduction of new and enhanced solutions, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions, all of which are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund capital expenditures, strategic initiatives or investments and our ongoing operations. In the event that we decide, or are required, to seek additional financing from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or unable to meet the minimum liquidity covenant or other financial covenants under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Blue Torch Credit Agreement On June 13, 2022, we, as borrower, and certain of our subsidiaries, as guarantors, entered into a financing agreement (the Blue Torch Financing Agreement) with Blue Torch Finance LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and certain lenders (the Lenders). The Blue Torch Financing Agreement provides for, among other things, a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $120.0 million (the Blue Torch Credit Facility). A portion of the proceeds of the term loan was used to repay our then-existing $70.0 million credit facility with FP Credit Partners, L.P., and the remainder of the proceeds of the term loan may be used for general corporate purposes. The Blue Torch Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on June 13, 2026, upon which we must repay the outstanding principal amount of any outstanding loans thereunder, together with all accrued but unpaid interest, fees and other obligations owing under the Blue Torch Credit Facility. Subject to certain exceptions, prepayments of the Blue Torch Credit Facility will be subject to early termination fees in an amount equal to 3.0% of the principal prepaid if prepayment occurs on or prior to the first anniversary of the closing date, 2.0% of principal prepaid if prepayment occurs after the first anniversary of the closing date but on or prior to the second anniversary of the closing date and 1.0% of principal prepaid if prepayment occurs after the second anniversary of the closing date but on or prior to the third anniversary of the closing date, plus if prepayment would have occurred on or prior to the first anniversary of the closing date, a make-whole amount equal to the amount of interest that would have otherwise been payable through the maturity date of the Blue Torch Credit Facility. The $120.0 million term loan was available and drawn at closing, of which $19.7 million was placed in an escrow account by Blue Torch with such amount to be released upon our achieving certain metrics related to annualized recurring revenue and a total annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio. These metrics were achieved and the $19.7 million was released from the escrow account and delivered to us in February 2023. The term loan 39 accrues interest at a floating rate, to be based, at our election, on either a reference rate or a 3-month Term Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") rate (subject to a 1.0% floor), plus an interest rate margin of 7.0% for reference rate borrowings and 8.0% for 3-month Term SOFR borrowings, plus an incremental Term SOFR margin of 0.26161%. We elected the Term SOFR rate which was 13.5766% as of March 31, 2024. Principal on the term loan is only payable at maturity and interest on the term loan is due and payable quarterly for Term SOFR borrowings. We are also required to pay other customary fees and costs in connection with the Blue Torch Credit Facility, including a commitment fee in an amount equal to $2.4 million on the closing date, a $0.3 million agency fee annually and an exit fee in an amount equal to $1.8 million upon termination of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. Our obligations under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement are or will be guaranteed by certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries meeting materiality thresholds set forth in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. Such obligations, including the guarantees, are secured by substantially all of our personal property and that of our subsidiary guarantors, including pursuant to a Security Agreement entered into on June 13, 2022 among us, Spire Global Subsidiary, Inc., Austin Satellite Design, LLC and Blue Torch. As of the closing date, such subsidiary guarantors were Spire Global Subsidiary, Inc., Austin Satellite Design, LLC, Spire Global Canada Subsidiary Corp. and exactEarth Ltd. The Blue Torch Financing Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, dispose of assets, undergo a change in control, merge or consolidate, make acquisitions, incur debt, incur liens, pay dividends, repurchase stock and make investments, in each case subject to certain exceptions. We must also comply with a maximum debt to annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio financial covenant tested monthly during the first two years of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, a maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio financial covenant tested monthly during the third and fourth years of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement and a minimum liquidity financial covenant tested at all times. As of March 31, 2024, we were in compliance with all applicable financial covenants under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement. The Blue Torch Financing Agreement also contains customary events of default that include, among other things, certain payment defaults, cross defaults to other indebtedness, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, change of control defaults, judgment defaults, and bankruptcy and insolvency defaults. If an event of default exists, Blue Torch as agent on behalf of the Lenders may require immediate payment of all obligations under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement and may exercise certain other rights and remedies provided for under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, the other loan documents and applicable law. Under certain circumstances, a default interest rate will apply on all obligations during the existence of an event of default under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement at a per annum rate equal to 2.00% above the applicable interest rate. On September 27, 2023, we entered into the Waiver and Amendment No. 2 to Financing Agreement (the Waiver and Amendment) with Blue Torch and the Lenders, which amends the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to (a) waive an event of default under the Blue Torch Financing Agreement arising out of the total annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio being greater than the permitted ratio, (b) amend the financial covenants to provide covenant relief from the maximum debt to annualized recurring revenue leverage ratio and the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio set forth in the Blue Torch Financing Agreement for future periods, and (c) provide for a second amendment exit fee. The second amendment exit fee is $1.8 million (which is an amount equal to one and a half percent (1.50%) of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the term loans on the effective date of the Waiver and Amendment), bears interest from the date of the Waiver and Amendment at Adjusted Term SOFR for a 3-month interest period plus the applicable margin under the Financing Agreement, and is payable to Blue Torch by us in cash upon the termination of the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, either as a result of acceleration of the loans or at the final maturity date. The Waiver and Amendment required a repayment by the Company of $2.5 million of the outstanding principal balance of the term loans on October 2, 2023, with a prepayment premium of $0.05 million. The Waiver and Amendment also requires additional reporting if our liquidity level is less than $35.0 million at any time during a month and revises the minimum liquidity covenant to require liquidity of at least $30.0 million at all times, commencing on September 30, 2023, which in both cases represent a $5.0 million incremental change from the original requirements. We were in compliance with all applicable financial covenants as of March 31, 2024. On June 13, 2022, in connection with the Blue Torch Financing Agreement, we issued warrants to affiliates of the Lenders to purchase shares of Class A common stock (the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants), which were exercisable for an aggregate of 437,025 shares of our Class A common stock with a per share exercise price of $16.08. In addition, on June 13, 2022, in connection with the closing of the financing, we paid Urgent Capital LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, a fee for introducing us to the Lenders, for the purpose of loan financing, in the amount equal to $0.6 million in cash and a warrant to purchase shares of Class A common stock (the GPO Warrant and, collectively with the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants and the 2023 Blue Torch Warrants (as defined below), the Credit Agreement Warrants), which is exercisable for an aggregate of 24,834 shares of our Class A common stock with a per share exercise price of $16.08. On September 27, 2023, in connection with the Waiver and Amendment, we and certain affiliates of Blue Torch amended and restated the 2022 Blue Torch Warrants to reduce the per share exercise price from $16.08 to $5.44. We also concurrently issued new warrants to those affiliates that are exercisable for an additional 597,082 shares of the Companys Class A common stock at a per share exercise price of $5.44 (the 2023 Blue Torch Warrants"). The Credit Agreement Warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis. The Credit Agreement Warrants are exercisable for a term beginning on the date of issuance and ending on the earlier to occur of ten years from the date of issuance or the consummation of certain of our acquisitions as set forth in the Credit Agreement Warrants. The number of shares for which the Credit Agreement Warrants are exercisable and the associated exercise price are subject to certain proportional adjustments as set forth in the Credit Agreement Warrants. On April 8, 2024, we entered into Amendment No. 3 to Financing Agreement (the Third Amendment) with Blue Torch and the Lenders, which amends the Blue Torch Financing Agreement to (i) increase the maximum debt to EBITDA leverage ratio for the monthly periods ending June 30, 2024, July 31, 2024 and August 31, 2024 and to decrease the maximum permitted ratio thereafter, and (ii) amend the minimum liquidity covenant to require liquidity of at least $20.0 million at all times, commencing on April 8, 2024, which represents a $10.0 million decrease from the requirement 40 in effect immediately prior to the effective date of the Third Amendment. On April 8, 2024, in accordance with the terms of the Third Amendment, we made a repayment to Blue Torch of $10.0 million in principal, plus an early termination fee of $0.2 million. Government Loan As part of the Acquisition in November 2021, we assumed a loan agreement with the Strategic Innovation Fund ("SIF") which was recorded at fair value of the debt. As of March 31, 2024, $5.0 million was included in long-term debt, non-current on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets related to the SIF loan agreement. Under this agreement and subsequent amendment, we were eligible to receive funding for certain expenditures incurred from February 13, 2018 to May 12, 2023, up to a maximum of $5.7 million. The loan is repayable in 15 annual payments beginning February 28, 2026 and has a stated interest rate of zero. For additional information, see Note 6 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Equity Distribution Agreement On September 14, 2022, we entered into the Equity Distribution Agreement with Canaccord Genuity LLC, as sales agent. In accordance with the terms of the Equity Distribution Agreement, we may offer and sell shares of our Class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $85.0 million from time to time through the agent pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3, which became effective on September 26, 2022. In June 2023, we sold approximately 2.2 million shares of our Class A common stock through this arrangement, resulting in net proceeds of $7.9 million. As of March 31, 2024, approximately $76.8 million of shares were remaining, but had not yet been sold, under the Equity Distribution Agreement. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our net cash used in operating activities, net cash used in investing activities, and net cash provided by financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,345 ) $ (11,290 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (8,684 ) $ (6,957 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 38,148 $ 19,886 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, expenses related to our technology infrastructure, expenses related to our computing infrastructure (including computing power, database storage and content delivery costs), building infrastructure costs (including leases for office space), fees for third-party services, and marketing program costs. Net cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $7.3 million. This reflected our net loss of 25.3 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $19.3 million and a net decrease of $1.3 million in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items primarily consisted of $6.9 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $4.2 million change in fair value of warrant liabilities, $3.7 million of stock-based compensation expense, $2.4 million of issuance of stock warrants expense, $0.9 million of debt issuance amortization costs, $0.8 million of amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets, and a $0.4 million loss on decommissioned satellites and impairment of assets. Changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily included a $2.6 million increase in accounts receivable, net, a $1.5 million decrease in accounts payable, and a $0.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities. This was partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in other accrued expenses, a $0.8 million increase in contract liabilities, a $0.6 million decrease in contract assets, a $0.5 million decrease in other long-term assets, a $0.4 million decrease in other current assets, and a $0.4 million increase in accrued wages and benefits. Net cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $11.3 million. This reflected our net loss of $17.7 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $6.4 million and an immaterial net change in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items primarily included $3.9 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $2.6 million of stock-based compensation, $0.6 million of debt issuance amortization costs, and $0.2 million of amortization of operating lease assets, partially offset by a $0.7 million gain on change in fair value of warrant liability and a $0.1 million gain on change in fair value of contingent earnout liability. Changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily included a $0.9 million increase in contract assets, a $0.6 million decrease in accounts payable, a $0.5 million decrease in other accrued expenses, and a $0.2 million decrease in operating lease liabilities. This was primarily offset by a $1.3 million increase in contract liabilities, a $0.4 million decrease in other long-term assets, a $0.3 million increase in accrued wages and benefits, a $0.1 million decrease in other current assets, and a $0.1 million decrease in accounts receivable, net. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to cash used for business acquisitions, the procurement, development, and deployment of capital assets, including satellites and related launch costs, ground stations, machinery and equipment, furniture, computer equipment and software, and leasehold improvements. 41 The following table summarizes our net cash used in investing activities relating to capital expenditures by source of spend: Three Months Ended March 31, % (dollars in thousands) 2024 2023 Change Spire platform / Infrastructure $ 636 $ 1,354 (53 )% Customer funded (Space Services) 7,928 3,295 141 % Total CapEx $ 8,564 $ 4,649 84 % Net cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $8.7 million. This was driven by purchases of $10.9 million in short-term investments and $8.6 million of investment in property and equipment, partially offset by $10.8 million in maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $7.0 million. This was driven by purchases of $13.9 million in short-term investments and $4.7 million of investment in property and equipment, partially offset by $11.6 million in maturities of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities relate primarily to net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, convertible notes, warrants and Class A common stock. Net cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $38.1 million. This was driven by $37.9 million of proceeds from securities purchase agreements with Signal Ocean Ltd. and certain institutional investors and $0.3 million of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $19.9 million. This was driven by $19.9 million from the Blue Torch term loan that was released from escrow in the quarter. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In the preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in our 2023 Form 10-K. 42 Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted and Not Yet Adopted See Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as modified by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act (the "JOBS Act"). Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date that we are (i) no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with the new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Smaller Reporting Company Status Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (i) the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $250 million as of the prior June 30, or (ii) our annual revenues exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30.