ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q ("Quarterly Report") contains forward-looking statements and information relating to Spok Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, we, "us," Spok, our or the Company) that set forth anticipated results based on managements current plans, known trends and assumptions. These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or that include words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, target, forecast and similar expressions, as they relate to Spok are forward-looking statements. Although these statements are based upon current plans, known trends and assumptions that management considers reasonable, they are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this section and "Risk Factors" below and under the captions Business, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), and Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 ("2024 Annual Report"). Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, known trends change, or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from past results and those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, targeted or forecasted. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 17 The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Investors are advised to consult all further disclosures the Company makes in its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that it will file with the SEC. Also note that, in the 2024 Annual Report, the Company provides a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to its business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from past results as well as those results that may be anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, targeted or forecasted. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, investors should not consider the risk factor discussion to be a complete discussion of all of the potential risks or uncertainties that could affect Spok's business, statement of operations or financial condition, subsequent to the filing of this Quarterly Report. Overview The following MD&A is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Spok. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our 2024 Annual Report and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. A reference to a Note in this section refers to the accompanying Unaudited Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Spok, acting through its indirect wholly owned operating subsidiary, Spok, Inc., delivers smart, reliable clinical communication and collaboration solutions to organizations, primarily in the United States healthcare industry, to help protect the health, well-being and safety of individuals. Organizations rely on Spok for workflow improvement, secure messaging, paging services, contact center optimization and public safety response. Business See Note 1, "Organization and Significant Accounting Policies" in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report and Item 1. "Business" of Part I of the 2024 Annual Report, which describe our business in further detail. 18 Results of Operations The following table is a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024: For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Total % Revenue: Wireless revenue $ 18,474 $ 18,595 $ (121) (0.7) % Software revenue 17,820 16,314 1,506 9.2 % Total revenue 36,294 34,909 1,385 4.0 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue (exclusive of items shown separately below) 7,212 7,139 73 1.0 % Research and development 3,055 2,951 104 3.5 % Technology operations 5,850 6,299 (449) (7.1) % Selling and marketing 4,845 4,149 696 16.8 % General and administrative 8,398 7,984 414 5.2 % Depreciation and accretion 859 1,068 (209) (19.6) % Severance and restructuring 57 428 (371) (86.7) % Total operating expenses 30,276 30,018 258 0.9 % Operating income 6,018 4,891 1,127 23.0 % Interest income 219 254 (35) (13.8) % Other income (expense) 22 (2) 24 (1,200.0) % Income before income taxes 6,259 5,143 1,116 21.7 % Provision for income taxes (1,063) (907) (156) 17.2 % Net income $ 5,196 $ 4,236 $ 960 22.7 % Supplemental Information Full-Time Equivalent ("FTE") Employees 418 392 26 6.6 % Active transmitters 2,966 3,165 (199) (6.3) % Revenue We offer a focused suite of unified clinical communications and collaboration solutions that include call center applications, clinical alerting and notifications, one-way and advanced two-way wireless messaging services, mobile communications and public safety solutions. We develop, sell and support enterprise-wide systems for healthcare, government, large enterprise and other organizations needing to automate, centralize and standardize their approach to clinical and critical communications and collaboration. Our solutions can be found in prominent hospitals, large government agencies, leading public safety institutions, colleges and universities, large hotels, resorts and casinos, and well-known manufacturers. Our primary market is the healthcare provider industry, particularly hospitals. While we have historically identified hospitals with 200 or more beds as the primary targets for our software solutions, as well as our paging services, we have expanded our focus to include smaller hospitals with shorter sales cycles, including academic medical centers. Revenue generated by wireless messaging services (including voice mail, personalized greetings, message storage and retrieval, equipment, maintenance plans and/or equipment loss protection for both one-way and two-way messaging subscribers) is presented as wireless revenue in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenue generated by the sale of our software solutions, which includes software license, professional services (installation, consulting and training), equipment procured by us from third parties (to be used in conjunction with our software), and post-contract support (ongoing maintenance), is presented as software revenue in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our software is licensed to end users under an industry standard software license agreement. 19 Refer to Note 5, "Revenue, Deferred Revenue and Prepaid Commissions" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our wireless and software revenue streams. The table below details revenue for the periods stated: For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Total % Revenue - wireless: Paging revenue $ 17,607 $ 17,970 $ (363) (2.0) % Product and other revenue 867 625 242 38.7 % Total wireless revenue 18,474 18,595 (121) (0.7) % Revenue - software: License 2,631 2,626 5 0.2 % Professional services - projects 4,471 3,561 910 25.6 % Professional services - managed services 1,315 464 851 183.4 % Hardware 321 384 (63) (16.4) % Maintenance revenue 9,082 9,279 (197) (2.1) % Total software revenue 17,820 16,314 1,506 9.2 % Total revenue $ 36,294 $ 34,909 $ 1,385 4.0 % Wireless Revenue Wireless revenue is generally reflective of the number of units in service and measured monthly as Average Revenue Per User ("ARPU"). On a consolidated basis, ARPU is affected by several factors, including the mix of units in service and the pricing of the various components of our services. The number of units in service changes based on subscribers added, referred to as gross placements, less subscriber cancellations, or disconnects. The decrease in wireless revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, reflects a decrease in paging revenue, primarily driven by , compared to the same period in the secular decrease in our wireless units in service, from 753 thousand units as of March 31, 2024 to 705 thousand units as of March 31, 2025. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in ARPU, as a result of price increases initiated in September 2024. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, ARPU was $8.24 as compared to $7.89 for the same period in 2024. The decrease in paging revenue was partially offset by an increase in product revenue, driven by the pricing increase on one-time fees assessed for pagers not returned at contract termination, implemented in early 2025. Product revenue includes one-time fees when customers cancel our services and is highly variable as the fees are charged to customers when pagers are disconnected and the customer is unable to return the units. We believe that demand for wireless services will continue to decline for the foreseeable future in line with recent trends, as our wireless products and services are replaced with other competing technologies, such as the shift from narrowband wireless service offerings to broadband technology services. 20 The following reflects the impact of subscribers and ARPU on the change in paging revenue: For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change Due To: (in thousands) 2025 2024 Change ARPU Units Paging revenue $ 17,607 $ 17,970 $ (363) $ 746 $ (1,109) As demand for one-way and two-way messaging has declined, we have developed or added service offerings, such as encrypted paging and Spok Mobile with a pager number, to increase our revenue potential. These service offerings, along with the nominal increases in the standard rate, are designed to mitigate the decline in our wireless revenue. We will continue to explore ways to innovate and provide customers with the highest value possible. Software Revenue Software revenue consists primarily of license and subscription revenues for our healthcare communications solutions, revenue from the sale of hardware that facilitates the use of our software solutions, professional services revenue related to the implementation of our solutions, and maintenance revenue that is generated from the ongoing support of our software solutions or related hardware, typically contracted for a period of between one and three years. To a large degree, software revenue corresponds to our backlog of performance obligations ready to deliver at some point in the future, and any delays in implementation may affect the timing of revenue recognition. Our software projects generally originate from fixed-bid contracts, although many involve a protracted sales cycle and may result in unforeseen complexity and deviation from the original scope. The time needed to complete projects, therefore, may not align with our original expectations, which affects our backlog. As a result, software revenue may fluctuate on a short-term basis, and we generally evaluate longer-term trends when managing this business. Software revenue increased during the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the same period in 2024. The increase is primarily due to increases in professional services revenue, resulting from increased sales and the ratable benefit from our managed services offering as well as additional hiring efforts over the last 12 months as we aligned staffing levels with our backlog which have grown as a result of our operations bookings results. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are presented in functional categories. Certain of our functional categories are especially important to overall expense control and management. These operating expenses are categorized as follows: Cost of Revenue. These are expenses we incur for the delivery of products and services to our customers and consist primarily of hardware, third-party software, outside services expenses and payroll and related expenses for our professional services, logistics, customer support and maintenance staff. Research and Development. These expenses relate primarily to the development of new software products and the ongoing maintenance and enhancement of existing products. This classification consists primarily of employee payroll and related expenses, outside services related to the design, development, testing and enhancement of our solutions and, to a lesser extent, hardware equipment. Research and development expenses exclude any development costs that qualify for capitalization. Technology Operations. These are expenses associated with the operation of our paging networks. Expenses consist largely of site rent expenses for transmitter locations, telecommunication expenses to deliver messages over our paging networks, and payroll and related expenses for our engineering and pager repair functions. We actively pursue opportunities to consolidate transmitters and other service, rental and maintenance expenses in order to maintain an efficient network while simultaneously ensuring adequate service for our customers. We believe continued reductions in these expenses will occur for the foreseeable future as we continue to consolidate our networks, although the benefits of such network rationalization efforts and resulting costs savings will continue to decline. 21 Selling and Marketing. The sales and marketing staff are involved in selling our communication solutions primarily in the United States. These expenses support our efforts to maintain gross placements of units in service, which mitigated the impact of disconnects on our wireless revenue base, and to identify business opportunities for additional or future software sales. We maintain a centralized marketing function that is focused on supporting our products and vertical sales efforts by strengthening our brand, generating sales leads and facilitating the sales process. These marketing functions are accomplished through targeted email campaigns, webinars, regional and national user conferences, monthly newsletters and participation at industry trade shows. Expenses consist largely of payroll and related expenses, commissions and other costs such as travel and advertising costs. General and Administrative. These are expenses associated with information technology and administrative functions, including finance and accounting, human resources and executive management. This classification consists primarily of payroll and related expenses, outside service expenses, taxes, licenses and permit expenses, and facility rent expenses. Depreciation and Accretion. These are expenses that may be associated with one or more of the aforementioned functional categories. This classification generally consists of depreciation from capital expenditures or other assets that are core to our ongoing operations and accretion of asset retirement obligations. The following is a review of our operating expense categories for the three months ended March 31, 2025, and 2024. Technology operations: decreased by $0.4 million, or 7.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 2024. The decrease was driven by a reduction in the number of active transmitters, resulting from our network rationalization efforts. The number of active transmitters, which directly affects our telecommunications and site rent expenses, declined 6.3% from March 31, 2024 to March 31, 2025. As we reach certain minimum frequency commitments, as outlined by the United States Federal Communications Commission, we may be unable to continue our efforts to rationalize and consolidate our networks. Selling and marketing: increased by $0.7 million, or 16.8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 2024. The increase was primarily driven by additional headcount, higher advertising and events expenses due to increased trade show participation and overall travel, and higher commissions related to software operations bookings compared to the same period in 2024. General and administrative: increased by $0.4 million, or 5.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 2024. The increase was primarily driven by the timing of certain technology and outside services costs related to maintaining compliance with regulations compared to the same period in 2024. Income taxes: Provision for income taxes was $1.1 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Provision for income taxes increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024, primarily due to the effect of the anticipated annual effective tax rate change resulting from certain permanent tax differences, estimated research and development tax credits and related valuation allowance, and certain discrete items. Further details can be found in Note 11, "Income Taxes" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents As of March 31, 2025, we held cash and cash equivalents of $19.9 million. The available cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in our operating accounts and cash invested in interest-bearing funds managed by third-party financial institutions. We maintain a majority of our cash and cash equivalents in accounts with major United States and multi-national financial institutions, and the majority of our deposits at these institutions exceed insured limits. Market conditions can impact the viability of these institutions. In the event of failure of any of the financial institutions where we maintain our cash and cash equivalents, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access uninsured funds in a timely manner or at all. Any inability to access or delay in accessing these funds could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cash Sources Our primary sources of liquidity have been our cash flows generated from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents. We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to meet our cash needs in both the short term (next 12 months) and long term (beyond 12 months). At any point in time, we maintain approximately $5.0 million to $10.0 million in our operating accounts at third-party financial institutions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating 22 accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or are subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in our operating accounts. Cash Uses We intend to use our cash on hand to provide working capital, to support operations, to invest in our business, and to return value to stockholders through cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock. We may also consider using cash to fund or complete opportunistic investments and acquisitions that we believe will provide a measure of growth or revenue stability while supporting our existing operations. In February 2022, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $10 million of the Companys common stock. This repurchase authority allows us, at management's discretion, to selectively repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market depending upon market price and other factors. Cash Flows Overview In the event that net cash provided by operating activities and cash on hand are not sufficient to meet future cash requirements, we may be required to reduce planned capital expenses, reduce or eliminate our cash dividends to stockholders, not repurchase shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program, sell assets or seek additional financing. We can provide no assurance that reductions in planned capital expenses or proceeds from asset sales would be sufficient to cover shortfalls in available cash or that outside financing would be available on acceptable terms. Based on current and anticipated levels of operations, we anticipate that net cash provided by operating activities, together with the available cash on hand at March 31, 2025, should be adequate to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the short term (next 12 months) and long term (beyond 12 months). The following table sets forth information on our net cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods stated: Three Months Ended March 31, Change (Dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,253 $ 1,998 $ 255 Net cash used in investing activities (745) (875) 130 Net cash used in financing activities (10,790) (9,814) (976) Operating Activities As discussed above, we are dependent on cash flows from operating activities to meet our cash requirements. Cash from operations varies depending on changes in various working capital items, including deferred revenues, accounts payable, accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and various accrued expenses. Our operating cash results primarily from cash received from our customers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, operating expenses and income taxes. Significant non-cash expenses include depreciation and accretion, deferred income tax expense and stock-based compensation. The cash impact from actual transaction gains and losses is reflected in the change in working capital. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, and March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $2.3 million, and $2.0 million, respectively, primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers, partially offset by cash payments for cost of revenues and operating expenses. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, and 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Net cash used in investing activities reflects purchases of property and equipment. 23 Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, and 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $10.8 million and $9.8 million, respectively, primarily due to cash distributions to stockholders and the purchase of common stock for tax withholding purposes on vested equity awards. On April 30, 2025, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.3125 per share of common stock with a record date of May 23, 2025 and a payment date of June 24, 2025. This cash dividend of approximately $6.4 million, applicable to our common stock outstanding, will be paid from available cash on hand. Commitments and Contingencies In the ordinary course of our operations, we enter into certain contractual obligations. Such obligations include data processing services, operating leases for premises and equipment, agreements with respect to borrowed funds and deposit liabilities. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding, non-cancelable, have a remaining term in excess of one year and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable pricing provisions; and the approximate timing of transactions. The amounts of such obligations are based on our contractual commitments; however, it is possible that we may be able to negotiate lower payments if we choose to exit these contracts before their expiration date. Our contractual payment obligations for operating leases apply to leases for office space and transmitter locations. Substantially all of these leases have lease terms ranging from one month to five years. We continue to review our office and transmitter locations and intend to replace, reduce or consolidate leases where possible. As we reach certain minimum frequency commitments, as outlined by the United States Federal Communications Commission, we may be unable to continue our efforts to rationalize and consolidate our networks. We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. The Company evaluates contingencies on an ongoing basis and establishes loss provisions for matters in which losses are probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The following table provides the Company's significant commitments and contractual obligations as of March 31, 2025: Payments Due by Period (Dollars in thousands) Total 1 year or less 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years Operating lease obligations $ 9,761 $ 3,201 $ 4,065 $ 1,515 $ 980 Unconditional purchase obligations 4,589 2,218 2,371 Total contractual obligations $ 14,350 $ 5,419 $ 6,436 $ 1,515 $ 980 Refer to Note 6, "Leases" and Note 12, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our commitments and contingencies. Related Party Transactions See Note 13, "Related Parties" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion regarding our related party transactions. 24 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preceding discussion and analysis of financial condition and operations is based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, those related to the impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, accounts receivable, revenue recognition, depreciation expense, asset retirement obligations, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies reported in the 2024 Annual Report that affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.