Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsImpact of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. In this Annual Report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references to transponder capacity or demand refer to transponder capacity or demand in the C-band and Ku-band only. Overview We operate as a fully integrated subsidiary of Intelsat, our indirect parent. As a subsidiary of Intelsat, we are part of the worlds largest fixed satellite services (FSS) business, providing a critical layer in the global communications infrastructure. Based on the scale and global coverage of our combined companys network, our combined companys extensive customer relationships and reputation for highly reliable services, we believe that Intelsat is the leading FSS company in the world. Our combined company operates more satellite capacity in orbit, has more satellite capacity under contract, serves more commercial customers and delivers services in more countries than any other commercial satellite operator. Our combined business provides mission critical communication services to the worlds leading media companies, wireline and wireless telecommunications operators, data networking service providers, multinational corporations, and Internet service providers (ISPs). The span of our combined business ranges from global distribution of content for media companies to essential network backbones for communications providers in high-growth emerging markets. Our combined business is the most diversified in the FSS sector based on types of service offerings, number of customers and revenue concentration by satellite and geography. This diversity reduces our market and operating risk. Our broad customer base and our combined companys geographic presence also provide us with early opportunities to support new communications applications in a converging world. 3 Table of Contents Our satellite-based solutions are a critical component of our customers infrastructures. Generally, our customers need the connectivity satellites provide so long as they are in business or pursuing their mission. This gives us stability during economic downturns. Our services also provide strong value in support of our customers businesses. For instance, for media applications, our satellite services provide efficient broadcast distribution that is difficult for terrestrial services to match. For network services applications, our satellite solutions provide higher reliability than is available from local terrestrial services, and allow our customers to reach geographies that they would otherwise be unable to serve. The Intelsat network supports: The distribution of television entertainment and news programming; The expansion of wireless networks in emerging regions without adequate infrastructure; Ubiquitous access to broadband for Internet and fixed and mobile networks used by corporations and other organizations; and Completion and extension of international, national and regional voice and data networks. Our combined company provides infrastructure services on a satellite fleet comprised of over 50 satellites, covering 99% of the earths populated regions. This satellite capacity is complemented by a terrestrial network comprised of leased fiber optic cable and owned and operated teleports. We believe that our combined hybrid satellite-terrestrial network provides significant differentiation and is an important element of our combined companys growth strategy. We have a reputation for operational and engineering leadership, built on Intelsats experience of over 45 years in the FSS sector. The reliability of our network is outstanding, delivering 99.9994% network availability on station-kept satellites to our customers in 2009. Our combined company built our centrally operated, fully integrated network using the worlds largest collection of FSS spectrum rights at valuable orbital locations, from which we can deliver services to established regions as well as higher-growth emerging regions. We operate in an attractive, well-developed sector of the satellite communications industry, which is benefiting from increasing demand for capacity from the commercial sector. The FSS sector is characterized by steady and predictable contracted revenue streams, high operating margins, strong cash flows and long-term contractual commitments. We believe these sector characteristics, coupled with our cost-efficient, fully integrated operating structure, provide us with an attractive business model. As of December 31, 2009, our revenue backlog, which is our expected future revenue under existing customer contracts, was approximately $4.3 billion. We typically contract with our customers for long-term commitments of up to 15 years. Approximately 97% of this backlog relates to contracts that are non-cancelable or cancelable only upon payment of substantial termination fees. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we generated revenue of $1.1 billion, a growth rate of 1% over the combined year ended December 31, 2008. We believe that our combined companys global scale and efficient operating profile, diversified customer sets and sizeable backlog, together with the growing worldwide demand for entertainment and connectivity, provide us with a platform for success. The FSS Sector Fixed satellite services are an integral part of the global communications infrastructure. The global FSS sector is expected to generate revenues of approximately $9.6 billion in 2010 according to NSR , a leading international market research and consulting firm specializing in satellite and wireless technology and applications. Our customers use our services because of the distinct technical and economic benefits that satellite services provide for certain critical applications. Satellites provide a number of advantages over terrestrial communications systems, including the following: Satellite beams effectively blanket service regions with bandwidth, enabling any user within a coverage area to have equal access to highly reliable bandwidth; 4 Table of Contents Efficient content distribution through the ability to broadcast high quality signals from a single location to many locations simultaneously; The ability to extend beyond terrestrial network end points, or provide an alternative path to terrestrial infrastructure, thus avoiding points of congestion or unreliability; Fast network deployments, with network performance easily replicated across each site regardless of geography or infrastructure, and efficient centralized control and management; Superior end-to-end network availability as compared to the availability of terrestrial networks; and Instant communications infrastructure for disaster recovery. There is a finite number of geostationary orbital slots in which FSS satellites can be located, and many orbital locations already hold operational satellites. The owners of these satellites operate them under coordination agreements designed to avoid interference with other operators satellites. Today, there are only three FSS operators, including Intelsat, providing global services, which is increasingly important as multinationals and governments seek a one-stop solution for obtaining global connectivity. In addition, there are a number of operators with fewer satellites that provide regional and/or national services. Intelsat is the largest of any operator in terms of rights to orbital slots in the most valuable C- and Ku-band spectrums. We believe a number of trends are creating increasing demand for satellite services, expanding the FSS sector: Globalization of economic activities is increasing the geographic expansion of corporations and the communications networks that support them and creating new audiences for content. Globalization also increases the communications requirements for governments supporting embassy and military applications. Connectivity and broadband access are essential elements of infrastructure supporting the rapid economic growth of developing nations. Globally dispersed organizations are increasingly moving to satellite-based infrastructure to provide better access, reliability and control. Proliferation of content and formats is resulting in increased bandwidth requirements as content owners seek to maximize distribution to multiple viewing audiences across multiple technologies. High definition television (HDTV), three-dimensional high definition television (3DTV), Internet distribution of traditional television programming, Internet protocol television (IPTV) and video to the handset are all examples of the expanding format and distribution requirements of media programmers. Mobility applications , such as wireless phone services, maritime communications and aerial services, are fueling demand for bandwidth on the move. Rapid growth in cellular services for developing regions is expected to transition demand for voice only services to demand for data and video services over time, resulting in increased network bandwidth requirements. Given the low penetration of fixed-line telephone services in emerging markets and the introduction of smart phones and netbooks, Internet access in these markets may be primarily mobile. In total, C- and Ku-band transponder service revenue in the FSS sector is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.1% from 2010 to 2015 according to NSR . The fundamentals of the sector have consistently improved over the past few years, with continued strong demand despite the generally poor economic environment in many regions of the world. The average price per transponder for the period 2009 to 2011 forecasted by NSR in its 2009 study was approximately 12.5% higher than that forecasted for the same period in a similar study issued by NSR in 2006. 5 Table of Contents Our Customer Sets Our combined company is the largest FSS operator and, based on the number of transponders contracted, Intelsat holds the leading position in each of its three customer sectors: media, network services and government. We provide satellite capacity and related communications services for the transmission of video, data and voice signals. Our customer contracts offer three different service types: transponder services, managed services and mobile satellite services and other. We also perform satellite-related consulting and technical services for various third parties, such as operating satellites for other satellite owners. Media Media customers represented 60% of our third-party revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and a contracted backlog of $3.3 billion as of such date. Our combined company provides satellite capacity for the transmission of entertainment, news, sports and educational programming for approximately 300 content providers and direct-to-home (DTH) platform operators worldwide. Our revenue generated from the media sector is generally characterized by non-cancellable, long-term contracts with terms of up to 15 years with premier customers including: National broadcasters; Content providers and distributors; Cable programmers; and DTH platform operators. Broadcasters, content providers and cable programmers seek efficient distribution of their content to make it easily obtainable by affiliates, cable operators and DTH platforms. Intelsats strong cable distribution neighborhoods offer media customers high penetration of regional and national audiences. Broadcasters, content providers and cable programmers also select us because our global capabilities enable the distribution or retrieval of content to or from virtually any point on earth. For instance, we regularly provide fully integrated global distribution networks for content providers that need to distribute their products across multiple continents. We believe DTH platform operators turn to us because the scale and flexibility of our fleet lowers their operating risk, as we have multiple satellites serving every region. Our media sector service offerings are comprised of two primary categories: Transponder services, which include: Video distribution servicesfull-time services used by programmers and broadcasters to distribute content to cable systems and to affiliates; DTH television servicesfull-time services used by DTH platform operators to distribute their content to consumer set-top boxes; and Video contribution servicesfull-time and part-time services used to gather news and events from a remote location for delivery to a production facility. Managed services, which include: Hybrid satellite, fiber and teleport managed servicesfull-time services typically used by programmers to outsource additional elements of their transmission infrastructure, such as uplinking programming in digitally compressed formats; and Part-time managed services, including occasional use services for news, sports and entertainment organizations gathering programming from a remote location for delivery to a production facility. 6 Table of Contents We believe that our combined company enjoys a strong reputation for delivering the high network reliability required to serve the demanding media sector. Our fully integrated satellite, fiber and teleport facilities provide enhanced quality control for programmers. We are increasingly offering bundled, value-added services that include managed fiber services, digital encoding of video channels and up-linking and down-linking services to and from our satellites and teleport facilities. Our bundled services address programmers interests in delivering content to multiple distribution channels, such as television and Internet, and their needs for launching programs to new regions in a cost-efficient manner. Highlights of our combined companys media business include the following: Of our combined companys 54 satellites, 25 are premium video neighborhoods, offering programmers superior audience penetration, with 10 serving the United States, five serving Latin America, three serving Asia, four serving Europe, and three serving Africa and the Middle East. We are positioned as a leading provider of global distribution to our media customers. Our top 20 video distribution customers buy service on our network across three or more geographic regions, demonstrating the value provided by the global reach of our network. In North America, we believe that our combined company is the leading provider of FSS capacity for the distribution of high definition and cable programming. Our Galaxy 13 satellite provided the first high definition neighborhood in North America, and today, the Galaxy fleet distributes nearly 150 high definition channels, and Intelsat distributes nearly 200 high definition channels on a global basis. In its 2009 study, NSR forecasted that the number of standard and high definition television channels are expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.7% from 2010 to 2015. We are a leading provider of FSS capacity for DTH services, delivering programming to millions of viewers and supporting more than 30 DTH platforms around the world. We are a leading provider of managed occasional use services for news and sports organizations. In early 2010, we landed a special events team in Haiti within hours of its tragic earthquake, providing a critical link for broadcast teams reporting on the event. In the eleven days following the event, we uplinked over 500 hours of broadcasts from the disaster zone. Global C- and Ku-band transponder revenue from FSS video applications is forecasted to grow at an overall CAGR of approximately 4.8% from 2010 to 2015, according to NSR . Network Services Network services accounted for 31% of our third-party revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 and a contracted backlog of $821 million as of such date. Our business generated from the network services sector is generally characterized by three to five year, and up to 15 year, contracts with many of the worlds leading communications providers, including: Wireline and wireless telecommunications carriers, including global, regional and national providers; Corporate network service providers; Value-added services providers, such as those serving the oil and gas and maritime industries; and Multinational corporations and entities. There is an increasing need for basic and high-speed connectivity in developed and emerging regions around the world. Our combined companys satellite capacity, paired with our terrestrial network comprised of leased fiber, teleports, and data networking platforms, enables the transmission of video, data and voice to and from virtually any point on the surface of the earth. We provide an essential element of the infrastructure supporting the rapid expansion of wireless services in many emerging markets. Penetration of 3G wireless services in developing regions is expected to reach over one billion subscribers by 2012 according to the International Telecommunications Union (the ITU). 7 Table of Contents Our network services offerings are comprised of two primary categories: Transponder services full-time capacity services used by telecom operators, wireless companies, data network operators and value-added network operators for telecom or broadband network infrastructure; and Managed services full-time services used by value-added network operators, mobile services operators, telecom operators and ISPs that provide integrated networking platforms comprised of satellite capacity, fiber, teleport and hardware. Operators and service providers use these shared, managed platforms as the basis for, or an economical extension of, their service offerings. Our network services offerings are an essential component of our customers services, providing backbone infrastructure, expanded service areas and hard-to-reach connectivities. We believe that our combined company is a preferred provider because of our global service capability and our expertise in delivering service operator-grade network availability and efficient network control. Our combined company has established regional shared data networking platforms at our teleports that are connected to over 40 of our satellites on our combined fleet. As a result, our customers can quickly establish highly reliable services across multiple regions, yet operate them on a centralized basis. Our satellite-based solutions allow customers to rapidly expand their service territories, increase the access speed and capabilities for their existing networks and efficiently address new customer and end-user requirements. Highlights of our combined companys network services business include the following: Our combined company is the leading provider of satellite capacity for voice and data applications in every region according to Euroconsult , a leading international research and consulting company specializing in space satellite communications and broadcasting; We provide services to many of the worlds largest telecommunications companies. Of the customers we categorize as telecommunications companies, our combined companys revenue from the top 25 in aggregate grew at a CAGR of 11.3% from 2007 to 2009; We believe our combined company is the leading provider of satellite capacity for cellular backhaul applications connecting a cellular access point to the telecommunications network, providing network extensions in emerging regions. Approximately 60 of our combined companys customers use our satellite-based backhaul services as a core component of their network infrastructure due to unreliable or non-existent terrestrial infrastructure. Our combined companys cellular backhaul customers include eight of the top ten mobile groups in Africa, such groups representing 64% of the regions subscribers; and Over 200 value-added network operators use our combined global broadband hybrid infrastructure to deliver regional and global services. Applications for these services include corporate networks for multi-nationals, Internet access and broadband for maritime applications. We believe our combined company is the leading provider of satellite capacity for network services, and that we are well positioned to benefit from the growing segments of this market. These segments include: Satellite-based private data networks, including VSAT networks. C- and Ku-band transponder demand for VSAT services is expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8% from 2010 to 2015, according to NSR ; Cellular backhaul via satellite, for which satellite capacity demand is expected to grow by a CAGR of 6.3% from 2010 to 2015, according to NSR ; and Broadband for maritime applications, which is expected to grow by a CAGR of 9.7% from 2010 to 2015 according to NSR . 8 Table of Contents Government Prior to the completion of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions (as defined below underOur HistoryThe Intelsat Acquisition Transactions), our former government services business was comprised of global satellite and related telecommunications services provided to the U.S. government, international government entities and their contractors. In connection with the consummation of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions, our government services business was purchased by Intelsat General Corporation (Intelsat General). Our Diverse Business Our revenue and backlog diversity spans customer sets and applications, as discussed above, as well as geographic regions and satellites. We believe our diversity allows us to recognize trends to capture new growth opportunities, and gain experience that can be transferred to customers in different regions. We believe our combined company is the sector leader by transponder share in all but one of the geographic regions covered by our combined network, and these leading positions align to the regions identified by industry analysts as those that either purchase the most satellite capacity or are emerging regions that have the highest growth prospects, such as Africa and Latin America. The diversity in our combined company also reduces our business risk. The diversity of our revenue and customer base enables us to capitalize on changing market conditions and mitigates the impact of fluctuations in any specific customer type or geographic region. The scale of our fleet can also reduce the financial impact of satellite failures and protect against service interruption. No single satellite generated more than approximately 10% of our third-party revenue and no single customer accounted for more than approximately 11% of our third-party revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. 9 Table of Contents By region and service sector, our backlog as of December 31, 2009 was as follows: Note: Regional designation for backlog is based on customer billing address. Our Strategy We seek revenue growth and increased cash flows by expanding our combined companys leading FSS business in high growth regions and applications while maintaining our focus on operational discipline. Given our efficient operating structure, we believe the strategies of our combined company will position it to continue to deliver high operating margins, and to generate strong cash flow and growth as its current combined fleet investment program is completed. The key components of our strategy include the following: Focus our core business on attractive and growing applications Our combined company has an industry-leading position in each of the customer sets served by our business. We believe our combined global network and regional strengths will allow us to capture new business opportunities as a result of the following: Network Services: Growth in multinational enterprise broadband access requirements resulting from globalization; The continued expansion of cellular networks and voice and data growth in emerging regions with inadequate infrastructure; and New broadband connectivity requirements for aerial and maritime applications. Media: Content and format proliferation, such as standard definition and high definition formats, increasing the capacity needs of our programmer customers; New and expanding DTH platforms in fast growing emerging regions; and Programmers and broadcasters seeking new global distribution capabilities to deliver content in new regions. Optimize our space-based assets, including orbital locations and spacecraft Our combined company is conducting a significant capital expenditure fleet investment program during the five-year period from 2008 to 2012. The program is designed to position the Intelsat satellite network to capitalize on the FSS sectors best growth opportunities globally, while providing optimal coverage to meet 10 Table of Contents needs across our targeted customer sets. By the conclusion of the current investment cycle in 2012, the characteristics of our refreshed combined company fleet are expected to include the following: A significant increase in the proportion of high-power, land mass-focused transponders suitable for broadband and video applications, which typically command a higher price, resulting in an opportunity to increase the overall yield on our fleet; Expanded capacity to serve our faster-growth network services customers, particularly in emerging markets; Expanded capacity at our most valuable regional video distribution neighborhoods; Reduced risk of anomalies resulting from the replacement of satellites with known health issues; No significant increase in the total amount of station-kept transponder capacity; and A longer average remaining useful life of our combined company satellite fleet. Incorporate new technology into our core combined network to capture growth from new applications and next generation customer requirements Our global scale, diversity, collection of spectrum rights, technical expertise and fully integrated hybrid network form a strategic platform that positions us to identify and capitalize on new opportunities in satellite services. Our combined company fleet is large and diversified by coverage, manufacturer and age. As satellites reach the end of their service lives, we have an ongoing opportunity to refresh the technology we use to serve our customers, resulting in flexibility to address new opportunities as they are identified. Our newer assets, including our enhanced terrestrial network, are used to address current market requirements, allowing older assets to be redeployed to serve legacy customer applications still efficiently served by those assets. As a result, we believe our combined company is well positioned to accommodate new business models as they are adopted by our customers. We expect to benefit from the general trend towards IP-based networking and distribution, including growing use of new media formats, as well as infrastructure applications in emerging regions. We are also investing in enhanced technology in our combined terrestrial network to deliver converging video and IP content, thus expanding the services we provide to the media and telecommunications industries. We intend to continue to implement compression technologies into our combined ground network to reduce the bandwidth necessary for network service applications, increasing our customers efficiency and expanding our market potential, particularly in emerging regions. Opportunistically use acquisitions and creative business structures for cost-efficient growth and attractive returns Our combined companys record of capitalizing on strategic growth opportunities through targeted acquisitions and business ventures is well established. In addition, our combined company has demonstrated its ability to integrate acquisitions efficiently and quickly, due to our scale and our centralized satellite operations philosophy. We completed the integration of the combined company as a result of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions. In recent years, Intelsat has completed other, smaller transactions involving single satellites with partners in diverse regions, such as JSAT International Inc. (JSAT) in Asia, Telenor Inma AS (Telenor) in Europe, and Convergence SPV Ltd. (Convergence Partners) in Africa. Intelsat will continue to evaluate potential asset purchases, joint ventures and creative business and financial structures that complement our combined global fleet, provide growth capacity and allow us to respond to customer needs. Our Network We have a global network of 25 satellites that are integrated with 29 satellites owned by other subsidiaries of Intelsat for a combined global network comprised of 54 satellites and ground facilities, including teleports and leased fiber that support our commercial services and the operation and control of our satellites. 11 Table of Contents Our customers depend on our combined global communications network and our operational and engineering leadership. Highlights of our combined network include: Prime orbital locations, reflecting a valuable portfolio of coordinated fixed satellite spectrum rights; Highly reliable services, including network availability of 99.9994% on our station-kept satellites for the year ended December 31, 2009; Flexibility to relocate satellites to other orbital locations as demand patterns change; Design features and steerable beams on many of our satellites that enable us to reconfigure capacity to provide different areas of coverage; and Resilience, with multiple satellites serving each region, allowing for improved restoration alternatives should a satellite anomaly occur. The table below provides a summary of our satellite fleet as of December 31, 2009, excluding the 29 satellites owned by other subsidiaries of Intelsat. Satellite Manufacturer Orbital Location Launch Date Estimated End of Service Life (1) Station Kept: HGS-3 BSS (2) 38E 2/96 9/11 IS-1R BSS 50W 11/00 2/16 IS-4 (3) BSS 72E 8/95 8/10 IS-5 BSS 169E 8/97 10/12 IS-7 SS/L (4) 68.65E 9/98 11/13 IS-8 SS/L 166E 11/98 1/14 IS-9 BSS 58W 7/00 10/12 IS-10 BSS 68.5E 5/01 6/16 IS-11 ORB (5) 317E 10/07 10/23 IS-12 SS/L 45E 10/00 1/16 IS-14 SS/L 315E 11/09 TBD Galaxy 3C BSS 95.05W 6/02 9/20 Galaxy 11 BSS 32.8E 12/99 4/15 Galaxy 12 ORB 123.1W 4/03 4/20 Galaxy 13/Horizons-1 (6) BSS 127W 9/03 12/18 Galaxy 14 ORB 125W 8/05 12/20 Galaxy 15 ORB 133W 10/05 10/22 Galaxy 16 SS/L 99W 6/06 6/24 Galaxy 17 Thales (7) 91W 5/07 5/23 Galaxy 18 SS/L 123W 5/08 5/24 Horizons-2 (8) ORB 74.05W 12/07 12/23 Inclined Orbit: Leasat F5 (9) BSS 100E 1/90 3/11 IS-2 BSS 169.1E 7/94 7/11 Galaxy 9 (10) BSS 81W 5/96 7/10 IS-3R BSS 43.1W 1/96 7/11 (1) Engineering estimates of the service life as of December 31, 2009 as determined by remaining fuel levels, consumption rates and other considerations (including power) and assuming no relocation of the satellite. (2) Boeing Satellite Systems, Inc., formerly Hughes Aircraft Company. (3) On February 1, 2010, the backup spacecraft control processor (SCP) on IS-4 failed, resulting in a loss of the spacecraft. (4) Space Systems/Loral, Inc. 12 Table of Contents (5) Orbital Sciences Corporation. (6) Horizons Satellite Holdings, LLC (Horizons), our joint venture with JSAT, owns and operates the Ku-band payload on this satellite. We are the exclusive owner of the C-band payload. (7) Thales Alenia Space. (8) Horizons owns and operates the payload on this satellite. (9) Leasat F5 provides services in the X-band and UHF-band frequencies for military applications. (10) Galaxy 9 was relocated from 74.15W to 81W and placed into an inverted North/South attitude in order to serve Latin America. Satellite Systems There are three primary types of commercial communications satellite systems: low-earth orbit systems, medium-earth orbit systems and geosynchronous systems. All of our satellites are geosynchronous satellites and are located approximately 22,300 miles, or 35,700 kilometers, above the equator. These satellites can receive radio frequency communications from an origination point, relay those signals over great distances and distribute those signals to a single receiver or multiple receivers within the coverage areas of the satellites transmission beams. Geosynchronous satellites send these signals using various parts of the radio frequency spectrum. The spectrum available for use at each orbital location includes the following frequency bands in which most commercial satellite services are offered today: C-band low power, broad beams requiring use of relatively larger antennae, valued as spectrum least susceptible to transmission impairments such as rain; Ku-band high power, narrow to medium size beams facilitating use of smaller antennae favored by businesses, but somewhat less reliable due to weather-related impairments; and Ka-band very high power, very narrow beams facilitating use of very small transmit/receive antennae, but less reliable due to high transmission impairments such as rain. The Ka-band is utilized for various applications including broadband services. Substantially all of the station-kept satellites in our fleet are designed to provide capacity using the C- and/or Ku-bands of this spectrum. A geosynchronous satellite is referred to as geostationary, or station-kept, when it is operated within an assigned orbital control, or station-keeping box, which is defined by a specific range of latitudes and longitudes. Geostationary satellites revolve around the earth with a speed that corresponds to that of the earths rotation and appear to remain above a fixed point on the earths surface at all times. Geosynchronous satellites that are not station-kept are in inclined orbit. The daily north south motion of a satellite in inclined orbit exceeds the specified range of latitudes of its assigned station-keeping box, and the satellite appears to oscillate slowly, moving above and below the equator every day. An operator will typically operate a satellite in inclined orbit toward the end of its service life because the operator is able to save significant amounts of fuel by not controlling the north-south position of the satellite and is thereby able to substantially extend the service life of the satellite. The types of services and customers that can access an inclined orbit satellite have traditionally been limited due to the movement of the satellite relative to a fixed ground antenna; however, recent technology innovations now allow the use of inclined orbit capacity for certain applications. As a result, we anticipate demand for inclined orbit capacity may increase over the next few years if these applications are successfully introduced. As of December 31, 2009, four of our satellites were operating in an inclined orbit, with most continuing to earn revenue beyond our original estimated life for each of these satellites. In-Orbit Satellites We believe that the strong operational performance of our combined company is due primarily to our satellite procurement and operations philosophy. Our operations and engineering staff is involved from the design through the decommissioning of each satellite that we procure. Our staff works at the manufacturers and 13 Table of Contents launchers sites to monitor progress, allowing us to maintain close technical collaboration with our contractors during the process of designing, manufacturing and launching a satellite. We continue our engineering involvement throughout the operating lifetime of each satellite. Extensive monitoring of earth station operations and around-the-clock satellite control and network operations support ensure our consistent operational quality, as well as timely corrections when problems occur. In addition, we have in place contingency plans for technical problems that may occur during the lifetime of a satellite. These features also contribute to the resilience of our network, which enables us to ensure the continuity of service that is important for our customers and to retain revenue in the event that we need to move customers to alternative capacity. The design flexibility of some of our satellites enables us to meet customer demand and respond to changing market conditions. As of December 31, 2009 our in-orbit fleet of satellites had 380 and 375 36-MHz equivalent transponders available for transmitting in the C-band and the Ku-band, respectively. These totals measure transponders on station-kept satellites. The average system fill factor for our satellites, which represents the percentage of our total available transponder capacity that is in use or that is reserved at a given time (including guaranteed reservations for service), was 85.1% as of December 31, 2009. The design life of a satellite is the length of time that the satellites hardware is designed by the manufacturer to remain operational under normal operating conditions. In contrast, a satellites orbital maneuver life is the length of time the satellite has enough fuel to remain operational. A satellites service life is based upon fuel levels and other considerations, including power. Satellites launched in the recent past are generally expected to remain in service for the lesser of maneuver life or 16 years. Satellites typically have enough fuel to maintain between 16 and 18 years of station-kept operations. The average remaining service life of our satellites was approximately 8.3 years as of December 31, 2009 weighted on the basis of nominally available capacity for the station-kept satellites we own. Planned Satellites As of December 31, 2009 we had orders for the following two satellites, both of which are replacement satellites. Generally, these satellites are being built over a period of three years. In the following table, a replacement satellite refers to a planned satellite of which certain customers may have the option of continuity of service between the existing satellite operating at the designated role and the planned satellite. Satellite Manufacturer Role Earliest Launch Date Expected Launch Provider IS-19 SS/L Replacement satellite for IS-8 located at 166E. Q1 2012 TBD IS-20 SS/L Replacement satellite for IS-10 and IS-7 co-located at 68.5E. Q1 2012 TBD Future Satellites We would expect to replace other existing satellites, as necessary, with satellites that meet customer needs and that have a compelling economic rationale. We periodically conduct evaluations to determine the current and projected strategic and economic value of our existing and any planned satellites and to guide us in redeploying satellite resources as appropriate. Network Operations and Current Ground Facilities We control and operate each of our satellites and manage the communications services for which each satellite is used from the time of its initial deployment through the end of its operational life, and we believe that our technical skill in performing these critical operations differentiates us from our competition. We provide 14 Table of Contents most of these services from our satellite operations centers in Washington, D.C. and Long Beach, California and our customer service center in Ellenwood, Georgia. In the event of a natural disaster or other situation disabling one of the facilities, each satellite operations center has the functional ability to provide instantaneous restoration of services on behalf of the other, demonstrating the efficiency and effectiveness of our network. Utilizing state-of-the-art satellite command and control hardware and software, our satellite operations centers analyze telemetry from our satellites in order to monitor their status and track their location. Our satellite operations centers use a network of ground facilities to perform their functions. This network includes 17 earth stations (TT&C stations) that provide tracking, telemetry and control (TT&C) services for our satellites and various other earth stations worldwide. Through our ground facilities, we constantly monitor signal quality, protect bandwidth from piracy or other interference and maintain customer installed equipment. Our customer service center located in Ellenwood, Georgia includes a specialized video operations center, data operations center, and rapid access center. This facility is responsible for managing the communications services that we provide to our customers and is the first point of contact for customers needing assistance in using our network. Our combined company also maintains a back-up operations facility and data center a relatively short distance from our Washington, D.C. facility in Hagerstown, Maryland. This facility provides back-up emergency operational services in the event that our Ellenwood, Georgia customer service center experiences an interruption. We have invested heavily in our fully integrated terrestrial network which complements our satellite network. Our network includes teleport, leased fiber and network performance monitoring systems and enables us to provide end-to-end managed solutions to our customers. In addition to leased fiber connecting high-density routes, our ground network also features strategically located points of presence, which are drop-off points for our customers traffic that are close to major interconnection hubs for telecommunications applications, video transmissions and trunking to the Internet backbone. We are enhancing our terrestrial network to an all IP network environment that will improve our ground support of high bandwidth applications such as HD video. We believe the CISCO-based network architecture will effectively allow us to converge our media and network services terrestrial network infrastructures, resulting in reduced costs, and will provide opportunities for generating additional revenue from existing and new customers by bundling combinations of media and network services products that can be offered through a single access circuit into our network. Capacity Sparing and Backup and General Satellite Risk Management As part of our satellite risk management, we continually evaluate, and design plans to mitigate, the areas of greatest risk within our fleet, especially for those satellites with known technical risks. We believe that the availability of spare transponder services capacity, together with the overlapping coverage areas of our combined companys fleet of satellites and flexible satellite design features described in Our NetworkSatellite Systems above, are important aspects of our ability to provide reliable service to our customers. In addition, these factors could help us to mitigate the financial impact to our operations attributable to the occurrence of a major satellite anomaly, including the loss of a satellite. Although we do not maintain backup for all of our transponder services operating capacity, we maintain some form of backup capacity for each satellite designated as being in primary operating service. Our restoration backup capacity may include any one or more of the following: designated reserve transponders on the satellite or other on-board backup systems or designed-in redundancies, an in-orbit spare satellite, or interim restoration capacity on other satellites. In addition, we provide some capacity on a preemptible basis and could preempt the use of this capacity to provide backup capacity in the event of a loss of a satellite. 15 Table of Contents We typically obtain launch insurance for our satellites at the time of launch and will decide whether or not to obtain such insurance taking into consideration launch insurance rates, terms of available coverage and alternative risk management strategies, including the availability of backup satellites and transponders in the event of a launch failure. Launch insurance coverage is typically in an amount equal to the fully capitalized cost of the satellite, which generally includes the construction costs, the portion of the insurance premium related to launch, the cost of the launch services and capitalized interest (but may exclude any unpaid incentive payments to the manufacturer). Three of the satellites in our fleet are covered by in-orbit insurance. In-orbit insurance coverage may initially be for an amount comparable to launch insurance levels, generally decreases over time and is typically based on the declining book value of the satellite. We do not currently insure against lost revenue in the event of a total or partial loss of a satellite. One of the three insured satellites, Galaxy 13/Horizons-1, was covered by an insurance policy with substantial exclusions or exceptions to coverage for failures of specific components identified by the underwriters as at risk for possible failure, primarily related to Xenon-Ion Propulsion System (XIPS) related anomalies (Significant Exclusion Policies). The Significant Exclusion Policies reduce the probability of an insurance recovery in the event of a loss on this satellite. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Channels Intelsats tagline, Closer, by far, describes the close working relationship we strive to build with our customers. The Intelsat subsidiary, Intelsat Global Sales & Marketing Ltd. (Intelsat Global Sales), located in London, England, is our global sales and marketing headquarters. In addition, Intelsat has established local sales and marketing support offices in the following locations around the world: Australia Japan Brazil Mexico China Singapore France South Africa Germany United Arab Emirates India United States By establishing local offices closer to our customers and staffing those offices with experienced personnel, we believe that we are able to provide flexible and responsive service and technical support to our customers. Our sales and marketing organization reflects our corporate focus on our three principal customer sets of network services, media and government. Our sales team includes technical marketing and sales engineering application expertise and a sales approach focused on creating integrated solutions for our customers communications requirements. We use a range of direct and wholesale distribution methods to sell our services, depending upon the region, applicable regulatory requirements and customer application. Satellite Health and Technology Our satellite fleet is diversified by manufacturer and satellite type, and as a result, our fleet is generally healthy, with 99.9994% availability of station-kept satellite capacity during the year ended December 31, 2009. We have experienced some technical problems with our current fleet but have been able to minimize the impact of these problems on our customers, our operations and our business in recent years. Many of these problems 16 Table of Contents have been component failures and anomalies that have had little long-term impact to date on the overall transponder availability in our satellite fleet. All of our satellites have been designed to accommodate an anticipated rate of equipment failures with adequate redundancy to meet or exceed their orbital design lives, and to date, this redundancy design scheme has proven effective. After each anomaly we have generally restored services for our customers on the affected satellite, provided alternative capacity on other satellites in our fleet, or provided capacity that we purchased from other satellite operators. We have identified three types of common anomalies among the satellite models in our fleet, which have had an operational impact in the past and could, if they materialize, have an impact in the future. These are: failure of the on-board SCP in Boeing 601 (BSS 601) satellites; failure of the on-board XIPS used to maintain the in-orbit position of Boeing 601 High Power Series (BSS 601 HP) satellites; and accelerated solar array degradation in early Boeing 702 (BSS 702) satellites. SCP Failures. Many of our satellites use an on-board SCP to provide automatic on-board control of many operational functions. SCPs are a critical component in the operation of such satellites. Each such satellite has a backup SCP, which is available in the event of a failure of the primary SCP. Certain BSS 601 satellites have experienced SCP failures. The risk of SCP failure appears to decline as these satellites age. As of December 31, 2009, we operated four BSS 601 satellites: HGS-3, which is utilized by a third-party, IS-2, IS-3R and IS-4, which had previously experienced primary SCP failure and was operating on its backup SCP. These satellites have been identified as having heightened susceptibility to the SCP problem. On February 1, 2010, the backup SCP on IS-4 failed, resulting in a loss of the spacecraft. IS-4 carried commercial traffic and operated in a secondary role. Its failure did not cause a significant interruption of our business or require replacement of a satellite. IS-2 and IS-3R have been in continuous operation since 1994 and 1996, respectively. Both primary and backup SCPs on these satellites are monitored regularly and remain fully functional. Accordingly, we believe it is unlikely that additional SCP failures will occur; however, should they occur, we do not anticipate an interruption in business or early replacement of these satellites as a result. BSS 601 HP XIPS. The BSS 601 HP satellite uses XIPS as its primary propulsion system. There are two separate XIPS on each BSS 601 HP, each one of which is capable of maintaining the satellite in its orbital position. The satellite also has a completely independent bi-propellant propulsion system as a backup to the XIPS. As a result, the failure of a XIPS on a BSS 601 HP typically would have no effect on the satellites performance or its operating life. However, the failure of both XIPS would require the use of the backup bi-propellant propulsion system, which could result in a shorter operating life for the satellite depending on the amount of bi-propellant fuel remaining. XIPS failures do not typically result in a catastrophic failure of the satellite or affect the communications capability of the satellite. As of December 31, 2009, we operated four BSS 601 HP satellites, IS-5, IS-9, 1S-10 and Galaxy 13/Horizons-1. IS-5 and Galaxy 13/Horizons-1 continue to have both XIPS available as their primary propulsion system. IS-9 and IS-10 have experienced the failure of both XIPS and are operating on their backup bi-propellant systems. These two satellites are expected to be replaced by 2012. Our BSS 601 HP satellites had available bi-propellant fuel for a range of approximately two and a half to eight years from December 31, 2009. No assurance can be given that we will not have further XIPS failures that result in shortened satellite lives. We have decommissioned three satellites that had experienced failure of both XIPS. IS-6B was replaced by IS-11 during the first quarter of 2008, Galaxy 10R was replaced by Galaxy 18 during the second quarter of 2008, and Galaxy 4R was decommissioned in March 2009. BSS 702 Solar Arrays. All of our satellites have solar arrays that power their operating systems and transponders and recharge the batteries used when solar power is not available. Solar array performance typically degrades over time in a predictable manner. Additional power margins and other operational flexibility are designed into satellites to allow for such degradation without loss of performance or operating life. Certain 17 Table of Contents BSS 702 satellites have experienced greater than anticipated degradation of their solar arrays resulting from the design of the solar arrays. Such degradation, if continued, results in a shortened operating life of a satellite or the need to reduce the use of the communications payload. As of December 31, 2009, we operated three BSS 702 satellites, two of which are affected by accelerated solar array degradation, Galaxy 11 and IS-1R. Service to customers has not been affected, and we expect that both of these satellites will continue to serve customers until we replace or supplement them with new satellites. Along with the manufacturer, we continually monitor the problem to determine its cause and its expected effect. Due to this continued degradation, Galaxy 11s estimated end of service life is April 2015 and IS-1Rs estimated end of service life is February 2016. Both satellites are currently operating in secondary roles. The third BSS 702 satellite that we operated as of December 31, 2009, Galaxy 3C, was launched after the solar array anomaly was identified, and it has a substantially different solar array design intended to eliminate the problem. This satellite has been in service since September 2002 and has not experienced similar degradation problems. On November 28, 2004, Intelsats Galaxy 27 satellite experienced a sudden anomaly in its north electrical distribution system which resulted in the loss of control of the satellite and the interruption of customer services on the satellite. Galaxy 27 is a FS 1300 series satellite manufactured by SS/L. Intelsats engineers were able to regain command and control of Galaxy 27, and it was placed back in service, with reduced payload capacity, following operational testing. Intelsat has determined that the north electrical distribution system on Galaxy 27 and the communications capacity associated with it are not operational, and the satellite has lost redundancy in nearly all of its components. As a result, Galaxy 27 faces an increased risk of loss in the future. As of December 31, 2009, a substantial subset of Galaxy 27s transponders, which are all powered by the south electrical distribution system, have been tested, are performing normally and are available for service to Intelsats customers. Some of these transponders are currently being used by Intelsats customers. On June 29, 2008, Intelsats Galaxy 26 satellite experienced a sudden and unexpected electrical distribution anomaly causing the loss of a substantial portion of the satellite power generating capability and resulting in the interruption of some of the customer services on the satellite. Galaxy 26 is also a FS 1300 series satellite. Certain transponders continue to operate normally. However, the anomaly resulted in a reduction to the estimated remaining useful life of the satellite. With respect to both the Galaxy 27 and Galaxy 26 anomalies, the failure review boards that Intelsat established with SS/L identified the likely root cause of the anomalies as a design flaw which is affected by a number of parameters and in some extreme cases can result in an electrical system anomaly. The design flaw also exists on our IS-8 satellite. This satellite has been in service since November 1998 and has not experienced an electrical system anomaly. Along with the manufacturer, we continually monitor this problem and we have ordered a replacement for IS-8 expected to be launched in 2012. Competition We compete in the communications market for the provision of video, data and voice connectivity worldwide. Communications services are provided using various communications technologies, including satellite networks, which provide services as a substitute for, or as a complement to, the capabilities of terrestrial networks. SeeThe FSS Sector above for a description of the FSS sector generally and the advantages of satellite communications. Our combined company is a satellite operator that operates worldwide. Our competition includes providers of fixed satellite services of varying size. We also face significant competition from suppliers of terrestrial communications capacity. We compete with other satellite operators for both point-to-multipoint and point-to-point services. We compete with fiber optic cable operators principally for point-to-point services. We also face competition from resellers of FSS and fiber capacity. Resellers purchase FSS or fiber capacity from current or future providers and then resell the capacity to their customers. Capacity for resale is readily available because resellers can typically procure capacity on short notice, given that FSS and fiber capacity is available. 18 Table of Contents Regulation As an operator of privately owned global satellite systems, we are subject to U.S. government regulation, regulation by foreign national telecommunications authorities and the ITU frequency coordination process and regulations. U.S. Government Regulation FCC Regulation . Almost all of the satellites in our current constellation are licensed and regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC). We have final or temporary FCC authorization for all of our U.S.-licensed operating satellites. Satellite licenses typically have a fifteen-year term. At the end of a license term, we can request special temporary authorization or a license modification to continue operating a satellite. In addition, our FCC satellite licenses which relate to use of those orbital locations and associated frequencies that were transferred to the United States at the time of the Intelsat privatization in July 2001 are conditioned on Intelsat remaining a signatory to the Public Services Agreement with the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization. Furthermore, any transfer of these licenses by us to a third party or a successor-in-interest is only permitted if such third party or successor-in-interest has undertaken to perform our obligations under the Public Services Agreement. Changes to our satellite system generally require prior FCC approval. From time to time, we have pending applications for permanent or temporary changes in orbital locations, frequencies and technical design. From time to time, we also file applications for replacement or additional satellites. Replacement satellite applications are eligible for streamlined processing if they are unopposed and propose technical characteristics consistent with those of the satellite that is being replaced. In the case of additional FSS geostationary satellites, the FCC processes requests for new orbital locations or frequencies on a first come, first served basis and requires licensees to post a $3.0 million bond and to comply with a schedule of progress milestones, establishing deadlines to sign a satellite construction contract; complete critical design review; begin spacecraft construction; and launch and operate the satellite. Upon completion of each milestone, the amount of the bond is reduced proportionately. A satellite licensee not satisfying a milestone will lose its license and must forfeit the remaining amount on its bond absent circumstances warranting a milestone extension under the FCCs rules and policies. We have subsidiaries that hold other FCC licenses, including earth station licenses associated with technical facilities located in several states and in Washington, D.C. We must pay FCC filing fees in connection with our space station and earth station applications, and we must also pay annual regulatory fees to the FCC. Violations of the FCCs rules can result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations or the denial of applications for new authorizations or the renewal of existing authorizations. We are not regulated as a common carrier for most of our activities, therefore we are not subject to rate regulation or the obligation not to discriminate among customers and we operate most of our activities with minimal governmental scrutiny of our business decisions. One of our combined companys subsidiaries is regulated as a common carrier. Common carriers are subject to FCC requirements, which include: traffic and revenue reports, international circuit status reports, international interconnected private line reports, notification and approval for foreign carrier affiliations, filing of contracts with international carriers, annual financial reports, equal employment opportunity reports, assistance for law enforcement and maintenance of customer billing records for 18 months. The Intelsat common carrier subsidiary currently qualifies for exemptions from several of these reporting requirements. U.S. Export Control Requirements and Sanctions Regulation . We must comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations, specifically the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Export Administration Regulations and the trade sanctions laws and regulations in the operation of our business. The export of satellites, satellite hardware, defense services and technical information relating to satellites to non-U.S. satellite manufacturing firms, launch services providers, insurers, customers, employees and other non-U.S. persons is regulated by the U.S. Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, 19 Table of Contents or DDTC, under the ITAR. Certain of our contracts for the manufacture, launch, operation and insurance of our satellites involve the export to non-U.S. persons of technical data or hardware regulated by the ITAR. We have obtained all of the specific DDTC authorizations currently needed in order to fulfill our obligations under contracts with non-U.S. entities, and we believe that the terms of these licenses are sufficient given the scope and duration of the contracts to which they pertain. Many of our employees are non-U.S. nationals. We have obtained a license from the DDTC to allow certain of our non-U.S. national employees access to our technical information that is controlled under the ITAR. The U.S. Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security also regulates some of our activities under the Export Administration Regulations. The Bureau regulates our export of equipment to earth stations in our ground network located outside of the United States. It is our practice to obtain all licenses necessary for the furnishing of original or spare equipment for the operation of our TT&C stations in a timely manner in order to facilitate the shipment of this equipment when needed. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Where required, the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control has granted us the authorizations needed to provide satellite capacity and related administrative services to U.S.-sanctioned countries. U.S. Department of Defense Security Clearances . To participate in classified U.S. government programs, Intelsat sought and obtained security clearances for one of its subsidiaries from the U.S. Department of Defense as required under the national security laws and regulations of the United States by entering into a proxy agreement with the U.S. government. Because Intelsat S.A. is a Luxembourg company, and prior to the Migration was a Bermuda company, with significant non-U.S. investment and employees, it sought and obtained Department of Defense approval of various mechanisms to mitigate the impact on the required security clearances. If Intelsat does not maintain the security clearances that it has obtained from the U.S. Department of Defense, Intelsat will not be able to perform its obligations under any classified U.S. government contracts to which its subsidiary is a party, the U.S. government would have the right to terminate its contracts requiring access to classified information and Intelsat will not be able to enter into new classified contracts. Further, if Intelsat materially violates the terms of the proxy agreement, the subsidiary holding the security clearances may be suspended or debarred from performing any government contracts, whether classified or unclassified. Regulation by Foreign National Telecommunications Authorities German Regulation . We hold an authorization to operate the IS-12 satellite at one orbital location. Japan Regulation . We and JSAT are the sole members of Horizons, and in 2002 the Japanese telecommunications ministry authorized Horizons to operate the Ku-band payload on the Galaxy 13/Horizons-1 satellite. In 2003, the FCC added this Ku-band payload to its Permitted Space Station List, enabling Horizons to use the payload to provide non-DTH services in the United States, and in May 2004, the FCC expanded this authority to include one-way DTH services. We are the exclusive owner of the C-band payload on Galaxy 13/Horizons-1, which the FCC has licensed us to operate. Other National Telecommunications Authorities . As a provider of satellite capacity, we are also subject to the national communications and broadcasting laws and regulations of many foreign countries in which we operate. Most countries require us to obtain a license or other form of written authorization from the regulator prior to offering service. We have obtained or are obtaining these licenses or written authorizations in all countries in which they are required. Most countries allow authorized telecommunications providers to own their own transmission facilities and to purchase satellite capacity without restriction, facilitating customer access to our services. Other countries maintain strict monopoly regimes or otherwise regulate the provision of our services. In order to provide services in these countries, we may need to negotiate an operating agreement with a monopoly entity that covers the types of services to be offered by each party, the contractual terms for service 20 Table of Contents and each partys rates. As we have developed our ground network and expanded our service offerings, we have been required to obtain additional licenses and authorizations. To date, we believe that we have identified and complied with all of the regulatory requirements applicable to us in connection with our ground network and expanded services. The International Telecommunication Union Frequency Coordination Process and Regulation Our use of orbital locations is subject to the frequency coordination and recording process of the ITU. In order to protect satellite systems from harmful radio frequency interference from other satellite systems, the ITU maintains a Master International Frequency Register of radio frequency assignments and their associated orbital locations. Each ITU notifying administration is required by treaty to give notice of, coordinate and record its proposed use of radio frequency assignments and associated orbital locations with the ITUs Radiocommunication Bureau. When the coordination process is completed, the ITU formally notifies all proposed users of frequencies and orbital locations in order to protect the recorded assignments associated with a given orbital location from subsequent or nonconforming interfering uses by Member States of the ITU. The ITUs Radio Regulations do not contain mandatory dispute resolution or enforcement mechanisms. The Radio Regulations arbitration procedure is voluntary and neither the ITU specifically, nor international law generally, provides clear remedies if this voluntary process fails. Only nations have full standing as ITU members. Therefore, we must rely on governments to represent our interests before the ITU, including obtaining new rights to use orbital locations and resolving disputes relating to the ITUs regulations. Employees As of December 31, 2009, our combined company had 1,111 full-time regular employees. These employees consisted of: 523 employees in engineering, operations and related information systems; 280 employees in finance, legal, corporate information systems and other administrative functions; 217 employees in sales, marketing and strategy; and 91 employees in support of government sales and marketing. As of December 31, 2009, 991 of these employees were located in the United States, and the remainder of our employees were in various other locations around the world. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. None of our employees is represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination. As an owner or operator of property and in connection with current and historical operations at some of our sites, we could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, sanctions and third-party claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. For instance, some of our operations require continuous power supply, and, as a result, current and past operations at our teleport and other technical facilities include fuel storage and batteries for back-up power generators. We believe, however, that our operations are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 21 Table of Contents Our History Prior to the consummation of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions (as defined below), we were the product of the May 1997 merger of PanAmSat International and the Galaxy Satellite Services business of Hughes Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of The DIRECTV Group, into a new publicly held company, which retained the PanAmSat name. The related financing transactions and the related contractual arrangements entered into with The DIRECTV Group are collectively referred to as the Recapitalization. Prior to the Recapitalization in August 2004, The DIRECTV Group beneficially owned approximately 80.4% of our outstanding common stock. The DIRECTV Group was owned by Fox Entertainment Group, Inc., an 82% owned subsidiary of News Corporation. Following the Recapitalization, we were owned by entities affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Co., L.P., The Carlyle Group, Providence Equity Partners, Inc. and certain members of management and of our board of directors. On September 22, 2004, PanAmSat Holdco was formed by the then existing stockholders of the Company. On October 8, 2004, all of the Companys outstanding common stock held by its then existing stockholders was contributed to PanAmSat Holdco in exchange for an equal number of shares of PanAmSat Holdco common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Contribution). As a result of and immediately following the Contribution, the Companys then existing stockholders owned PanAmSat Holdco in equal proportion to their prior ownership interest in the Company, and we became a wholly-owned subsidiary of PanAmSat Holdco. The Contribution was accounted for as a recapitalization because neither a change in control nor a business combination occurred and PanAmSat Holdco was not a substantive operating entity. Accordingly, there was no change in the basis of the assets and liabilities of Intelsat Corp. Therefore, all operations of the Company prior to the Contribution are reflected herein at their historical amounts. The Intelsat Acquisition Transactions On August 28, 2005, Intelsat Bermuda, PanAmSat Holdco and Proton Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intelsat Bermuda, signed a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which Intelsat Bermuda acquired all of the outstanding equity interests in PanAmSat Holdco for $25.00 per common share in cash, or approximately $3.2 billion in the aggregate (plus approximately $0.00927 per share as the pro rata share of undeclared regular quarterly dividends). Upon completion of the transactions on July 3, 2006, PanAmSat Holdco and Intelsat Sub Holdco became separate direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Intelsat Bermuda. As part of this transaction, approximately $3.2 billion in existing debt of PanAmSat Holdco and its subsidiaries was either refinanced or remained outstanding. The merger and the related transactions are referred to collectively as the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions. Concurrently with the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions, Intelsat General, the entity that operates our government services business, purchased the government services business of PanAmSat. The New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions On February 4, 2008, Serafina completed its acquisition of 100% of the equity ownership of Intelsat Holdings (the New Sponsors Acquisition) for total cash consideration of approximately $5.0 billion, pursuant to a share purchase agreement among Serafina, Intelsat Holdings, certain shareholders of Intelsat Holdings and Serafina Holdings (the BC Share Purchase Agreement). Serafina Holdings is an entity formed by funds controlled by BC Partners Holdings Limited (the BCEC Funds) and certain other investors. Subsequent to the execution of the BC Share Purchase Agreement, two investment funds controlled by Silver Lake Partners, L.P. (Silver Lake Partners) and other equity investors joined the BCEC Funds as the equity sponsors of Serafina Holdings. We refer to the BCEC Funds, the Silver Lake Partners funds and the other equity sponsors collectively as the New Sponsors. As a result of completion of the New Sponsors Acquisition and related financing transactions, we and our subsidiaries assumed aggregate net incremental debt of approximately $3.7 billion. See Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsImpact of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. 22 Table of Contents The Luxembourg Migration On December 15, 2009, Intelsat, Ltd. and certain of its parent holding companies and subsidiaries migrated their jurisdiction of organization from Bermuda to Luxembourg (the Migration). As a result of the Migration, Intelsats headquarters are located in Luxembourg. Each company that migrated has continued its corporate and legal personality in Luxembourg. Subsequent to the Migration, Intelsat Global, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Global S.A., Intelsat Global Subsidiary, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Global Subsidiary S.A., Intelsat Holdings, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Holdings S.A., Intelsat, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat S.A., Intelsat (Bermuda), Ltd. is now known as Intelsat (Luxembourg) S.A., Intelsat Jackson Holdings, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Jackson Holdings S.A., Intelsat Intermediate Holding Company, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Intermediate Holding Company S.A. and Intelsat Subsidiary Holding Company, Ltd. is now known as Intelsat Subsidiary Holding Company S.A. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We are subject to significant competition both within the FSS sector and from other providers of communications capacity, such as fiber optic cable capacity. Competition from other telecommunications providers could have a material adverse effect on our business and could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and expanding our operations as planned. We face significant competition in the FSS sector in different regions around the world. We compete against other satellite operators and against suppliers of ground-based communications capacity. The increasing availability of satellite capacity and capacity from other forms of communications technology has historically created an excess supply of telecommunications capacity in certain regions from time to time. Competition in the FSS sector lowers prices, which can reduce our operating margins and the cash available to fund our operations and service our debt obligations. In addition, there has been a trend toward consolidation of major FSS providers as customers increasingly demand more robust distribution platforms with network redundancies and worldwide reach, and we expect to face increased competition as a result of this trend. Our direct competitors are likely to continue developing and launching satellites with greater power and more transponders, which may create satellite capacity at lower costs. In order to compete effectively, we may have to invest in similar technology. In addition, we believe that there are many companies that are seeking ways to improve the ability of existing land-based infrastructure, such as fiber optic cable, to transmit signals. Any significant improvement or increase in the amount of land-based capacity, particularly with respect to the existing fiber optic cable infrastructure and point-to-point applications, may cause our video services customers to shift their transmissions to land-based capacity or make it more difficult for us to obtain new customers. If fiber optic cable networks or other ground-based high-capacity transmission systems are available to service a particular point, that capacity, when available, is generally less expensive than satellite capacity. As land-based telecommunications services expand, demand for some satellite-based services may be reduced. Failure to compete effectively with other FSS operators and to adapt to new competition and new technologies or failure to implement our business strategy while maintaining our existing business would result in a loss of revenue and a decline in profitability, a decrease in the value of our business and a downgrade of our credit ratings, which would restrict our access to the capital markets. 23 Table of Contents The market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink and therefore we may not be able to attract new customers, retain our existing customers or implement our strategies to grow our business. In addition, pricing pressures may have an adverse impact on FSS sector revenue. The FSS sector, as a whole, is currently expected to experience moderate growth over the next few years. However, the market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink. Competing technologies, such as fiber optic cable, are continuing to adversely affect the point-to-point segment of the FSS sector. In the point-to-multipoint segment, the global economic downturn, the transition of video traffic from analog to digital and continuing improvements in compression technology have negatively impacted demand for certain fixed satellite services. Developments that we expect to support the growth of the satellite services industry, such as continued growth in data traffic and the proliferation of HDTV and niche programming, may fail to materialize or may not occur in the manner or to the extent we anticipate. Any of these industry dynamics could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Because the market for fixed satellite services may not grow or may shrink, we may not be able to attract customers for the managed services that we are providing as part of our strategy to sustain our business. Reduced growth in the FSS sector may also adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers. A shrinking market could reduce the number and value of our customer contracts and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, there could be a substantial negative impact on our credit ratings and our ability to access the capital markets. The FSS sector has in the past decade experienced periods of pricing pressures that have resulted in reduced revenues of FSS operators. If similar pricing pressures were to occur in the future, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and financial condition. Our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. We currently carry in-orbit insurance only with respect to a small portion of our satellite fleet. As our satellite insurance policies expire, we may elect to reduce or eliminate insurance coverage relating to certain of our satellites to the extent permitted by our debt agreements if, in our view, exclusions make such policies ineffective or the costs of coverage make such insurance impractical and we believe that we can more reasonably protect our business through the use of in-orbit spare satellites, backup transponders and self-insurance. A partial or complete failure of a revenue-producing satellite, whether insured or not, could require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, an acceleration of planned capital expenditures, interruptions in service, a reduction in contracted backlog and lost revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also maintain third-party liability insurance on certain of our satellites. This insurance, however, may not be adequate or available to cover all third-party liability damages that may be caused by any of our satellites, and we may not in the future be able to renew our third-party liability coverage on reasonable terms and conditions, if at all. We have several large customers and the loss of, or default by, any one of them could materially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business. We rely on a limited number of customers to provide a substantial portion of our revenue and contracted backlog. For the predecessor year ended December 31, 2007, the combined year ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2009, our ten largest third-party customers and their affiliates represented approximately 49%, 44% and 43%, respectively, of our revenue from transponder services, satellite-related services and other. The loss of, or default by, one or more of these customers could significantly affect our revenue and operating margins. Some customers have in the past defaulted and, although we monitor our larger customers financial performance and seek deposits, guarantees and other methods of protection against default where possible, our 24 Table of Contents customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Defaults by any of our larger customers or by a group of smaller customers who, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue could adversely affect our revenue, operating margins and cash flows. If our backlog is reduced due to the financial difficulties of our customers, our revenue and operating margins would be further negatively impacted. The recent global recession may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The recent global recession, as well as a slow recovery period, may lead to lower demand for our services, increased incidences of our customers inability to pay for our services, or the insolvency of our customers. In addition, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses profitably, they may raise prices, lower production levels or cease operations. Any of these events may negatively impact our sales, revenue generation and margins, and consequently adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.3 billion of total third-party debt and we had $152.2 million (net of standby letters of credit) of availability under the revolving loan facility of our senior secured credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy obligations with respect to indebtedness, including through refinancing, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing our notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of available cash flow to pay principal and interest on debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limit flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; limit our ability to engage in strategic transactions or implement our respective business strategies; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and place us at a disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt. Any of the factors listed above could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates rise because certain portions of our debt bear interest at floating rates. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur new indebtedness, the related risks, including those described above, could intensify. 25 Table of Contents The terms of our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other outstanding indebtedness contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants imposing significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. Our senior secured credit facility includes a financial covenant that requires the applicable borrower not to exceed a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to use a portion of the proceeds of certain asset sales in excess of a specified amount that are not reinvested in our business to repay indebtedness under such facilities. The credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our existing notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock; pay dividends (including to fund cash interest payments at different entity levels), or make redemptions, repurchases or distributions, with respect to ordinary shares or capital stock; create or incur certain liens; make certain loans or investments; engage in mergers, acquisitions, amalgamations, asset sales and sale and leaseback transactions; and engage in transactions with affiliates. These covenants are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility could result in a default under the applicable credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all available cash to repay these borrowings. If this occurred under our senior secured credit facility, this would result in an event of default under our existing notes. Those lenders under the senior secured credit facility will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to fund further borrowings. If we were unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt owed to them. If the repayment of the debt under our senior secured credit facility were to be accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay such debt in full or to repay our existing notes and our other existing debt. Our business is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise adequate capital to finance our business strategies, or we may be able to do so only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate our business. Implementation of our business strategy requires a substantial outlay of capital. As we pursue our business strategies and seek to respond to opportunities and trends in our industry, our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy our capital requirements in the future. We currently expect that the majority of our liquidity requirements in 2010 will be satisfied by cash on hand, cash generated from our operations, intercompany borrowings and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. However, if we determine we need to obtain additional funds through external financing and are unable to do so, we may be prevented from fully implementing our business strategy. 26 Table of Contents The availability and cost to us of external financing depend on a number of factors, including general market conditions, our financial performance and our credit rating. Both our credit rating and our ability to obtain financing generally may be influenced by the supply and demand characteristics of the telecommunications sector in general and of the FSS sector in particular. Declines in our expected future revenue under contracts with customers and challenging business conditions faced by our customers are among factors that may adversely affect our credit. Other factors that could impact our credit include the amount of debt in our current capital structure, activities associated with our strategic initiatives, our expected future cash flows and the capital expenditures required to execute our business strategy. The overall impact on our financial condition of any transaction that we pursue may be negative or may be negatively perceived by the financial markets and ratings agencies and may result in adverse rating agency actions with respect to our credit rating. A disruption in the capital markets, a deterioration in our financial performance or a credit rating downgrade could limit our ability to obtain financing or could result in any such financing being available only at greater cost or on more restrictive terms than might otherwise be available. Our credit rating was downgraded by Moodys Investor Services Inc. in June 2006 and again in January 2008 and by Standard & Poors Ratings Group, or S&P, in June 2006, June 2007 and again in February 2008. Our debt agreements also impose restrictions on our operation of our business and could make it more difficult for us to obtain further external financing if required. See The terms of our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing our existing notes and the terms of our other indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty due to the recent global recession, changing or increased regulation or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital. If financial market disruptions intensify it may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or refinance debt when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating other discretionary uses of cash. We are subject to political, economic and other risks due to the international nature of our operations. Our combined company provides communications services in approximately 200 countries and territories. Accordingly, we may be subject to greater risks than other satellite operators as a result of the international nature of our business operations. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we provide service. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Almost all of our customers pay for our services in U.S. dollars, although we are exposed to some risk related to customers who do not pay in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of non-U.S. currencies may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for our non-U.S. customers. In addition, our non-U.S. customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. Our New Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Intelsat Global is controlled by affiliates of the New Sponsors and the funds advised by or associated with the New Sponsors. The New Sponsors, together with certain members of our senior management team and other designated employees, beneficially own substantially all of the equity interests in Intelsat Global, which is the direct parent of Intelsat Global Subsidiary, which is the direct parent of Intelsat Holdings, which is the direct parent of Intelsat S.A. The New Sponsors also own a portion of the outstanding notes issued by Intelsat Luxembourg. The New Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of shareholders. For example, the New Sponsors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness. Additionally, the New Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold 27 Table of Contents interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The New Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the New Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the equity of Intelsat Global, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. We may not be able to complete strategic transactions, which may prevent us from implementing strategies to grow our business. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic transactions that can, among other things, broaden our customer base, provide enhanced geographic presence and provide complementary technical and commercial capabilities. Successful completion of any strategic transaction we identify depends on a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, we may need to finance any strategic transaction that we identify, and may not be able to obtain the necessary financing on satisfactory terms and within the timeframe that would permit a transaction to proceed. We may also fail to discover liabilities of a business or operating or other problems prior to completing a transaction. We could experience adverse accounting and financial consequences, such as the need to make large provisions against the acquired assets or to write down the acquired assets. We might also experience a dilutive effect on our earnings. In addition, depending on how any such transaction is structured, there may be an adverse impact on our capital structure. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions, and such costs may exceed the returns that we realize from a given transaction. Moreover, these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of a transaction. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to complete strategic transactions or to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our business. Any strategic transactions that we do complete may not promote our business strategy, may negatively affect the value of our business or may adversely affect our prospects for long-term growth. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We may experience in-orbit satellite failures or degradations in performance that could impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could lead to lost revenue, an increase in our cash operating expenses, lower operating income or lost backlog. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, that have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of: the satellite manufacturers error, whether due to the use of new and largely unproven technology or due to a design, manufacturing or assembly defect that was not discovered before launch; problems with the power systems of the satellites, including: circuit failures or other array degradation causing reductions in the power output of the solar arrays on the satellites, which could require us to forego the use of some transponders initially and to turn off additional transponders in later years; and/or failure of the cells within the batteries, whose sole purpose is to power the payload and spacecraft operations during the daily eclipse periods which occur for brief periods of time during two 40-day periods around March 21 and September 21 of each year; and problems with the control systems of the satellites, including: failure of the primary and/or backup SCP; and failure of the XIPS used on certain Boeing satellites, which is an electronic propulsion system that maintains the spacecrafts proper in-orbit position; and/or 28 Table of Contents general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment, such as premature component failure or wear out. We have experienced anomalies in each of the categories described above. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of these anomalies in new satellites and provide for on-satellite backups for certain critical components to minimize or eliminate service disruptions in the event of failure, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. These anomalies can manifest themselves in scale from minor reductions of equipment redundancy to marginal reductions in capacity to complete satellite failure. Some of our satellites have experienced significant anomalies in the past and some have components that are now known to be susceptible to similar significant anomalies. Each of these is discussed in Item 1BusinessSatellite Health and Technology. An on-satellite backup for certain components may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations, our revenues, our relationship with our current customers and our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly and the availability of on-satellite backups. Anomalies and our estimate of their future effect may also cause a reduction of the expected service life of a satellite and contracted backlog. Anomalies may also cause a reduction of the revenue generated by that satellite or the recognition of an impairment loss. Finally, the occurrence of anomalies may adversely affect our ability to insure our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. While some anomalies are covered by insurance policies, others are not or may not be covered. SeeRisk Factors Relating to Our BusinessOur financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to suffer a satellite loss that is not adequately covered by insurance. Many of the technical problems we have experienced with our current combined fleet have been component failures and anomalies. Intelsats Galaxy 26 and Galaxy 27 satellites experienced sudden anomalies in their electrical distribution systems that resulted in the loss of control of the satellites and the interruption of customer services on the satellites in November 2004 and June 2008, respectively. Intelsat believes the likely root cause of the anomalies is a design flaw that is affected by a number of parameters and in some extreme cases can result in an electrical system anomaly. This design flaw also exists on our IS-8 satellite. Three of the BSS 601 satellites that we operated in the past, as well as BSS 601 satellites operated by others, have experienced a failure of the primary and backup SCPs. On January 15, 2006, our Galaxy 3R satellite experienced an anomaly of its back-up SCP and was taken out of service. On February 1, 2010 our IS-4 satellite experienced an anomaly of its backup SCP and was taken out of service. These events did not have a material impact on our operations or financial results. Certain of the BSS 601 HP satellites have experienced various problems associated with their XIPS. We currently operate four satellites of this type, two of which have experienced failures of both XIPS. We may in the future experience similar problems associated with XIPS or other propulsion systems on our satellites. In 2004, based on a review of available data, we reduced our estimate of the service life of one of our BSS 601 HP satellites, IS-9. Two of the three BSS 702 satellites that we operate, as well as BSS 702s of a similar design operated by others, have experienced a progressive degradation of their solar arrays causing a reduction in output power. Along with the manufacturer, we continually monitor the problem to determine its cause and its expected effect. The power reduction may require us to permanently turn off certain transponders on the affected satellites to allow for the continued operation of other transponders, which could result in a loss of revenues, or may result in a reduction of the satellites service life. In 2004, based on a review of available data, we reduced our estimate of the service lives of both satellites due to the continued degradation. 29 Table of Contents We may experience a launch failure or other satellite damage or destruction during launch, which could result in a total or partial satellite loss. A new satellite could also fail to achieve its designated orbital location after launch. Any such loss of a satellite could negatively impact our business plans and could reduce our revenue. Satellites are subject to certain risks related to failed launches. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take 24 months or longer, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our operations and our revenue. In addition, significant delays could give customers who have purchased or reserved capacity on that satellite a right to terminate their service contracts relating to the satellite. We may not be able to accommodate affected customers on other satellites until a replacement satellite is available. A customers termination of its service contracts with us as a result of a launch failure would reduce our contracted backlog. Delay caused by launch failures may also preclude us from pursuing new business opportunities and undermine our ability to implement our business strategy. Launch vehicles may also under-perform, in which case the satellite may still be placed into service by using its onboard propulsion systems to reach the desired orbital location, resulting in a reduction in its service life. In addition, although we have had launch insurance on all of our launches to date, if we were not able to obtain launch insurance on reasonable terms and a launch failure were to occur, we would directly suffer the loss of the cost of the satellite and related costs, which could be more than $250 million. Of the 49 satellites launched by us or our predecessors since 1983, three have resulted in launch failures. In addition, certain launch vehicles that we have used or are scheduled to use have experienced launch failures in the past. Launch failure rates vary according to the launch vehicle used. New or proposed satellites are subject to construction and launch delays, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. The construction and launch of satellites are subject to certain delays. Such delays can result from the delays in the construction of satellites and launch vehicles, the periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, possible delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and launch failures. We have in the past experienced delays in satellite construction and launch which have adversely affected our operations. Future delays may have the same effect. A significant delay in the future delivery of any satellite may also adversely affect our marketing plan for the satellite. If satellite construction schedules are not met, a launch opportunity may not be available at the time a satellite is ready to be launched. Further, any significant delay in the commencement of service of any of our satellites could enable customers who pre-purchased or agreed to utilize transponder capacity on the satellite to terminate their contracts and could affect our plans to replace an in-orbit satellite prior to the end of its service life. The failure to implement our satellite deployment plan on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the launch of a satellite intended to replace an existing satellite that results in the existing satellite reaching its end of life before being replaced could result in loss of business to the extent an in-orbit backup is not available. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in increased costs and delays related to the launch of our new satellites, which would in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. There are a limited number of companies that we are able to use to launch our satellites and a limited number of commercial satellite launch opportunities available in any given time period. Adverse events with respect to our launch service providers, such as satellite launch failures, could result in increased costs or delays in the launch of our satellites. General economic conditions may also affect the ability of launch providers to provide launch services on commercially reasonable terms or to fulfill their obligations in terms of launch dates, pricing, or both. In the event that our launch service providers are unable to fulfill their obligations, we may have difficulty procuring alternative services in a timely manner and may incur significant additional expenses as a result. Any such increased costs and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Risk Factors Relating to Regulation We are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements in each of the countries in which we provide services, and our business is sensitive to regulatory changes in those countries. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and in connection with providing satellite capacity, ground network uplinks, downlinks and other value-added services to our customers, we need to maintain regulatory approvals, and from time to time obtain new regulatory approvals, from various countries. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals can involve significant time and expense. If we cannot obtain or are delayed in obtaining the required regulatory approvals, we may not be able to provide these services to our customers or expand into new services. In addition, the laws and regulations to which we are subject could change at any time, thus making it more difficult for us to obtain new regulatory approvals or causing our existing approvals to be revoked or adversely modified. Because the regulatory schemes vary by country, we may also be subject to regulations of which we are not presently aware and could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our operations in that country. If we cannot comply with the laws and regulations that apply to us, we could lose our revenue from services provided to the countries and territories covered by these laws and regulations and be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. If we do not maintain regulatory authorizations for our existing satellites and associated ground facilities or obtain authorizations for our future satellites and associated ground facilities, we may not be able to operate our existing satellites or expand our operations. Our operation of existing satellites is authorized and regulated by the FCC, the U.K. Office of Communications, the telecommunications licensing authority in Papua New Guinea, the telecommunications ministry of Japan, and the regulatory agency of Germany. If we do not maintain authorizations for our existing satellites, we would not be able to operate the satellites covered by those authorizations, unless we obtained authorization from another licensing jurisdiction. Some of our authorizations provide waivers of technical regulations. If we do not maintain these waivers, we would be subject to operational restrictions or interference that would affect our use of existing satellites. Loss of a satellite authorization could cause us to lose the revenue from services provided by that satellite at a particular orbital location to the extent these services cannot be provided by satellites at other orbital locations. Our launch and operation of planned satellites require additional regulatory authorizations from the FCC or a non-U.S. licensing jurisdiction, some of which we have already obtained. If we do not obtain any required authorizations in the future, we would not be able to operate our planned satellites. If we obtain a required authorization but we do not meet milestones regarding the construction, launch and operation of a satellite by deadlines that may be established in the authorization, we could lose our authorization to operate a satellite using certain frequencies in an orbital location. Any authorizations we obtain may also impose operational restrictions or permit interference that could affect our use of planned satellites. If we do not occupy unused orbital locations by specified deadlines, or do not maintain satellites in orbital locations we currently use, those orbital locations may become available for other satellite operators to use. Our in-orbit satellites do not currently occupy all of the orbital locations for which we have obtained regulatory authorizations. If we are unable to place satellites into currently unused orbital locations by specified deadlines and in a manner that satisfies the ITU or national regulatory requirements, or if we are unable to maintain satellites at the orbital locations that we currently use, we may lose our rights to use these orbital locations and the locations could become available for other satellite operators to use. We cannot operate our satellites without a sufficient number of suitable orbital locations in which to place the satellites. The loss of one or more of our orbital locations could negatively affect our plans and our ability to implement our business strategy. 31 Table of Contents Coordination results may adversely affect our ability to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. We are required to record frequencies and orbital locations used by our satellites with the ITU and to coordinate the use of these frequencies and orbital locations in order to avoid interference to or from other satellites. The results of coordination may adversely affect our use of satellites at particular orbital locations. If we are unable to coordinate our satellites by specified deadlines, we may not be able to use a satellite at a given orbital location for our proposed service or coverage area. The use of our satellites may also be temporarily or permanently adversely affected if the operation of adjacent satellite networks does not conform to coordination agreements resulting in the acceptable interference levels being exceeded (e.g., due to operational errors associated with the transmissions to adjacent satellite networks). Our failure to maintain or obtain authorizations under the U.S. export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export of satellites and technical information related to satellites, earth station equipment and provision of services to certain countries are subject to State Department, Commerce Department and Treasury Department regulations. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the export control laws and regulations of the United States, we may be unable to export technical information or equipment to non-U.S. persons and companies, including to our own non-U.S. employees, as required to fulfill existing contracts. If we do not maintain our existing authorizations or obtain necessary future authorizations under the trade sanctions laws and regulations of the United States, we may not be able to provide satellite capacity and related administrative services to certain countries subject to U.S. sanctions. In addition, because we conduct management activities from Luxembourg, our U.S. suppliers must comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations in connection with their export of satellites and related equipment and technical information to us. Our ability to acquire new satellites, launch new satellites or operate our satellites could also be negatively affected if our suppliers do not obtain required U.S. export authorizations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties We operate as a fully integrated subsidiary of Intelsat. Intelsat owns the two facilities in which most of our operations and employees are located in Washington, D.C. and Ellenwood, Georgia. Intelsat Global Service Corporation owns the Washington, D.C. building where our administrative headquarters and primary satellite operations center are located. The land that underlies this building is leased from the U.S. government pursuant to a lease that expires in 2081. The building has approximately 917,000 gross square feet, of which approximately 546,500 square feet is used for office space and satellite operations facilities. See Item 1BusinessOur NetworkNetwork Operations and Current Ground Facilities for descriptions of these facilities. The building also houses the majority of our sales and marketing support staff and other administrative personnel. Intelsat also leases approximately 28,546 square feet in Bethesda, Maryland where the employees of Intelsat General are located. We also own a facility in Ellenwood, Georgia in which our primary customer service center is located. The facility has approximately 129,000 square feet of office space and operations facilities, which are based in two buildings and multiple antenna shelters on the property. See Item 1BusinessOur NetworkNetwork Operations and Current Ground Facilities for a description of this facility. The backup satellite operations center is located at a facility which Intelsat owns in Long Beach, California, which includes approximately 68,875 square feet for administrative and operational facilities. Intelsats current plan is to lease a significant portion of this facility to third parties. 32 Table of Contents Intelsat uses a worldwide ground network to operate our satellite fleet and to manage the communications services that Intelsat provides to its customers. This network is comprised of 49 owned and leased earth station and teleport facilities around the world, including 21 earth stations that perform TT&C services. The six TT&C earth stations in Intelsats ground network which Intelsat owns are located in Ellenwood, Georgia, in Fillmore, Napa and Riverside, California, in Paumalu, Hawaii and in Fuchsstadt, Germany. Intelsat leases facilities at 15 other locations for satellite operations. Intelsat also contracts with the owners of some of these facilities for the provision of additional services. The locations of other earth stations in our ground network include Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, India, Italy, South Korea, Russia, South Africa, French Polynesia, Taiwan, Uruguay and the United Arab Emirates. Intelsats network also consists of the leased communications links that connect the earth stations to our satellite operations center located at our Washington, D.C. building and to our back-up operations facility. In addition to providing TT&C services for the operation of our satellite fleet, Intelsat owns and leases facilities in order to provide teleport services to our customers. Intelsat owns seven teleports in Riverside, Napa and Fillmore, California, in Ellenwood, Georgia, in Paumalu, Hawaii, in Hagerstown, Maryland and in Fuchsstadt, Germany. Intelsat leases teleport facilities at a number of other U.S. and international locations, including Castle Rock, Colorado, Australia, Cyprus, Hong Kong, Kuwait, South Korea, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Intelsat has established points of presence connected by leased fiber at key traffic exchange points around the world, including Los Angeles, New York, Hong Kong and London. Intelsat leases our facilities at these traffic exchange points. Intelsat has also established video points of presence connected by leased fiber at key video exchange points around the world, including Los Angeles, Denver, New York, Washington, D.C. and London. Intelsat leases our facilities at these video exchange points. Intelsat uses our teleports and points of presence in combination with our satellite network to provide our customers with managed data and video services. Intelsat leases office space in Luxembourg, Hamilton, Bermuda, London, England, and Wilton, Connecticut. Intelsats Luxembourg office serves as the headquarters for Intelsat Global, Intelsat Global Subsidiary, Intelsat Holdings, Intelsat S.A., Intelsat Luxembourg, Intelsat Jackson, Intermediate Holdco and Intelsat Sub Holdco. Prior to the Migration, the headquarters of these companies was located in Bermuda. The lease on Intelsats Bermuda office is set to expire in June 2010. Intelsats London office houses the employees of Intelsat Global Sales & Marketing Ltd., Intelsats sales and marketing subsidiary, and functions as Intelsats global sales headquarters. The Wilton, Connecticut office formerly housed the administrative functions of the prior PanAmSat business. This facility is under a lease set to expire in 2011, and Intelsat subleased this space to third parties beginning in mid-2007, when Intelsat discontinued operations at this facility under our integration plans. Intelsat also leases office space in New York, Florida, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, South Africa and the United Arab Emirates for its local sales and marketing support offices. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business, but management does not believe that the resolution of any pending proceedings would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Item 4. Reserved PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Prior to the completion of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions on July 3, 2006, the common stock of our parent, PanAmSat Holdco, was traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Subsequent to these transactions, there is no market for our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected historical consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Item 7Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our audited consolidated financial statements and their notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The consolidated statement of operations data and consolidated cash flow data for the year ended December 31, 2007, the period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 (predecessor entity), the period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 (successor entity) and the year ended December 31, 2009, and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 have been derived from consolidated financial statements audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. The consolidated statement of operations data and consolidated cash flow data for the year ended December 31, 2005, the period January 1, 2006 to July 1, 2006 (predecessor entity) and the period July 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006 (predecessor entity) and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 have been derived from consolidated financial statements that are not included in this Annual Report. Predecessor Entity Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Year Ended December 31, 2005 January 1 to July 1, 2006 July 1 to December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2007 January 1 to January 31, 2008 February 1 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Revenue: Transponder services, satellite-related services and other $ 847,149 $ 436,864 $ 419,694 $ 825,187 $ 71,026 $ 763,855 $ 850,514 Revenue from affiliates 102,653 215,010 51,021 232,838 277,622 Outright sales and sales-type leases 13,854 5,895 Total revenue 861,003 442,759 522,347 1,040,197 122,047 996,693 1,128,136 Operating expenses: Direct costs of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 143,870 70,977 91,120 148,026 11,152 153,218 172,699 Cost of outright sales and sales-type leases (4,303 ) (1,943 ) Costs from affiliates 31,711 74,104 6,858 94,499 120,257 Selling, general and administrative expenses 74,969 38,604 71,442 123,839 12,117 99,636 119,067 Depreciation and amortization 276,925 138,655 145,329 302,232 26,851 319,412 333,044 Prior sponsor management fees 10,444 Restructuring and transaction costs 4,294 145,186 9,327 8,776 62,675 1,926 Loss on termination of sales-type leases 2,307 Impairment of asset value 256,000 144,100 (Gains) losses on derivative financial instruments (6,611 ) (23,140 ) 11,731 11,699 11,431 83,451 16,241 Total operating expenses 501,895 368,339 360,660 668,676 131,084 1,008,142 905,408 Income (loss) from operations 359,108 74,420 161,687 371,521 (9,037 ) (11,449 ) 222,728 Interest expense, net 261,383 107,601 143,514 257,459 21,224 223,415 186,122 Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt 593 (51 ) Other income (expense), net (2,108 ) 2,031 3,795 169 5,713 4,689 Income (loss) before income taxes 97,725 (35,289 ) 20,204 117,857 (30,092 ) (228,558 ) 41,244 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2,105 8,007 6,112 20,822 (10,702 ) (87,063 ) 27,072 Net income (loss) $ 95,620 $ (43,296 ) $ 14,092 $ 97,035 $ (19,390 ) $ (141,495 ) $ 14,172 34 Table of Contents Predecessor Entity Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Year Ended December 31, 2005 January 1 to July 1, 2006 July 1 to December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2007 January 1 to January 31, 2008 February 1 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands) Consolidated Cash Flow Data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 413,919 $ 250,388 $ 148,072 $ 489,790 $ 58,000 $ 456,139 $ 447,379 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (242,533 ) (133,012 ) 4,422 (375,983 ) (14,484 ) (123,728 ) (135,664 ) Net cash used in financing activities (85,094 ) (170,292 ) (83,488 ) (175,378 ) (14,231 ) (362,759 ) (249,565 ) Other Data: Capital expenditures $ 203,183 $ 129,265 $ 53,521 $ 378,607 $ 14,484 $ 120,023 $ 259,664 Predecessor Entity Predecessor Entity Successor Entity As of December 31, 2005 As of December 31, As of December 31, 2008 As of December 31, 2009 2006 2007 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 125,945 $ 142,021 $ 81,773 $ 52,259 $ 116,705 Satellites and other property and equipment, net 1,949,560 1,828,710 1,918,002 2,452,885 2,392,997 Goodwill 2,244,131 3,742,674 3,734,649 3,340,169 3,346,662 Total assets 4,828,081 7,495,384 7,429,108 7,696,128 7,403,692 Total debt 2,932,000 3,501,325 3,447,242 3,354,021 3,266,723 Shareholders equity 1,312,530 2,908,777 2,943,525 2,840,005 2,728,467 35 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our historical consolidated financial statements covers periods before and after the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. This discussion should be read together with Item 6Selected Financial Data and our consolidated financial statements and their notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, and, unless otherwise indicated, the other financial information contained in this Annual Report has also been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1ARisk Factors for a discussion of factors that could cause our future financial condition and results of operations to be different from those discussed below. Certain monetary amounts, percentages and other figures included in this Annual Report have been subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly, figures shown as totals in certain tables may not be the arithmetic aggregation of the figures that precede them, and figures expressed as percentages in the text may not total 100% or, as applicable, when aggregated may not be the arithmetic aggregation of the percentages that precede them. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to dollars and $ in this Annual Report are to, and all monetary amounts in this Annual Report are presented in, U.S. dollars. Overview We operate as a fully integrated subsidiary of Intelsat S.A., our indirect parent. Our combined company operates the worlds largest FSS business, providing a critical layer in the global communications infrastructure. We provide our infrastructure services on a satellite fleet comprised of over 20 satellites that are integrated with satellites owned by other subsidiaries of Intelsat S.A. for a combined fleet of over 50 satellites covering 99% of the earths populated regions. Our satellite capacity is complemented by a terrestrial network comprised of leased fiber optic cable and owned and operated teleports. Our combined company operates more satellite capacity in orbit, has more satellite capacity under contract, serves more commercial customers, delivers services in more countries and distributes more television channels than any other commercial satellite operator. Impact of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions On February 4, 2008, Serafina completed its acquisition of 100% of the equity ownership of Intelsat Holdings for total cash consideration of approximately $5.0 billion. The former shareholders of Intelsat Holdings (other than management) sold 100% of their equity interests in Intelsat Holdings. Upon closing, management contributed to Serafina Holdings the portion of their equity interests in Intelsat Holdings not purchased for cash by Serafina in exchange for equity interests in Serafina Holdings (which was renamed Intelsat Global, Ltd. on February 8, 2008). In order to finance the New Sponsors Acquisition, Serafina borrowed $4.96 billion in aggregate principal amount of term loans under a $2.81 billion senior unsecured bridge loan credit agreement, dated as of February 4, 2008 (the Senior Bridge Loan Credit Agreement) and a $2.15 billion senior unsecured payment-in-kind election bridge loan credit agreement, dated as of February 4, 2008 (the PIK Election Bridge Loan Credit Agreement and, together with the Senior Bridge Loan Credit Agreement, the Bridge Loan Credit Agreements). See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesLong-Term DebtNew Sponsors Acquisition Financing. Immediately following the New Sponsors Acquisition, Intelsat Bermuda, our indirect parent, transferred certain of its assets (including all of its direct and indirect ownership interests in Intermediate Holdco and Intelsat Corp) and certain of its liabilities and obligations to a newly formed direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Intelsat Jackson, pursuant to an assignment and assumption agreement (the Intelsat Bermuda Transfer). Following the Intelsat Bermuda Transfer, Intelsat Jackson became the owner of substantially all of Intelsat Bermudas assets and the obligor with respect to substantially all of Intelsat Bermudas liabilities and obligations, and Intelsat Bermuda no longer had any rights or obligations with respect to such assets and liabilities. Immediately after the consummation of the Intelsat Bermuda Transfer, Serafina assigned certain of its assets and liabilities to Intelsat 36 Table of Contents Bermuda (the Serafina Assignment), including Serafinas rights and obligations under the Bridge Loan Credit Agreements and a Commitment Letter, dated as of June 19, 2007, among Serafina and certain banks, related to the financing of the New Sponsors Acquisition, as amended by the Commitment Letter Amendment, dated as of February 7, 2008 (the Financing Commitment Letter). In addition, we and Intelsat Sub Holdco entered into amendments to our respective existing senior secured credit facilities, and we entered into a joinder agreement to our existing credit agreement, to facilitate the New Sponsors Acquisition. In connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, on February 7, 2008, Intelsat Jackson redeemed all $260.0 million of its outstanding Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2013 and all $600.0 million of its outstanding Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2015, and on March 6, 2008, Intelsat, Ltd. redeemed all $400.0 million of its outstanding 5 1 / 4 % Senior Notes due 2008. In addition, substantially all of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of Intelsat Holdings, including PanAmSat Holdco and us, entered into a master intercompany services agreement (the MISA), pursuant to which these entities provide services to each other. In each case, services are provided on terms that we believe are not materially less favorable to each party than are available on an arms length basis and on terms that the relevant boards of directors have determined to be fair. The New Sponsors Acquisition and the transactions described above are collectively referred to as the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. The New Sponsors Acquisition resulted in a change of control under the indentures governing certain of our outstanding series of notes, giving the holders of those notes the right to require us to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. During the second quarter of 2008, we completed each such change of control offer, financing the repurchases through backstop unsecured credit agreement borrowings under the Financing Commitment Letter. See Liquidity and Capital ResourcesLong-Term DebtNew Sponsors Acquisition FinancingChange of Control Offers andLiquidity and Capital ResourcesLong-Term DebtNew Sponsors Acquisition Financing2008 Debt Refinancings. In addition, all outstanding restricted performance shares under the Intelsat Holdings, Ltd. 2005 Share Incentive Plan (the 2005 Share Plan) vested upon consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition. Vesting in share-based compensation arrangements (SCAs) issued under the 2005 Share Plan doubled if the awardee was still employed on February 4, 2008. The vested SCAs were cancelled in return for cash in an amount equal to the excess of approximately $400 (the per share price of the transaction) over the exercise price of each share covered. Vested restricted shares (including time and performance vesting shares) were purchased at approximately $400 per share. In connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, each unvested restricted share of Intelsat Holdings was exchanged for approximately four unvested restricted shares of Intelsat Global (exchange shares) and the exchange shares continued to be classified as a liability of Intelsat Global due to certain repurchase features in the 2005 Share Plan. In addition, the original vesting periods associated with the unvested Intelsat Holdings restricted shares continued. In May 2009, the board of directors of Intelsat Global adopted an amended and restated Intelsat Global, Ltd. 2008 Share Incentive Plan (the 2008 Share Plan), and Intelsat Global entered into new restricted share agreements with respect to the exchange shares. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, these exchange share grants were no longer subject to certain repurchase features and were instead deemed to be granted in accordance with the guidance provided in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) (the Codification) Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation (FASB ASC 718). In connection with the completion of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions, we recorded $62.7 million of transaction costs within restructuring and transaction costs in our consolidated statement of operations during the predecessor period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008. These costs were associated with the repurchase or cancellation of restricted shares and SCAs of Intelsat Holdings. The New Sponsors Acquisition was accounted for by Intelsat Holdings under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations (FASB ASC 805). As a result, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair market values at the date of acquisition. In accordance with Topic 5J of the codified SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins, the purchase accounting adjustments have been pushed down and recorded in our consolidated 37 Table of Contents financial statements, which resulted in a new basis of accounting for the successor period beginning after the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition. Determining fair values required us to make significant estimates and assumptions. In order to develop estimates of fair values, we considered the following generally accepted valuation approaches: the cost approach, the income approach and the market approach. Our estimates included assumptions about projected growth rates, cost of capital, effective tax rates, tax amortization periods, technology royalty rates and technology life cycles, the regulatory and legal environment, and industry and economic trends. While we believe that the estimates and assumptions underlying the valuation methodologies were reasonable, different assumptions could have resulted in different market values. The purchase price allocation was finalized during the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenue Revenue Overview We earn revenue primarily by providing services over satellite transponder capacity to our customers. Following the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions, we also earn revenue from affiliates under the MISA for services performed and for capacity on our satellites that is sold by other subsidiaries of Intelsat Holdings. In each case, services are provided on terms that we believe are not materially less favorable to each party than are available on an arms length basis and on terms that the relevant boards of directors have determined to be fair. SeeRevenue andOperating Expenses below for the impact of the implementation of the MISA on our operating results. Our customers generally obtain satellite capacity from us by placing an order pursuant to one of several master customer service agreements. The master customer agreements and related service orders under which we sell services specify, among other things, the amount of satellite capacity to be provided, whether service will be non-preemptible or preemptible and the service term. Most services are full time in nature, with service terms ranging from one year to as long as 15 years. Occasional use services used for video applications can be for much shorter periods, including increments of one hour. Our master customer service agreements offer different service types, including transponder services and managed services, which are all services that are provided on, or used to provide access to, our global network. Our customer agreements also cover services from third parties, or mobile satellite services, that can include transponder services and mobile satellite services. The following table describes our primary service types: Service Type Description Transponder Services Commitments by customers to receive service via, or to utilize capacity on, particular designated transponders according to specified technical and commercial terms Managed Services Hybrid services which combine satellite capacity, teleport facilities, satellite communications hardware and fiber optic cable and other ground facilities to provide managed and monitored broadband, Internet, video and private network services to customers. Mobile Satellite Services and Other This category includes revenue for a number of satellite-related consulting and technical services that are related to the lifecycle of satellite operations and related infrastructure, from satellite and launch vehicle procurement through TT&C services and related equipment sales. We market our services on a global basis, with almost every populated region of the world contributing to our revenue. The diversity of our revenue allows us to benefit from changing market conditions and lowers our risk from revenue fluctuations in our service applications and geographic regions. Trends Impacting Our Revenue Our revenue at any given time is partially dependent on the supply of communications capacity available in a geographic region, including capacity from other satellite providers and from competing technologies such as 38 Table of Contents fiber optic cable networks, as well as the level of demand for that capacity. See Item 1BusinessThe FSS Sector for a discussion of the global trends creating demand for our services. In recent years, we have generated new revenue from a number of sources, including on our global network from growth in demand for transponder services for network services applications such as network extensions for cellular phone operators and satellite-based private data networks and managed services for Internet backbone access and corporate broadband networks. We have also experienced growth in demand for transponder services for use in video applications such as HDTV services and DTH television services. The economic downturn which started in 2008 in the United States has had some impact on our media business, for instance, we have experienced slower decision making on new standard and HD channel introductions. Also, in mid-2009, we eliminated a station-kept satellite for fleet efficiency. This resulted in reduced revenues. See Item 1BusinessOur Customer Sets for a discussion of our customers uses of our services and see Item 1BusinessOur Strategy for a discussion of our strategies with respect to marketing to our various customer sets. Customer Applications Our transponder services, managed services and mobile satellite services are used by our customers for two primary customer applications: media applications and network service applications. Pricing We believe that the flexibility that we have to help our customers optimize their services and in pricing services for new capacity in certain regions has positively affected our revenue. Although the pricing of our services is generally fixed for the duration of existing service commitments, new and renewing service commitments are priced competitively to reflect regional demand and other factors, subject to the contractual restrictions noted in the paragraph below. We believe that this flexibility in pricing our services will continue to positively affect our revenue from certain geographic regions. Over the last three years, we experienced improving pricing trends in most of the regions we serve, including in North America, Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Revenue from Affiliates Subsequent to the closing of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions and in connection with the associated Employee Transfer Agreement and MISA, we recognize revenue from affiliates for providing satellite capacity and intercompany administrative, engineering and sales related services to other subsidiaries of Intelsat. Operating Expenses Cost from Affiliates Subsequent to the closing of the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions and in connection with the associated Employee Transfer Agreement and MISA, we recognize costs from affiliates for services provided by other subsidiaries of Intelsat to us. These services are primarily related to the operation of our satellites, and to sales and administrative functions. Direct Costs of Revenue (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization) Direct costs of revenue relate to costs associated with the operation and control of our satellites, our communications network and engineering support and consist principally of salaries and related employment costs, in-orbit insurance, earth station operating costs and facilities costs. Additionally, direct costs of revenue have increased due to launch vehicle and other costs related to our satellite-related services business. We expect our direct costs of revenue to increase as we add customers and expand our managed services and third-party services. 39 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses relate to costs associated with our sales and marketing staff and our administrative staff, which includes legal, finance and human resources. Staff expenses consist primarily of salaries and related employment costs including stock compensation, travel costs and office occupancy costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include building maintenance and rent expenses and the provision for uncollectible accounts. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include fees for professional services and fees payable to the New Sponsors and related parties in support of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions and other strategic activities, which have been significant in recent periods due to the high level of transaction activity. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate with the number of customers served and the number and types of services offered. Depreciation and Amortization Our capital assets consist primarily of our satellites and associated ground network infrastructure. Included in capitalized satellite costs are the costs for satellite construction, satellite launch services, insurance premiums for satellite launch and the in-orbit testing period, the net present value of deferred satellite performance incentives payable to satellite manufacturers, and capitalized interest incurred during the satellite construction period. Capital assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The remaining depreciable lives of our satellites range from less than one year to 16 years. As a result of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions, our depreciation and amortization costs have increased, principally due to depreciation costs we incurred on satellites and the amortization of intangible assets primarily due to increases in fair values as a result of purchase accounting. Impairment Charges We recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $256.0 million in connection with our 2008 annual impairment assessment of our orbital locations. During the first quarter of 2009, the credit markets continued to experience difficulties, with new debt issuances being priced at significantly higher effective interest rates as compared to the pricing of debt issuances completed in prior periods. The higher effective interest rates reflected, in our view, higher discounts being applied in the valuation of companies generally, and were therefore considered by us to be an indicator of potential impairment to the fair value of our right to operate at orbital locations. The higher interest rates resulted in an increase to our weighted average cost of capital, and led to our recognizing a non-cash impairment charge of $144.1 million in the first quarter of 2009. SeeCritical Accounting PoliciesAsset Impairment Assessments. 40 Table of Contents Backlog We benefit from strong visibility of our future revenues. Our backlog, which is our expected future revenue under all our customer contracts, but includes only our pro rata share of backlog of our joint venture investments, was approximately $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average remaining customer contract life was approximately 4.9 years. We currently expect to deliver services associated with approximately $767.6 million, or approximately 18%, of our December 31, 2009 backlog during the year ending December 31, 2010. The amount included in backlog represents the full service charge for the duration of the contract and does not include termination fees. As of December 31, 2009, 97% of our total backlog related to contracts that either were non-cancellable or had substantial termination fees. In certain cases of breach for non-payment or customer bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover the full value of certain contracts or termination fees. Our backlog figures exclude the impact of the MISA transactions. Our expected future revenue under contractual backlog as of December 31, 2009 was as follows (in millions): Period 2010 $ 767.6 2011 642.3 2012 522.0 2013 441.3 2014 377.5 2015 and thereafter 1,539.3 Total $ 4,290.0 Our backlog by service type as of December 31, 2009 was as follows (in millions, except percentages): Service Type Amount Percent Transponder services $ 3,946.3 92 % Managed services 133.0 3 Mobile satellite services and other 210.7 5 Total $ 4,290.0 100 % We believe this backlog and the resulting predictable cash flows in the FSS sector reduce the volatility of our net cash provided by operating activities more than would be typical for a company outside our industry. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 As a result of the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition, the financial results for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 have been separately presented for the predecessor entity for the period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 and for the successor entity for the period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. As such, the reported results of operations for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 are not necessarily comparable to the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to interest expense resulting from the acquisition financing and depreciation and amortization costs principally due to the fair value adjustments to long-lived assets in connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any future period. 41 Table of Contents For comparative purposes, we combined the periods from January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 and February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 in our discussion below, as we believe this combination is useful to provide the reader a year-over-year comparison for purposes of understanding our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We believe this combination of results for the predecessor entity and successor entity periods facilitates an investors understanding of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. However, this combination is not a measure in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and should not be used in isolation or substituted for the separate predecessor entity and successor entity results. Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Combined Period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 Period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands) Revenue: Transponder services, satellite-related services and other $ 71,026 $ 763,855 $ 834,881 Revenue from affiliates 51,021 232,838 283,859 Total revenue 122,047 996,693 1,118,740 Operating expenses: Direct costs of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 11,152 153,218 164,370 Costs from affiliates 6,858 94,499 101,357 Selling, general and administrative 12,117 99,636 111,753 Depreciation and amortization 26,851 319,412 346,263 Transaction costs 62,675 1,926 64,601 Impairment of asset value 256,000 256,000 Losses on derivative financial instruments 11,431 83,451 94,882 Total operating expenses 131,084 1,008,142 1,139,226 Loss from operations (9,037 ) (11,449 ) (20,486 ) Interest expense, net 21,224 223,415 244,639 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 593 593 Other income, net 169 5,713 5,882 Loss before income taxes (30,092 ) (228,558 ) (258,650 ) Benefit from income taxes (10,702 ) (87,063 ) (97,765 ) Net loss $ (19,390 ) $ (141,495 ) $ (160,885 ) 42 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our comparative statements of operations for the periods shown with the increase (decrease) and percentage changes, except those deemed not meaningful (NM), between the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Combined Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Combined Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Percentage Change Revenue Transponder services, satellite-related services and other $ 834,881 $ 850,514 $ 15,633 2 % Revenue from affiliates 283,859 277,622 (6,237 ) (2 ) Total revenue 1,118,740 1,128,136 9,396 1 Operating expenses: Direct costs of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 164,370 172,699 8,329 5 Costs from affiliates 101,357 120,257 18,900 19 Selling, general and administrative 111,753 119,067 7,314 7 Depreciation and amortization 346,263 333,044 (13,219 ) (4 ) Transaction costs 64,601 (64,601 ) NM Impairment of asset value 256,000 144,100 (111,900 ) (44 ) Losses on derivative financial instruments 94,882 16,241 (78,641 ) (83 ) Total operating expenses 1,139,226 905,408 (233,818 ) (21 ) Income (loss) from operations (20,486 ) 222,728 243,214 NM Interest expense, net 244,639 186,122 (58,517 ) (24 ) Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt 593 (51 ) (644 ) NM Other income, net 5,882 4,689 (1,193 ) (20 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (258,650 ) 41,244 299,894 NM Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (97,765 ) 27,072 124,837 NM Net income (loss) $ (160,885 ) $ 14,172 $ 175,057 NM % Revenue The following table sets forth our comparative revenue by service type for the periods shown (in thousands, except percentages): Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Combined Successor Entity Increase (Decrease) Percentage Change Period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 Period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Transponder services $ 64,406 $ 668,151 $ 732,557 $ 710,271 $ (22,286 ) (3 )% Managed services 4,437 53,791 58,228 64,911 6,683 11 Mobile satellite services and other 2,183 41,913 44,096 75,332 31,236 71 Subtotal 71,026 763,855 834,881 850,514 15,633 2 Revenue from affiliates 51,021 232,838 283,859 277,622 (6,237 ) (2 ) Total $ 122,047 $ 996,693 $ 1,118,740 $ 1,128,136 $ 9,396 1 % 43 Table of Contents Revenue from external customers for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased by $15.6 million, or 2%, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. Our revenue increased primarily due to an increase in mobile satellite services and other related to revenue of $44.2 million earned from the resale of launch vehicles and related services, a business which we do not currently intend to pursue in the future, offset by a decline in transponder services. By service type, our revenue increased or decreased due to the following: Transponder services an aggregate decrease of $22.3 million, primarily due to reduced revenues from media customers of $30.2 million, primarily as a result of the elimination of one satellite covering Latin America and the termination of certain customers due to non-payment. These reduced revenues were partially offset by an increase of $8.0 million in revenue from network services customers due primarily to new services and renewals for customers in the North America and the Latin America and Caribbean regions. Managed services an aggregate increase of $6.7 million, primarily due to an increase in revenue from network services customers of $5.9 million resulting largely from new business and service expansion in trunking and private line solutions and GXS broadband solutions in the Africa and Middle East, the North America and the Latin America and Caribbean regions. In addition there was a $5.0 million increase in revenue from managed video solutions primarily in the North America region, partially offset by a $4.0 million decrease in occasional video services for our media customers primarily in the Latin America and Caribbean and the North America regions. Mobile satellite services and other an aggregate increase of $31.2 million, primarily due to increased revenues from professional technical services performed for satellite operators and other customers of our satellite-related services business, including $26.3 million in increased revenue from the completion of the resale of two launch vehicles during the year ended December 31, 2009. Revenue from affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased by $6.2 million, or 2%, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. Revenue earned from the MISA in the combined year ended December 31, 2008 was significantly higher than in other periods due to the increased costs associated with the sale or cancellation of restricted shares and SCAs of Intelsat Holdings in connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions during the combined year ended December 31, 2008. Operating Expenses Direct Costs of Revenue (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization) Direct costs of revenue increased by $8.3 million, or 5%, to $172.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily related to the following: an increase of $8.6 million related to launch vehicle resale costs incurred by our satellite-related services business; and an increase of $3.8 million in staff expenses primarily related to the adoption of the 2008 Share Incentive Plan and equity grants to employees during 2009. Costs from Affiliates Costs from affiliates increased by $18.9 million, or 19%, as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was primarily due to $28.3 million in costs recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily for capacity purchased by Intelsat Corp and its subsidiaries on satellites owned by other subsidiaries of Intelsat Holdings, offset by a $9.3 million decrease in other MISA services. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $7.3 million, or 7%, to $119.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The increase was 44 Table of Contents primarily due to a $15.3 million increase in costs associated with the adoption of the 2008 Share Plan and equity grants to employees, offset by a $7.4 million decrease in professional fees due to expenses incurred during 2008 to support refinancing activities following the New Sponsors Acquisition. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $13.2 million, or 4%, to $333.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to: a net decrease of $17.6 million in depreciation expense due to certain satellites, ground and other assets becoming fully depreciated and changes in certain satellites estimated useful lives; and a decrease of $3.0 million in amortization expense primarily due to changes in the expected pattern of consumption of amortizable intangible assets; partially offset by an increase of $6.5 million in depreciation expense resulting from the impact of a satellite placed into service in June 2008; and an increase of $0.9 million in depreciation expense attributable to the write-up of our depreciable assets to fair value upon the closing of the New Sponsors Acquisition. Income (Loss) from Operations Our income (loss) from operations increased by $243.2 million, from a loss of $20.5 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 to income of $222.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The year-over-year comparison of our financial results was affected by certain material pre-tax items as discussed below: a $144.1 million non-cash impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2009 related to the impairment of our rights to operate at orbital locations resulting from an increase in the discount rate used in our valuation process, compared to a $256.0 million non-cash impairment charge in 2008 related to the impairment of our orbital locations as a result of the annual impairment analysis of non-amortizable intangible assets; a $78.6 million increase in income from operations as a result of a decrease in the losses recognized on our derivative financial instruments for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The value of undesignated interest rate swaps decreased due to cash settlements for interest, representing the difference between the amount of floating rate interest we receive and the amount of fixed rate interest we pay, offset by an increase in fair value as a result of marking-to-market; and $64.6 million in transaction costs incurred during the combined year ended December 31, 2008 upon consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition, with no similar costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net consists of the gross interest expense we incur less the amount of interest we capitalize related to capital assets under construction and less interest income earned. We also held interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $2.2 billion to economically hedge the variability in cash flow on a portion of the floating-rate term loans under our senior secured credit facilities. The swaps have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes as discussed within Income (Loss) from Operations above. Interest expense, net decreased by $58.5 million, or 24%, to $186.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $244.6 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest expense, net was principally due to the following: a decrease of $58.5 million due to lower interest rates on our variable rate debt in 2009 as well as the impact of reduced principal on our senior secured credit facilities as compared to 2008; partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in capitalized interest expense. 45 Table of Contents The non-cash portion of total interest expense, net was $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, which included $9.6 million related to the amortization of discounts associated with a portion of our debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs. Gain (loss) on Early Extinguishment of Debt Gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt was a loss of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a gain of $0.6 million during the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily related to the repurchase of the Intelsat Corp 9% Senior Notes due 2014 during the combined year ended December 31, 2008. Other Income, Net Other income, net was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $5.9 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease of $1.2 million was primarily related to a $3.9 million decrease in miscellaneous income, including income resulting from a reduction in the amounts we are required to pay under a customer contract as a result of a recent amendment, and a $1.8 million decrease in realized gains on our available-for-sale investments, partially offset by a $4.6 million increase in exchange rate losses, primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening against the Brazilian real , which impacts our services contracts with our Brazilian customers. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes increased by $124.8 million to $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a benefit of $97.8 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in tax expense was mostly due to the net increase in income before income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to one-time transaction costs, losses on derivative financial instruments and impairment charges taken in 2008 which exceeded similar charges in 2009. Years Ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 As a result of the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions, the financial results for 2008 have been separately presented for the Predecessor Entity for the period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 and for the Successor Entity for the period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. As a result of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions, the reported results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 are not necessarily comparable. The primary differences include higher depreciation and amortization cost principally due to the fair value adjustments to long-lived assets in connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any future period. 46 Table of Contents For comparative purposes, we combined the periods from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 in our discussion below, as we believe this combination is useful to provide the reader a year-over-year comparison for purposes of understanding our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This combination of results for the predecessor entity and successor entity periods facilitates an investors understanding of our results of operations for 2007 compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. However, this combination is not a GAAP measure and should not be used in isolation or substituted for the separate predecessor entity and successor entity results. Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Combined Period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 Period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 (in thousands) Revenue: Transponder services, satellite-related services and other $ 71,026 $ 763,855 $ 834,881 Revenue from affiliates 51,021 232,838 283,859 Total revenue 122,047 996,693 1,118,740 Operating expenses: Direct costs of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 11,152 153,218 164,370 Costs from affiliates 6,858 94,499 101,357 Selling, general and administrative 12,117 99,636 111,753 Depreciation and amortization 26,851 319,412 346,263 Transaction costs 62,675 1,926 64,601 Impairment of asset value 256,000 256,000 Losses on derivative financial instruments 11,431 83,451 94,882 Total operating expenses 131,084 1,008,142 1,139,226 Loss from operations (9,037 ) (11,449 ) (20,486 ) Interest expense, net 21,224 223,415 244,639 Gain on early extinguishment of debt 593 593 Other income, net 169 5,713 5,882 Loss before income taxes (30,092 ) (228,558 ) (258,650 ) Benefit from income taxes (10,702 ) (87,063 ) (97,765 ) Net loss $ (19,390 ) $ (141,495 ) $ (160,885 ) 47 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our comparative statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 and for the combined year ended December 31, 2008, with the increase (decrease) and percentage changes, except those deemed not meaningful, or NM, between the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Combined Combined Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Increase (Decrease) Percentage Change Revenue Transponder services, satellite-related services and other $ 825,187 $ 834,881 $ 9,694 1 % Revenue from affiliates 215,010 283,859 68,849 32 Total revenue 1,040,197 1,118,740 78,543 8 Operating expenses: Direct costs of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 148,026 164,370 16,344 11 Costs from affiliates 74,104 101,357 27,253 37 Selling, general and administrative 123,839 111,753 (12,086 ) (10 ) Depreciation and amortization 302,232 346,263 44,031 15 Transaction costs 8,776 64,601 55,825 NM Impairment of asset value 256,000 256,000 NM Losses on derivative financial instruments 11,699 94,882 83,183 NM Total operating expenses 668,676 1,139,226 470,550 70 Income (loss) from operations 371,521 (20,486 ) (392,007 ) NM Interest expense, net 257,459 244,639 (12,820 ) (5 ) Gain on early extinguishment of debt 593 593 NM Other income, net 3,795 5,882 2,087 55 Income (loss) before income taxes 117,857 (258,650 ) (376,507 ) NM Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 20,822 (97,765 ) (118,587 ) NM Net income (loss) $ 97,035 $ (160,885 ) $ (257,920 ) NM % 48 Table of Contents Revenue The following table sets forth our comparative revenue by service type for the year ended December 31, 2007, the period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008, the period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 and the combined year ended December 31, 2008, with the increase (decrease) and percentage changes between the year ended December 31, 2007 and the combined year ended December 31, 2008 presented (in thousands, except percentages): Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Combined Increase (Decrease) Percentage Change Year Ended December 31, 2007 Period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 Period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Transponder services $ 739,029 $ 64,406 $ 668,151 $ 732,557 $ (6,472 ) (1 )% Managed services 49,069 4,437 53,791 58,228 9,159 19 Mobile satellite services and other 37,089 2,183 41,913 44,096 7,007 19 Subtotal 825,187 71,026 763,855 834,881 9,694 1 Revenue from affiliates 215,010 51,021 232,838 283,859 68,849 32 Total $ 1,040,197 $ 122,047 $ 996,693 $ 1,118,740 $ 78,543 8 % Revenue from external customers for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 increased by $9.7 million, or 1%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. Our revenue increased primarily due to expansions and renewals of existing contracts, new business and improved contract terms in both managed services and mobile satellite services and other. By service type, our revenue changed due to the following: Transponder services a decrease of $6.5 million due to decreases in revenue from media customers of $25.4 million, partially offset by increases in revenue from network services customers of $18.9 million, due primarily to new services and strong renewals for customers in the North America, the Europe and the Latin America and Caribbean regions. Managed services an increase of $9.2 million primarily due to increases in revenues from network services customers of $5.5 million resulting largely from new business and service expansion in trunking and private line solutions and GXS broadband solutions in North America and increases in revenues from managed video solutions of $6.3 million in the North America and the Asia Pacific regions, offset by a $2.6 million decrease in revenue from occasional video services, primarily in North America. Mobile satellite services and other an increase of $7.0 million largely due to revenues from professional technical services performed for satellite operators and other customers of our satellite-related services business in North America and Europe. Operating Expenses Direct Costs of Revenue (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization) Direct costs of revenue increased by $16.3 million, or 11%, to $164.4 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase was primarily due to: an increase of $10.5 million in cost of sales to support our satellite services program management revenues; and an increase of $5.8 million in cost of sales and fiber expenses primarily related to increased revenues. 49 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $12.1 million, or 10%, to $111.8 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to: an $8.0 million decrease in staff expenses due to the departure of executive level staff and other staff reductions; and a $4.1 million decrease in other expenses, primarily driven by a decrease in bad debt expense due to improved collections, including the collection of certain customer accounts that had been partially reserved. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $44.0 million, or 15%, to $346.3 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase was primarily due to: an increase of $43.1 million in depreciation and amortization expense primarily attributable to the write-up of our depreciable satellites and amortizable assets to fair value upon the closing of the New Sponsors Acquisition; an increase of $22.3 million in depreciation expense resulting from the full year impact of satellites placed into service in 2007 and the impact of satellites placed into service in 2008, primarily our Galaxy 17, IS-11 and Galaxy 18 satellites; and an increase of $10.6 million in depreciation expense related to our ground, building and other assets; partially offset by a decrease of $33.6 million in depreciation expense due to certain satellites becoming fully depreciated in 2008. Income (Loss) from Operations Our income (loss) from operations decreased by $392.0 million, or 106%, from income of $371.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, to a loss of $20.5 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The year-over-year comparison of our financial results was affected by certain material pre-tax items as discussed below: a $256.0 million non-cash impairment charge in 2008 related to the impairment of our orbital locations as a result of our annual impairment analysis of non-amortizable intangible assets (seeCritical Accounting PoliciesAsset Impairment Assessments); an $83.2 million decrease in the value of undesignated interest rate swaps as a result of changes in interest rates; a $55.8 million increase in restructuring and transaction costs, which in 2008 primarily consisted of $62.7 million of costs related to the sale or cancellation of restricted shares and SCAs upon consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition; and a $41.6 million increase in the net positive impact of transactions under our MISA, resulting from higher revenue from affiliates of $68.8 million largely related to the transaction costs associated with the sale and cancellation of restricted shares and SCAs upon consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition, partially offset by higher costs from affiliates of $27.3 million due to increased services provided to us by other subsidiaries of Intelsat Holdings to support new customer business on recently launched satellites. 50 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net consists of the gross interest expense we incur less the amount of interest we capitalize related to capital assets under construction and less interest income earned during the year. Interest expense, net decreased by $12.8 million, or 5%, to $244.6 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to $257.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in interest expense, net was principally due to the following: a decrease of $29.8 million due to lower interest rates on our variable rate debt in 2008 as compared to 2007; partially offset by a decrease of $16.0 million in capitalized interest expense. The non-cash portion of total interest expense, net was $11.4 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008, which included $8.6 million related to the amortization of discounts associated with a portion of our debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Debt Gain on early extinguishment of debt was $0.6 million during the combined year ended December 31, 2008, with no transactions occurring during the year ended December 31, 2007. The gain was due to the repurchase of the Intelsat Corp 9% Senior Notes due 2014 during the combined year ended December 31, 2008. Other Income, Net Other income, net was $5.9 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This $2.1 million increase was primarily related to a $5.3 million increase in miscellaneous income, including income resulting from a reduction in the amounts we were required to pay under a contractual obligation as a result of a recent amendment and $0.6 million in realized gains on our available-for-sale investments, partially offset by a $3.6 million increase in exchange rate losses, primarily due to the dollar strengthening against the Brazilian real, which impacts our service contracts with our Brazilian customers. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes was a benefit of $97.8 million and an expense of $20.8 million for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively. Tax expense decreased for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 due primarily to a reduction in the benefits claimed under the extraterritorial income exclusion, offset by an increase in the loss before income taxes. EBITDA EBITDA consists of earnings before net interest, gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt, taxes and depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is a measure commonly used in the FSS sector, and we present EBITDA to enhance the understanding of our operating performance. We use EBITDA as one criterion for evaluating our performance relative to that of our peers. We believe that EBITDA is an operating performance measure, and not a liquidity measure, that provides investors and analysts with a measure of operating results unaffected by differences in capital structures, capital investment cycles and ages of related assets among otherwise comparable companies. However, EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and our EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to operating income (loss) or net income (loss), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of our operating performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity. 51 Table of Contents A reconciliation of net income (loss) to EBITDA for the periods shown is as follows (in thousands): Predecessor Entity Combined Successor Entity Year Ended December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net income (loss) $ 97,035 $ (160,885 ) $ 14,172 Add: Interest expense, net 257,459 244,639 186,122 (Gain) loss on early extinguishment of debt (593 ) 51 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 20,822 (97,765 ) 27,072 Depreciation and amortization 302,232 346,263 333,044 EBITDA $ 677,548 $ 331,659 $ 560,461 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow Items Our cash flows consisted of the following for the periods shown (in thousands): Predecessor Entity Successor Entity Combined Successor Entity Year Ended December 31, 2007 Period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 Period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 489,790 $ 58,000 $ 456,139 $ 514,139 $ 447,379 Net cash used in investing activities (375,983 ) (14,484 ) (123,728 ) (138,212 ) (135,664 ) Net cash used in financing activities (175,378 ) (14,231 ) (362,759 ) (376,990 ) (249,565 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (60,248 ) 29,348 (32,689 ) (3,341 ) 64,446 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $66.8 million to $447.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. The decreased cash flows from operating activities primarily resulted from an increase in accounts receivables due to higher revenue, an increase in use of cash for accounts payable and accrued liabilities, a decrease in other long term liabilities, and a decrease in deferred revenue due to the recognition of revenue from the completion of the re-sale of two launch vehicles during 2009. This was partially offset by a decrease in payments of prepaid items and an increase in net income excluding non-cash items. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $2.5 million to $135.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to proceeds of $128.6 million from the sale of other property and equipment, including $128.4 million related to the sale of two launch vehicles to an affiliate during 2009, offset by higher capital expenditures of $125.2. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $127.4 million to $249.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the combined year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily 52 Table of Contents due to lower dividend payments to our shareholders and lower principal payments for deferred satellite performance incentives. Financing activities for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 also included the repayment of capital expenditure funding by a customer of $30.9 million, $18.0 million of debt issuance costs, $12.3 million of premium paid in connection with early retirement of certain debt, and a net repayment of long term debt of $52.8 million. During the year ended 2009, our repayments of long-term debt were $90.1 million. Long-Term Debt Intelsat is a highly leveraged company and, in connection with the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions, Intelsat has become a significantly more highly leveraged company, which has resulted in a significant increase in its interest expense. In connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, our pre-acquisition long-term debt was adjusted to fair value as of the effective date of the transaction, resulting in a net decrease of $15.1 million to the carrying value of the debt. This net difference between the fair value and par value of the debt is being amortized as an increase to interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt using the effective interest method. Senior Secured Credit Facility As of December 31, 2009, we had a revolving credit facility and certain term loans outstanding under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which consisted of a $355.9 million Tranche A-3 Senior Secured Term Loan due in 2012, a $1.8 billion Tranche B-2 Senior Secured Term Loan facility due in 2014 maturity, and a $175.0 million revolving credit facility due in 2012. Up to $150.0 million of the revolving credit facility is available for issuance of letters of credit. Additionally, up to $35.0 million of the revolving credit facility is available for swingline loans. We are required to pay a commitment fee for the unused commitments under the revolving credit facility, if any, at a rate per annum of 0.375%. Both the face amount of any outstanding letters of credit and any swingline loans reduce availability under the revolving credit facility on a dollar for dollar basis. Obligations under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement continue to be guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries and are secured by a perfected first priority security interest to the extent legally permissible in substantially all of the borrowers and the guarantors tangible and intangible assets, with certain agreed exceptions. In connection with the Intelsat Acquisition Transactions, we entered into an amendment to renew and extend our senior secured credit facility on July 3, 2006. Also, on January 19, 2007, we amended our senior secured credit facility to reduce the interest rate on the Term Loan facilities. Interest rates for the term loan portion of the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement range from London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.75% to LIBOR plus 2.00% or the Above Bank Rate (ABR) plus 0.75% to the ABR plus 1.00%, depending on certain financial measures. Interest rates for the revolving credit facility portion of the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement range from LIBOR plus 2.125% to LIBOR plus 2.875% or the ABR plus 1.125% to the ABR plus 1.875%, depending on certain financial measures. The ABR and LIBOR, plus the applicable margins, are determined as specified in the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as amended through January 19, 2007. On January 25, 2008, we entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which became effective upon the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition and amended and modified the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement to, among other things: (a) change the applicable margin (i) on ABR loans that are term loans to a rate of 1.5% per annum, (ii) on LIBOR loans that are term loans to a rate of 2.5% per annum, (iii) on ABR loans that are revolving credit loans or swingline loans to a rate of between 1.5% and 1.875%, and (iv) on LIBOR loans that are revolving credit loans or swingline loans to a rate of between 2.5% and 2.875%; (b) reduce the size of the revolving facility by $75.0 million and add a $75.0 million incremental revolving credit facility provision; 53 Table of Contents (c) require the payment of a prepayment premium for prepayments of term loans prior to February 4, 2011 (with respect to Tranche B-2-A Term Loans) or February 14, 2010 (with respect to Tranche B-2-B Term Loans); (d) make certain changes permitting the New Sponsors Acquisition; and (e) add a financial maintenance covenant requiring compliance with a Consolidated Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio (as defined in the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) of less than or equal to 4.5 to 1.0. On February 4, 2008, in connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, we also executed a Joinder Agreement by and among Intelsat Corp, the several lenders party thereto and certain other parties, to the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement pursuant to which we incurred an additional $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Tranche B-2 Term Loan. The Consolidated Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio is determined by comparing Consolidated Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with this financial maintenance covenant ratio, with a Consolidated Secured Debt to Consolidated EBITDA Ratio of 2.57:1.00, as of December 31, 2009. In the event we were to fail to comply with this financial maintenance covenant ratio and were unable to obtain waivers, we would default under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and the lenders under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement could accelerate our obligations thereunder, which would result in an event of default under our existing notes and the Intelsat Jackson unsecured credit agreements. No amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2009; however, $2.1 million in letters of credit were issued and outstanding under the facility. The borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility was $152.2 million at such date. One of the lenders under the revolving credit facility, representing approximately $20.8 million of the $175.0 million of aggregate lending commitments, did not provide any funds in response to a September 2008 borrowing request we made under the revolving credit facility. Our availability of $152.2 million as of December 31, 2009 under the revolving credit facility does not include this $20.8 million commitment, and we can provide no assurance that the commitment will be honored by the relevant lender if we make future borrowing requests. The 2007 Refinancing On January 19, 2007, we further amended the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement governing our senior secured credit facility (the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement). The amendment reduced the Term Loan A-3 interest rate and Term Loan B-2 interest rate from a range of LIBOR plus 2.125% to LIBOR plus 2.875% to a range of LIBOR plus 1.75% to LIBOR plus 2.00%. New Sponsors Acquisition Financing Bridge Loan Credit Agreements On February 4, 2008, in order to partially finance the New Sponsors Acquisition, Serafina borrowed $4.96 billion in aggregate principal amount of term loans under the Bridge Loan Credit Agreements. Immediately following the New Sponsors Acquisition and the Intelsat Bermuda Transfer, Intelsat Bermuda assumed the Bridge Loan Agreements as part of the Serafina Assignment. Credit Facility Amendments In connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, we entered into an amendment to our existing credit agreement. SeeIntelsat Corp Senior Secured Credit Facility above. 54 Table of Contents Debt Repayment On January 15, 2008, we repaid at maturity our $150.0 million 6 3 /8% Senior Notes due 2008 using funds borrowed under the revolving credit facility portion of our senior secured credit facilities. On February 4, 2008, we used the proceeds of our incremental Tranche B-2 Term Loan to repay this $150.0 million revolver borrowing. Change of Control Offers The New Sponsors Acquisition resulted in a change of control under the indentures governing certain of our outstanding series of notes, giving the holders of those notes the right to require us to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. During the second quarter of 2008, we completed each such change of control offer, financing the repurchases through backstop unsecured credit agreement borrowings under the Financing Commitment Letter. The following principal amounts were tendered and repurchased in the change of control offers: $651.6 million of our 9% Senior Notes due 2014; and $575.0 million of our 9% Senior Notes due 2016. 2008 Debt Refinancings On July 18, 2008, we repaid $658.1 million of borrowings under a backstop senior unsecured credit agreement due 2014 and $580.7 million of borrowings under a backstop senior unsecured credit agreement due 2016 with the proceeds of an offering of $658.1 million of Senior Notes due 2014, bearing interest at 9 1 /4%, and $580.7 million of Senior Notes due 2016, bearing interest at 9 1 /4% (collectively, the New Intelsat Corp Senior Notes). The initial purchasers of the New Intelsat Corp Senior Notes and the lenders under the backstop senior unsecured credit agreements were affiliated parties and the repayment was completed without an exchange of cash between us and the lenders. Long-Term Debt Changes in 2009 On July 31, 2009, we redeemed the approximately $1.0 million principal amount of our outstanding 9% Senior Notes due 2014 and the approximately $0.01 million principal amount of our outstanding 9% Senior Notes due 2016. Satellite Performance Incentives Our cost of satellite construction includes an element of deferred consideration to satellite manufacturers referred to as satellite performance incentives. We are contractually obligated to make these payments over the lives of the satellites, provided the satellites continue to operate in accordance with contractual specifications. We capitalize the present value of these payments as part of the cost of the satellites and record a corresponding liability to the satellite manufacturers. This asset is amortized over the useful lives of the satellites and the liability is accreted as interest expense based on the passage of time and reduced as the payments are made. Our total satellite performance incentive payment liability as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 was $119.9 million and $120.3 million, respectively. Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA In addition to EBITDA, which is calculated as set forth inResults of Operations, we calculate a measure called Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA, based on the term Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA consists of EBITDA as adjusted to exclude or include certain unusual items, certain other operating expense items and other adjustments permitted 55 Table of Contents in calculating covenant compliance under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility as described in the table and related footnotes below. Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA as presented below is calculated only with respect to Intelsat Corp and its subsidiaries. Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA is a material component of certain ratios used in the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, such as the secured net debt leverage ratio and the total leverage ratio. Under the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, we must maintain a secured net debt leverage ratio not greater than 4.50 to 1.00, at the end of each fiscal quarter, and generally may not incur additional indebtedness (subject to certain exceptions) if the total leverage ratio calculated on a pro forma basis at the time of incurrence would exceed 6.75 to 1.00. We believe that the inclusion of Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA in this Annual Report is appropriate to provide additional information to investors about the calculation of certain covenants in the Intelsat Corp Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as mentioned above. We believe that some investors may use Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our liquidity and financial condition. Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under U.S. GAAP, and our Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Our Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to operating income (loss) or net income (loss), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of our operating performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity. 56 Table of Contents A reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to net income (loss) to EBITDA to Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA is as follows (in thousands): Combined (1) Successor Entity Year Ended December 31, 2008 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to net income (loss): Net cash provided by operating activities $ 514,139 $ 447,379 Depreciation and amortization (346,263 ) (333,044 ) Impairment of asset value (256,000 ) (144,100 ) Provision for doubtful accounts 391 (943 ) Foreign currency transaction gain (loss) (2,278 ) 2,296 Deferred income taxes 229,370 (25,111 ) Loss on disposal of assets (339 ) (6,860 ) Share-based compensation expense (61,961 ) (16,989 ) Amortization of discount and issuance costs (11,433 ) (10,845 ) Loss on early extinguishment of debt 592 Unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments (76,627 ) 42,809 Other non-cash items (5,509 ) 491 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisition (144,967 ) 59,089 Intelsat Corp net income (loss): (160,885 ) 14,172 Add (Subtract): Interest expense, net 244,639 186,122 (Gain) loss on early extinguishment of debt (593 ) 51 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (97,765 ) 27,072 Depreciation and amortization 346,263 333,044 EBITDA 331,659 560,461 Reconciliation of EBITDA to Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA: Add (Subtract): Transaction costs (2) 64,601 Compensation and benefits (3) 566 20,485 Impairment of asset value (4) 256,000 144,100 Losses on derivative financial instruments (5) 94,882 16,241 Non-recurring and other non-cash items (6) 25,182 22,051 Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA $ 772,890 $ 763,338 (1) As a result of the consummation of the New Sponsors Acquisition, the financial results for the combined year ended December 31, 2008 have been presented separately in our consolidated statements of operations for the predecessor entity for the period January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 and for the successor entity for the period February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. For comparative purposes, we combined the periods from January 1, 2008 to January 31, 2008 and February 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008, as we believe this combination is useful to provide the reader a more accurate comparison. This combination is not a U.S. GAAP measure and it is provided to enhance the readers understanding of the results of operations for the periods presented. (2) Reflects transaction costs related to the New Sponsors Acquisition Transactions. (3) Reflects the portion of expenses incurred relating to our equity compensation plans, defined benefit retirement plan and other post retirement benefits that are excludable under the definition of Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA. (4) Represents the non-cash impairment charge recorded to write-down our intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, IntangibleGoodwill and Other (FASB ASC 350). 57 Table of Contents (5) Represents the changes in the fair value of the undesignated interest rate swaps as well as the difference between the amount of floating rate interest we receive and the amount of fixed rate interest we pay, which are recognized in operating income. (6) Reflects certain non-recurring gains and losses, including costs incurred in connection with the New Sponsors Acquisition, expenses for services on the Galaxy 13/Horizons-1 and Horizons-2 satellites, and loss on disposal of assets primarily related to the assignment of our rights under launch services contracts for the launch of two satellites to Intelsat LLC, which are excluded from Intelsat Corp Adjusted EBITDA by definition. Funding Sources and Uses We are a highly leveraged company and have incurred significant additional debt over the last three years, which has resulted in a large increase in our obligations related to debt service, including increased interest expense. Our interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $186.1 million. We currently expect to use cash on hand, cash flows from operations and availability under our senior secured credit facilities and intercompany borrowings, if necessary, to fund our most significant cash outlays, including debt service requirements and capital expenditures, in the next twelve months. We continually evaluate ways to simplify our capital structure and opportunistically extend our maturities and reduce our costs of debt. No amounts were outstanding under our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2009; however, we had aggregate outstanding letters of credit of $2.1 million outstanding under the revolver portion of our senior secured credit facilities. The remaining availability under our revolving senior secured credit facility at December 31, 2009 was $152.2 million (net of standby letters of credit). Under the terms of the credit agreements governing both Intelsat Sub Holdcos senior secured credit facilities and our amended and restated senior secured credit facilities, the ability of each company to borrow under its respective revolving credit facility is subject to compliance by each companys indirect parent, Intelsat S.A., with a senior secured debt covenant included in the indenture governing Intelsat S.A.s outstanding senior notes. As a result, under certain circumstances, we may not be able to borrow up to the full amount of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility if Intelsat Sub Holdco has certain amounts outstanding under its revolving senior secured credit facilities. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures depend on our business strategies and reflect our commercial responses to opportunities and trends in our industry. Our actual capital expenditures may differ from our expected capital expenditures if, among other things, we enter into any currently unplanned strategic transactions. Levels of capital spending from one year to the next are also influenced by the nature of the satellite life cycle and by the capital-intensive nature of the satellite industry. For example, we incur significant capital expenditures during the years in which satellites are under construction. We typically procure a new satellite within a timeframe that would allow the satellite to be deployed at least one year prior to the end of the service life of the satellite to be replaced. As a result, we frequently experience significant variances in our capital expenditures from year to year. The following table compares our satellite-related capital expenditures to total capital expenditures from 2005 through 2009 (in thousands). Year Satellite-Related Capital Expenditures Total Capital Expenditures 2005 $ 185,761 $ 203,183 2006 163,973 182,786 2007 351,559 378,607 2008 110,781 134,507 2009 227,926 259,664 Total 1,040,000 1,158,747 58 Table of Contents Payment for satellites and other property and equipment also excludes funds paid for deposits on future satellites and launches that are included as a part of other assets and capitalized as construction progresses. We launched one satellite in 2009, and currently have no plans to launch any satellite in 2010. However, we plan to launch one satellite in 2011. We expect our 2010 total capital expenditures to range from approximately $360 million to $410 million. We intend to fund our capital expenditure requirements through cash on hand, cash provided from operating activities and, if necessary, borrowings under the revolving facilities of our senior secured credit facilities and intercompany borrowings. Currency and Exchange Rates See