ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the last two years ended December 31, 2016. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 in this report. Statements in the following discussion that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements, and inherently subject to risk. Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below based on a variety of factors. You should carefully review the risks described under Item 1A and elsewhere in this report, which identify certain important factors that could cause our future financial condition and results of operations to vary from our historical operations and from our current expectations of future results. Executive Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 7 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 7 and this report. We are an operating company that manages a medical technologies portfolio of equity-based and potential royalty-driven investments as follows: (1) Angionetics, currently a majority-owned subsidiary focused on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic gene therapy product candidate designed for medical revascularization for the potential treatment of patients with myocardial ischemia and refractory angina due to advanced coronary artery disease; (2) Activation Therapeutics, a wholly owned subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of the Excellagen technology platform, an FDA-cleared flowable dermal matrix for advanced wound care that we believe has broad potential applications as a delivery platform for small molecule drugs, proteins and biologics; (3) LifeAgain a wholly-owned subsidiary that has developed an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors; and (4) a minority investment in Healthy Brands Collective, a functional food and nutraceutical company which acquired the Companys To Go Brands business. Our business is focused on the acquisition and strategic development of product opportunities or businesses having the potential to address significant unmet medical needs, and having definable pathways to commercialization. Our business model is designed to create a portfolio of opportunities for success, avoiding reliance on any single technology platform or product type. We focus on late-stage product development bridging the critical gap between promising new technologies and product opportunities that are ready for commercialization. As our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. -26- 2016 Developments We entered 2016 with limited working capital. Our principal operating targets for 2016 were: (1) continue to advance the commercialization of our products and product candidates, (2) secure additional financing to support our continued operations, and (3) manage our operating expenses. Highlights of our efforts against these targets included the following: Angionetics Contribution Agreement On May 4, 2016, Bayer Pharma AG agreed to the transfer of the Technology Transfer Agreement from Taxus Cardium to Angionetics. Accordingly, Angionetics has assumed the obligation for any milestone payment required to be paid to Bayer Pharma AG. Under the terms of the Technology Transfer Agreement, Angionetics also may be obligated to pay the following royalties to Bayer Pharma AG: (i) 5% on net sales following a first commercial sale of an FGF-4 based product in the United States, Europe, or Japan, or (ii) 4% on net sales of other products developed based on technology transferred by Bayer Pharma AG (as successor to Schering AG) following a first commercial sale in the United States, Europe, or Japan, and (iii) a royalty of 2.5% (for FGF-4 based technology) or 2% (for other products) in territories where the product would not infringe the patents licensed by Bayer Pharma AG (as successor to Schering AG). Angionetics will also be obligated to reimburse Bayer Pharma AG for patent expenses, including the expenses of any interference or other proceedings, accrued on or after April 1, 2005 in connection with the transferred technologies. To date there have been no sales or payments under this agreement. On June 6, 2016, we entered into a Contribution Agreement with our Angionetics subsidiary pursuant to which we assigned to Angionetics certain intellectual property and other assets related to the Generx platform technology in consideration of a $2.0 million technology transfer fee to be paid by Angionetics to Taxus Cardium upon completion of an equity financing in excess of $20 million or upon change in control of Angionetics. Assets contributed to Angionetics included the Ad5FGF-4 Master Virus Bank (frozen), HEK 293 Producer Cell Bank (frozen), developmental histories and lineages for Master Virus Bank and Master Cell Bank, the Ad5FGF-4 Genomic Sequence, Ad5FGF-4 batch production records, manufacturing testing protocols and specifications, product release testing reports, and certificates of analysis, and stability. In addition, we assigned the clinical sponsorship of the Generx Ad5FGF-4 investigational new drug application to Angionetics, which was accepted by the FDA. Huapont Life Sciences Financing Agreement On June 7, 2016, Taxus Cardium and Angionetics entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited an entity affiliated with Huapont Life Sciences Co. Ltd, a China-based pharmaceutical, and active pharmaceutical ingredient company (Huapont). Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, Angionetics agreed to sell 600,000, shares of its newly authorized Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Shares) to the Huapont affiliate in exchange for $3,000,000 in cash. The Shares represent an initial 15% equity interest in Angionetics, resulting in a post-money valuation of $20.0 million for Angionetics, subject to certain anti-dilution protection described below. The investment from the Huapont affiliate was made in two tranches. The closing of the initial tranche of 200,000 Shares for $1,000,000 occurred on July 5, 2016. The closing of the second tranche of 400,000 Shares for $2,000,000 was conditioned upon Angionetics securing FDA clearance to initiate a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical study (the AFFIRM study) to evaluate the safety and definitive efficacy of the Generx [Ad5FGF-4] product candidate for the treatment of patients with ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. On September 28, 2016, following FDA clearance of the Phase 3 AFFIRM study, Angionetics received $2,000,000 from the closing of the second tranche. The Angionetics Shares have the following rights, privileges and preferences: Dividends . Holders of the Shares are entitled to receive dividends as, when and if declared by the Angionetics board of directors on the Angionetics common stock, on an as-converted basis. Liquidation . In the event of a liquidation of Angionetics, including a change of control transaction, holders of the Shares are entitled to be paid an amount equal to their investment amount before any payment is made to Taxus Cardium or any other holders of Angionetics common stock. Voting . The Shares generally vote with the Angionetics common stock as a single class on an as-converted basis. Holders of the Shares also have certain special voting rights as a separate class including (a) the right to appoint a member to the Angionetics board of directors, (b) the right to approve any increase or decrease in the number of authorized shares of the Shares or the common stock, any merger or acquisition involving Angionetics, any liquidation or winding up of Angionetics, any increase in the number of directors and any dividend or distribution, and (c) the right to approve any amendment to the Angionetics certificate of incorporation in a manner that adversely affects the rights of the Shares. The voting rights under (a) and (b) terminate if Huapont does not complete the second closing under the share purchase agreement. Conversion . The Shares are convertible into shares of Angionetics common stock at any time at the holders election. The Shares automatically convert into common stock upon the closing of a firm commitment underwritten public offering of Angionetics common stock. The Shares are initially convertible on a one to one basis into Angionetics common stock. The Shares are subject to anti-dilution protection, such that in the event of a firm commitment underwritten public offering or a change in control each Share will be convertible into a pro rata portion of 15% of the outstanding Angionetics common stock at the time of the public offering or change in control. -27- Generx License Agreement in Mainland China On June 7, 2016, Angionetics entered into a Distribution and License Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited, an entity affiliated with Huapont. Under the terms of the agreement, the Huapont affiliate has been granted an exclusive license to clinically develop, manufacture, market and sell the Generx [Ad5FGF-4] angiogenic gene therapy product candidate in mainland China. Angionetics will be responsible for conducting the planned U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical program. Working in cooperation with researchers at Angionetics, Huaponts affiliated entity has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct clinical trials, make regulatory filings and take such other actions as may be necessary to commercialize Generx in mainland China. Huaponts affiliate will be responsible the costs associated with the commercial development of Generx in mainland China. The Distribution and License Agreement provides for the Huapont affiliate to make quarterly royalty payments to Angionetics at a rate of 10% of net sales of Generx products in mainland China, reducing to a 5% royalty based on the volume of annual sales. The royalty payments commence on the first commercial sale and expire on the earlier of the termination of any patent or regulatory exclusivity in China or fifteen years after the first commercial sale. The term of the agreement continues (unless terminated for breach) until Huaponts affiliate has no remaining payment obligations to Angionetics. Upon expiration (but not an earlier termination) Huaponts affiliate shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive, fully paid-up, and royalty free license to Generx in mainland China. Termination of Russian Generx Clinical Development Program Following the formation and initial capitalization of Angionetics, our management team initiated a comprehensive review of the global Generx regulatory and clinical dossier, and elected to primarily focus on the clinical advancement and registration of Generx in the United States and China, which we believe to be the most dynamic medical markets in the world for new and novel breakthrough products such as the Generx product candidate. As a result of this review, on July 13, 2016 we notified Dr. Reddys Laboratories (NYSE: RDY) of our plan to discontinue Generx development in the Russian Federation. Consequently, our previously reported commercialization opportunity with Dr. Reddys Laboratories was not advanced to a definitive agreement. FDA Approval of U.S. based Phase 3 Clinical Trial (AFFIRM) On September 9, 2016, Angionetics was granted FDA clearance to proceed with a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate the further safety and definitive efficacy of Generx [Ad5FGF-4] for men and women with advanced ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. On February 3, 2017, Angionetics received notice that the FDA has granted Fast Track designation for the Phase 3 clinical investigation of Generx [Ad5FGF-4] cardiovascular angiogenic gene therapy as a one-time treatment for improving exercise tolerance in patients who have angina that is refractory to standard medical therapy and not amenable to conventional revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary intervention and stents). Under the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, designation as a Fast Track product means that FDA will take actions, as appropriate, to expedite the development and review of a biologics license application (BLA) for product approval. The FDAs Fast Track process is designed to facilitate clinical and commercial development and expedite the review of new drugs and biologics that are intended to treat serious conditions that demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need. Exchange and Redemption Agreement On September 23, 2016, we entered into a second Exchange and Redemption Agreement with Sabby covering the 1,000 shares of Taxus Cardium Preferred Stock outstanding at the time. Under the terms of the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, Taxus Cardium agreed to reduce the conversion price at which Sabby can convert shares of Preferred Stock to shares of common stock to an effective price of $0.18 per share. The Exchange and Redemption Agreement grants Taxus Cardium a right to redeem any or all of the outstanding Preferred Stock for its Stated Value (approximately $1,000 per share) at any time after the date of the Agreement until November 29, 2016. We entered into the agreement to increase our options for retiring the outstanding Preferred Stock and financing our continued business operations. As a result of the conversion price changing from $0.30 to $0.18 per share, the 1,000 shares of Preferred Stock outstanding became convertible to 5,554,667 shares of common stock, an additional 2,221,867 compared to before the conversion price change. A hypothetical conversion of all of the outstanding Preferred Stock of 928 shares as of December 31, 2016 into 5,154,674 common shares would increase the common stock outstanding from 13,723,544 shares as of December 31, 2016, to 18,878,218, an increase of 38%. The reduction in the conversion price under the Exchange and Redemption Agreement triggered an anti-dilution protection in 7,235,600 previously granted common stock purchase warrants not held by Sabby, resulting in an additional 4,823,733 warrant shares to be granted for a total of 12,059,333 common stock purchase warrant with anti-dilutive provisions outstanding. The exercise price per common share in these warrants remains unchanged as the original common stock purchase warrant, a weighted average price of $0.71 per share. As of December 31, 2016, there were 13,723,544 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. There were 928 issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock which are convertible into 5,154,674 shares of common stock. In addition, there were 17,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were awarded under the 2005 Equity Inventive Plan, which have a weighted average exercise price of $15.50 per share. As of December 31, 2016, there were 12,099,334 -28- shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants which have an average exercise price of $0.71 per share for a total conversion price of $8,602,597, these warrants may also be re deemed through a cashless exercise whereby the warrant holder surrenders the required number of warrants needed to exercise the remaining warrants. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We record reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds managements estimate of net realizable value. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. We calculate the value of equity compensation expense associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using Black-Scholes Option Model which approximates a binomial lattice model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of subjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the riskfree interest rate, the options expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stock option compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to overvalue our warrant and stock option compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of our long lived assets to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. On November 15, 2013, we sold the assets of our To Go Brands business to Cell-nique Corporation (the owner of Healthy Brands Collective) in exchange for 33,441 shares of preferred stock (representing approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis) and the assumption of certain liabilities. Since Cell-nique Corporation is a private company we have recorded the value of those shares of preferred stock on our balance sheet as an investment in Cell-nique Corporation, at the net asset value of the net assets transferred (cost) to Cell-nique Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances which warranted an evaluation of our investment in the Cell-nique preferred shares and a further impairment charge of $300,000 was recorded. In December 2011, we entered into a series of agreements with Source One Global Partners, LLC, (SourceOne) related to a strategic relationship for our nutraceuticals business. Under these agreements, we issued 75,000 shares of our common stock for an option to purchase to a 15% ownership interest in SourceOne. The 75,000 shares were recorded at a value of $5.80, for an aggregate of $435,000, based on the closing price of our stock on December 19, 2011. In connection with the SourceOne transactions we also acquired the license to option certain technology from SourceOne, in exchange for an additional 75,000 shares of our common stock, which were to be held in escrow until the exercise of such a license. The technology license expired in December 2015 and pursuant to its terms 37,500 shares of the escrowed common stock was released to SourceOne. The remaining 37,500 shares were released back to Taxus Cardium and cancelled. Other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Fiscal 2016 Compared to Fiscal 2015 Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $641,572 compared to $361,484 for the same period in 2015. The increase of $280,088 or 77% was primarily attributable to a $188,049 increase in employee related expenses, a $89,613 increase in license fees, a $21,311 increase in clinical trial expenses offset by a decrease of $4,800 in professional fees and a reduction of $14,085 in stock-based compensation expense. -29- Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $2,199,412 compared to $2,753,482 for the year ended December 31, 2015. The decrease of $554,070 or 20% was the result of a decrease of $452,550 in stock-based compensation expense, a decrease of $146,508 in employee related costs, a decrease of $45,941 in facilities and insurance costs related to the relocation of our corpor ate headquarters, a decrease of $34,320 in travel related costs, a decrease of $54,662 in professional service costs, a decrease of $68,600 reduction in public, investor relations and other sales and marketing expenses. The decreases in expenses were offs et by an increase in headcount related costs of $163,391 and $15,381 increase in other corporate expenses. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2015, we had a reversal of $69,739 of expenses related to the liquidation of accruals of Healthy Bra nds. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $172,825 compared to $82,594 for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase of $90,231 or 109% was primarily due to an increase of $134,260 in interest charges on unpaid license fees and a decrease of $44,029 of interest costs in connection with cash advances received from an officer of the Company. Other expense of $500,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 included impairment charges of $ 300,000 associated with the write down of our investment in Cell-nique Corporation or Healthy Brands Collective and $200,000 write-off of a vendor credit for future services. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016, we had $930,397 in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at December 31, 2016 was approximately $3.5 million . Since our inception we have incurred recurring losses and as of December 31, 2016, we had accumulated deficit of approximately $117.4 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in net cash used in operating activities was due primarily to changes in operating assets and liabilities and a reduction in non-cash expenses such as impairments and stock-based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $171,728 and was primarily for leasehold improvements related to the build out of our new office space. We had no net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2016, we did not have any significant capital expenditure requirements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $3,104,185 for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to $857,709 for the same period in 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash received from financing activities included $3,000,000 net cash from a Huapont affiliate for the purchase of 600,000 shares of Series A Convertible preferred stock in Angionetics, Inc. and $104,185 of cash advanced or expenses paid on our behalf by the Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary Company expenses. We anticipate that negative cash flows from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We intend to secure additional working capital through sales of additional equity and debt securities to finance our operations. As long as any shares of our Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, or incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. Our principal business objective is to advance or Generx product candidate through the AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical trial and to begin commercialization of Generx in the United States. In order to secure the requisite funding we intend to sell debt or equity securities in Taxus Cardium or Angionetics. We will also look to monetize our other investments, including the possible sale of equity in Activation Therapeutics, LifeAgain or Healthy Brands Collective. If we fail to conclude such a financing or sale transaction in a timely manner, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Angionetics will require substantial additional capital to complete the Phase 3 AFFIRM study. We estimate that we will need an additional $25 to $50 million in additional capital to complete that study. We plan to secure that capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities. There are no agreements or arrangement for any additional financing in place at this time. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt, nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors. -30- Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ( ASU ) ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . This standard is intended to improve the accounting for employee share-based payments and affects all organizations that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. Several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are simplified, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification on the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). ASU 2016-02 increases the transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required, as well as a retrospective recognition and measurement of impacted leases. The new ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating this ASU to determine its impact on our consolidated net income, financial position, cash flows and disclosures. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred taxes by requiring deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. ASU 2015-17 is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The guidance may be adopted prospectively or retrospectively and early adoption is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory . ASU 2015-11 simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory by requiring inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in first-out and the retail inventory method. ASU 2015-11 is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of ASU 2015-11 is permitted. We do not believe the adoption of this standard will have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . This ASU is intended to provide guidance on the responsibility of reporting entity management. Specifically, this ASU provides guidance to management related to evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about the reporting entitys ability to continue as a going concern and about related financial statement note disclosures. The FASB issued this guidance to require management evaluation and potential financial statement disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for financial statements with periods ending after December 15, 2016. We adopted this standard, and its adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.