Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Summary of Selected Risk Factors Associated with Our Business The following is only a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in our Class A common stock. Material risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following: Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have incurred significant net losses in recent years, we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. If we fail to effectively manage our growth and organizational change, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We derive, have derived and expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform. Any failure of our Unified-CXM platform to satisfy customer demands, achieve increased market acceptance or adapt to changing market dynamics would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. The market for Unified-CXM solutions is new and rapidly evolving, and if this market develops more slowly than we expect or declines, or develops in a way that we do not expect, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract new customers in a manner that is cost-effective and assures customer success, then our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business depends on our customers renewing their subscriptions and on us expanding our sales to existing customers. Any decline in our customer renewals or expansion would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we or our third-party service providers experience a cybersecurity breach or other security incident or unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers data, our data or our Unified-CXM platform, our Unified-CXM platform may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our Unified-CXM platform may be reduced and we may incur significant liabilities. The market in which we participate is new and rapidly evolving, and if we do not compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business and growth depend in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, as well as on the continued availability and quality of feedback data from third parties over whom we do not have control. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or other similar outbreaks. Certain of our results of operations and financial metrics may be difficult to predict. Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to stringent and changing obligations related to data privacy and security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; loss of customers or sales; and other adverse business consequences. 16 We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, or if other control deficiencies are identified, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and investors views of us and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. Our directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of our Class B common stock are able to exert significant control over us, which limits your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change of control. Risks Related to Our Growth and Capital Requirements Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our revenue was $492.4 million and $386.9 million for the years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Even if our revenue continues to increase, our revenue growth rate may decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business. Overall growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: price our products effectively so that we are able to attract new customers and expand sales to our existing customers; expand the functionality and use cases for the products we offer on our unified customer experience management, or Unified-CXM, platform; provide our customers with support that meets their needs; continue to introduce our products to new markets outside of the United States; successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our Unified-CXM platform; and increase awareness of our brand on a global basis and successfully compete with other companies. We may not successfully accomplish any of these objectives, and, as a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our future results of operations. If the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in the markets in which we operate, or if we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future revenue or revenue growth. We have incurred significant net losses in recent years, we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We have incurred significant net losses in recent years, including net losses of $111.5 million and $38.0 million for the years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $441.6 million as of January 31, 2022. We expect that our costs will increase over time and our losses will continue, as we expect to invest significant additional funds in our business and incur costs relating to operating as a public company. To date, we have financed our operations principally through subscription payments by customers for use of our Unified-CXM platform and equity and debt financings. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: our Unified-CXM platform, including investing in our research and development team, developing or acquiring new products, features and functionality and improving the scalability, availability and security of our Unified-CXM platform; our technology infrastructure, including expansion of our activities with public cloud service providers, enhancements to our network operations and infrastructure design, and hiring of additional employees for our operations team; sales and marketing, including expansion of our direct sales organization and marketing efforts; and additional international expansion in an effort to increase our customer base and sales. These investments may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from achieving and 17 maintaining profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In the event that we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, the value of our Class A common stock could decline. If we fail to effectively manage our growth and organizational change, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. In addition, we operate globally, sell subscriptions in more than 60 countries, and have established subsidiaries in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Dubai, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. We plan to continue to expand our international operations into other countries in the future, which will place additional demands on our resources and operations. We also have experienced significant growth in the number of enterprises, end users, transactions and amount of data that our Unified-CXM platform and our associated hosting infrastructure support. Our number of customers has grown from 1,014 as of January 31, 2021 to 1,166 as of January 31, 2022, an increase of 15%. In addition, we may attempt to further grow our business by selling our Unified-CXM platform to U.S. federal, state, and local, as well as foreign, governmental agency customers. Growing our business by increasing the number of governmental agency customers we service would subject us to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to such agencies can be highly competitive and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expenses without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. We may not satisfy certain government contracting requirements necessary to attain certification to sell our Unified-CXM platform to certain governmental agency customers. Such government contracting requirements may change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained the revised certification. Government demand and payment for our products are affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Finally, sales of our Unified-CXM platform to governmental agency customers that are engaged in certain sensitive industries, including organizations whose products or activities are perceived to be harmful, could result in public criticism and reputational risks, which could engender dissatisfaction among potential customers, investors and employees with how we address political and social concerns in our business activities. If we are unable to grow our business by increasing the number of governmental agency customers we service, or if we fail to overcome the challenges and risks associated with selling to such entities, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Further, in order to successfully manage our growth, our organizational structure has become, and may continue to become, more complex. We may need to scale and adapt our operational, financial and management controls further, as well as our reporting systems and procedures to manage this complexity and our increased responsibilities as a public company. This has required, and will continue to require, that we invest in and commit significant financial, operational and management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining the corporate culture that has been critical to our growth so far. These investments require significant expenditures, and any investments we make occur in advance of the benefits from such investments, making it difficult to determine in a timely manner if we are efficiently allocating our resources. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, or if we are unable to achieve a high level of efficiency as our organization grows in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our culture, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our revenue growth rate has fluctuated in prior periods and may decline again in the future. Our revenue growth rate has fluctuated in prior periods. We have previously experienced periods of revenue growth rate decline, and our revenue growth rate may decline again in future periods as the size of our customer base increases and as we achieve higher market penetration rates. In particular, we expect the growth rate of our subscription revenue to fluctuate from period to period, and, in the near term, subscription revenue growth rates may be lower compared to comparable periods in the prior fiscal year. Many factors also may contribute to declines in our revenue growth rate, including slowing demand for our Unified-CXM platform, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, our failure to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities and the maturation of our business, among others. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. We may not be able to secure financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through subscription payments by our customers for use of our Unified-CXM platform and equity and debt financings, including credit facilities. We do not know when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our ongoing operations. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of subscriptions for our Unified-CXM platform or unforeseen circumstances. We evaluate financing opportunities from time to time, and our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to timely secure 18 additional equity or debt financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we engage in any debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock. The holders of debt could impose restrictions on our business during the time the loan is outstanding, including restrictive covenants relating to financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. The holders of debt would also likely obtain security interests on our assets enabling the debt holders to seize and take ownership or dispose of the property, whether tangible or intangible, in which they have a security interest if we default on repayment of the loan or any of the conditions associated with the loan. We also may be required to take other actions that would be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The SVB Credit Facility prohibits us from incurring additional indebtedness without prior written consent, among other conditions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We derive, have derived and expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform. Any failure of our Unified-CXM platform to satisfy customer demands, achieve increased market acceptance or adapt to changing market dynamics would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. We derive, have derived and expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform. As such, the market acceptance of our Unified-CXM platform is critical to our success. Demand for our Unified-CXM platform is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the extension of our Unified-CXM platform for new use cases, the timing of development and release of new products, features and functionality introduced by us or our competitors, technological change and the growth or contraction of the market in which we compete. In addition, we expect that an increasing focus on customer satisfaction and the growth of various communications channels and new technologies will profoundly impact the market for Unified-CXM solutions. We believe that enterprises increasingly are looking for flexible solutions that bridge across traditionally separate systems for experience management, marketing automation and customer relationship management. If we are unable to meet this demand to manage customer experiences through flexible solutions designed to address a broad range of needs, or if we otherwise fail to achieve more widespread market acceptance of our Unified-CXM platform, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects may be adversely affected. The market for Unified-CXM solutions is new and rapidly evolving, and if this market develops more slowly than we expect or declines, or develops in a way that we do not expect, our business could be adversely affected. Because we generate, and expect to continue to generate, a large majority of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform, we believe that our success and growth will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread acceptance and adoption of Unified-CXM solutions in general, and of our Unified-CXM platform in particular. The market for Unified-CXM solutions is new and rapidly evolving, and if this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our Unified-CXM platform could be adversely affected. The CXM market also is subject to rapidly changing user demand and trends. As a result, it is difficult to predict enterprise adoption rates and demand for our Unified-CXM platform, the future growth rate and size of our market or the impact of competitive solutions. The expansion of the CXM market depends on a number of factors, including awareness of the Unified-CXM category generally, ease of adoption and use, cost, features, performance and overall platform experience, data security and privacy, interoperability and accessibility across devices, systems and platforms and perceived value. If Unified-CXM solutions do not continue to achieve market acceptance, or if there is a reduction in demand for Unified-CXM solutions for any reason, including a lack of category or use case awareness, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, data security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products or decreases in information technology spending, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract new customers in a manner that is cost-effective and assures customer success, then our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In order to grow our business, we must continue to attract new customers in a cost-effective manner and enable such customers to realize the benefits associated with our Unified-CXM platform. We may not be able to attract new customers to our Unified-CXM platform for a variety of reasons, including as a result of their use of traditional approaches to customer experience management, their internal timing or budget or the pricing of our Unified-CXM platform compared to products and services offered by our competitors. 19 After a customer makes a purchasing decision, we often must also help them successfully implement our Unified-CXM platform in their organization, a process that can last several months. Even if we do attract new customers, the cost of their acquisition or ongoing customer support may prove so high as to prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. We intend to continue to hire additional sales personnel, increase our marketing activities to help educate the market about the benefits of our Unified-CXM platform, grow our domestic and international operations and build brand awareness. If the costs of these sales and marketing efforts increase dramatically or if they do not result in the cost-effective acquisition of additional customers or substantial increases in revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on our customers renewing their subscriptions and on us expanding our sales to existing customers. Any decline in our customer renewals or expansion would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that we maintain and expand our relationships with our customers and that our customers renew their subscriptions when the initial subscription term expires or otherwise expand their subscription program with us. Our customers are not obligated to, and may elect not to, renew their subscriptions on the same or similar terms after their existing subscriptions expire. Some of our customers have in the past elected, and may in the future elect, not to renew their agreements with us or otherwise reduce the scope of their subscriptions, and we do not have sufficient operating history with our business model and pricing strategy to accurately predict long-term customer renewal rates. In addition, the growth of our business depends in part on our customers expanding their use of our Unified-CXM platform, which can be difficult to predict. Our customer renewal rates, as well as the rate at which our customers expand their use of our Unified-CXM platform, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the customers satisfaction with our Unified-CXM platform, defects or performance issues, our customer and product support, our prices, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, the entrance of new or competing technologies and the pricing of such competitive offerings or reductions in the enterprises spending levels for any reason. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or reduce the scope of their subscriptions, our revenue may decline and we may not realize improved results of operations from our customer base, and, as a result, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we or our third-party service providers experience a cybersecurity breach or other security incident or unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers data, our data or our Unified-CXM platform, our Unified-CXM platform may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our Unified-CXM platform may be reduced and we may incur significant liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, we may collect, receive, store, process, generate, use, transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, transmit, and share (commonly known as processing) proprietary and confidential data, including personal data, intellectual property, and trade secrets (collectively, confidential information). Use of our Unified-CXM platform also involves processing our customers information, including personal data regarding their customers or employees. We may rely upon third-party service providers and technologies to operate critical business systems to process confidential information in a variety of contexts, including, without limitation, third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, and other functions. While we require our third-party service providers who process confidential information on our behalf to meet certain security requirements, our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have, or continue to have, adequate information security measures in place. We may share or receive confidential information with or from third parties. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to cybersecurity attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to our or our customers confidential information or to disrupt our ability to provide our Unified-CXM platform. While we have taken steps to protect the security of the confidential information that we handle, the Unified-CXM platform and our systems, there can be no assurance that any security measures that we or our third-party service providers have implemented will be effective against current or future security threats. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could fail and result in unauthorized access to or use of our Unified-CXM platform or unauthorized, accidental or unlawful access to, or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss or destruction of, our or our customers confidential data, including personal data. Cyberattacks, malicious internet-based activity, and online and offline fraud are prevalent and continue to increase. These threats are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. These threats come from a variety of sources, including traditional computer hackers, threat actors, personnel (such as through theft or misuse), sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors. We and the third parties upon which we rely may be subject to a variety of evolving threats, including but not limited to social-engineering attacks (including through phishing attacks), malicious code (such as viruses and worms), malware (including as a result of advanced persistent threat intrusions), denial-of-service attacks (such as credential stuffing), software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fires, floods, and other similar threats. Ransomware attacks, including by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of data and 20 income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Similarly, supply-chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our third-party partners supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems (including our products and services) or the third-party information technology systems that support us and our services. The COVID-19 pandemic and our remote workforce poses increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as more of our employees work from home, utilizing network connections outside our premises. Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Any of the previously identified or similar threats could cause a security incident or other interruption. A security incident or other interruption could result in unauthorized, unlawful, or accidental acquisition, modification, destruction, loss, alteration, encryption, disclosure of, or access to our confidential information. A security incident or other interruption could disrupt our ability (and that of third parties upon whom we rely) to provide our Unified-CXM platform and our services. We may expend significant resources or modify our business activities to try to protect against security incidents. Certain data privacy and security obligations may require us to implement and maintain specific security measures, industry-standard or reasonable security measures to protect our information technology systems and confidential information. Furthermore, because data security and privacy is a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make numerous statements in our privacy policies and terms of service, through our certifications to certain industry standards and in our marketing materials providing assurances about the security of our Unified-CXM platform, including detailed descriptions of security measures we employ. Although we endeavor to comply with our public statements and documentation, we may at times fail to do so or be alleged to have failed to do so. The publication of our privacy policies and other statements that provide promises and assurances about data privacy and security can subject us to potential government or legal action if they are found to be deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our actual practices. Should any of these statements prove to be untrue or be perceived as untrue, even through circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we may face litigation, disputes, claims, investigations, inquiries or other proceedings by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, federal, state and foreign regulators, our customers and private litigants, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We operate our products for the benefit of our customers who have documented responsibilities to maintain certain security controls, such as provisioning and deprovisioning users, in their respective environments without oversight or control by us. Our customers may weaken or incorrectly configure security controls provided by us to maintain the security of their environments, resulting in a loss of confidentiality or integrity of such customers data or processes. Such an event may result in public disclosures and negative publicity for us and such customer, which may have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our corporate goals and could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. While we have implemented security measures designed to protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We have not always been able in the past and may be unable in the future to detect vulnerabilities in our information technology systems (including our products) because such threats and techniques change frequently, are often sophisticated in nature, and may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. Despite our efforts to identify and remediate vulnerabilities, if any, in our information technology systems (including our products), our efforts may not be successful. Further, we may experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address any such identified vulnerabilities. Applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders of security incidents. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosures or the failure to comply with such requirements could lead to adverse consequences. If we (or a third party upon whom we rely) experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may experience adverse consequences. These consequences may include: government enforcement actions (for example, investigations, fines, penalties, audits, and inspections); additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; restrictions on processing confidential information (including personal data); litigation (including class claims); indemnification obligations; negative publicity; reputational harm; monetary fund diversions; interruptions in our operations (including availability of data); financial loss; and other similar harms. Security incidents and attendant consequences may cause customers to stop using our Unified-CXM platform, deter new customers from using our Unified-CXM platform, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. 21 We rely on third-party data centers and cloud computing providers, and any interruption or delay in service from these facilities could impair the delivery of our Unified-CXM platform and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data centers and cloud computing providers located around the world. Some of these facilities may be located in areas prone to natural disasters and may experience events such as earthquakes, floods, fires, severe weather events, power loss, computer or telecommunication failures, service outages or losses, and similar events. They also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct or cybersecurity issues, human error, terrorism, improper operation, unauthorized entry and data loss. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our services, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. We also may incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the data centers that we use. Although we carry business interruption insurance, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business that may result from interruptions in our services or products. As we grow and continue to add new third-party data centers and cloud computing providers and expand the capacity of our existing third-party data centers and cloud computing providers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our Unified-CXM platform. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems, or those of our third-party data centers or cloud computing providers or the systems of a customer that hosts our software in their private cloud, could result in interruptions on our Unified-CXM platform or damage to, or loss or compromise of, our data and our customers data, including personal data. Any impairment of our or our customers data or interruptions in the functioning of our Unified-CXM platform, whether due to damage to, or failure of, third-party data centers, cloud computing providers or the cloud computing providers of our customers or unsuccessful data transfers, may reduce our revenue, result in significant fines, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims for indemnification and other claims, litigation or disputes, result in regulatory investigations or other inquiries, cause our customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our reputation, renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our existing and potential customers believe that our Unified-CXM platform is unreliable or not secure. Further, our leases and other agreements with data center and cloud computing providers expire at various times, and the owners of our data center facilities and cloud computing providers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, certain of our data center and clouding computing provider agreements may be terminable for convenience by the counterparty. If services are interrupted at any of these facilities or providers, such agreements are terminated, or we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or if one of our data center or cloud computing providers is acquired or encounters financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data centers and cloud computing providers, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruptions in connection with doing so. In addition, if we do not accurately plan for our data center and cloud computing capacity requirements and we experience significant strains on our data center and cloud computing capacity, we may experience delays and additional expenses in arranging new data center and cloud computing arrangements, and our customers could experience service outages that may subject us to financial liabilities, result in customer losses and dissatisfaction, and materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The market in which we participate is new and rapidly evolving, and if we do not compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The market for Unified-CXM solutions is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or enterprise requirements. With the introduction of new technologies, the evolution of our Unified-CXM platform and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our Unified-CXM platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any one of which could harm our business. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. While we do not believe that any of our competitors currently offer a full suite of Unified-CXM solutions that competes across the breadth of our Unified-CXM platform, certain features of our Unified-CXM platform compete in particular segments of the overall Unified-CXM category. Our main competitors include, among others, experience management solutions, including solution media solutions, home-grown solutions and tools, adjacent Unified-CXM solutions, such as social messaging, customer care and support solutions, traditional marketing, advertising and consulting firms and customer relationship management and enterprise resource planning solutions. Further, other established SaaS providers and other technology companies not currently focused on Unified-CXM may expand their services to compete with us. Many of our current and potential competitors benefit from competitive advantages over us, including: greater name and brand recognition; 22 longer operating histories; deeper product development expertise; greater market penetration; larger and more established customer bases and relationships; larger sales forces and more established networks; larger marketing budgets; and access to significantly greater financial, human, technical and other resources. Some of our competitors may be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price than we can or do, including by integrating or bundling such products with their other product offerings. Additionally, some potential customers, particularly large organizations, have elected, and may in the future elect, to develop their own internal Unified-CXM solutions. Acquisitions, partnerships and consolidation in our industry may provide our competitors even more resources or may increase the likelihood of our competitors offering bundled or integrated products that we may not be able to effectively compete against. In particular, as we rely on the availability and accuracy of various forms of customer feedback and input data, the acquisition of any such data providers or sources by our competitors could affect our ability to continue accessing such data. Furthermore, we are also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to collect and process experience data, or otherwise develop Unified-CXM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently or with functionality and features enterprises prefer to ours, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are not able to effectively develop platform enhancements, introduce new products or keep pace with technological developments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new customers and increase revenue from our existing customers, we will need to enhance and improve our existing platform and introduce new products, features and functionality. Enhancements and new products that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain errors or defects and may have interoperability difficulties with our Unified-CXM platform or other products. We have in the past experienced delays in our internally planned release dates of new products, features and functionality, and there can be no assurance that these developments will be released according to schedule. We also have invested, and may continue to invest, in the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies that we believe will enhance our Unified-CXM platform. However, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully develop, acquire or integrate new products, features and functionality or enhance our existing platform to meet the needs of our existing or potential customers in a timely and effective manner, or if a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or with the technical support services rendered, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Artificial intelligence serves a key role in many of our services. As with many technological innovations, artificial intelligence presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. Artificial intelligence presents emerging ethical issues and if we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Potential government regulation in the space of artificial intelligence ethics also may increase the burden and cost of research and development in this area, subjecting us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Failure to address artificial intelligence ethics issues by us or others in our industry could undermine public confidence in artificial intelligence and slow adoption of artificial intelligence in our products and services. In addition, because our Unified-CXM platform is designed to operate on a variety of networks, applications, systems and devices, we will need to continually modify and enhance our Unified-CXM platform to keep pace with technological advancements in such networks, applications, systems and devices. If we are unable to respond in a timely, user-friendly and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our Unified-CXM platform may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with partners who provide access to data that enhances our Unified-CXM platforms artificial intelligence capabilities, and any failure to do so may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the continued availability of data provided by our data partners, which is central to our value proposition and the viability of our services. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain necessary data licenses on commercially reasonable terms. 23 This is especially the case when our partners offerings are integrated with our products and services, or where their offerings are difficult to substitute or replace. We anticipate that we will continue to enter into these kinds of licensing arrangements in the future. It is possible, however, that licenses we desire will not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If any of our key data partnerships or data partners fail, lapse, terminate, are not renewed or are interrupted, or we otherwise lose key licenses or are unable to enter into new licenses that we deem important, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our ability to serve particular customers is also enhanced when such customers upload their own first-party data. Our operation of our Unified-CXM platform and access to data could be negatively affected if, due to legal, contractual, privacy, market optics, competition or other economic concerns, third parties cease entering into data integration agreements with us or customers cease uploading their data to our Unified-CXM platform. Additionally, we could terminate relationships with our data suppliers if they fail to adhere to our data quality and privacy standards. Additionally, if we fail to comply with any of the obligations under our license agreements, we may be required to pay damages and the applicable licensor may have the right to terminate the license. Termination by our licensors would cause us to lose valuable rights and could prevent us from selling our products and services or inhibit our ability to commercialize future products and services. In addition, the agreements under which we license data or technology from third parties are generally complex, and certain provisions in such agreements may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement. If we were to lose access to significant amounts of the data that enables our people-based framework, our ability to provide products and services to our customers could be materially and adversely impacted, which could be materially adverse to our business, operating results and financial condition. If we were to lose access to significant amounts of the data that enables our people-based framework, our ability to provide products and services to our customers could be materially and adversely impacted, which could be materially adverse to our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and growth depend in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, as well as on the continued availability and quality of feedback data from third parties over whom we do not have control. We depend on, and anticipate that we will continue to depend on, various third-party relationships in order to sustain and grow our business, including technology companies whose products integrate with ours. Failure of any of these technology companies to maintain, support or secure their technology platforms in general, and our integrations in particular, or errors or defects in their technologies or products, could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, damage our brand and reputation and result in delays or difficulties in our ability to provide our Unified-CXM platform. We also rely on the availability and accuracy of various forms of client feedback and input data, including data solicited via survey or based on data sources across modern channels, and any changes in the availability or accuracy of such data could adversely impact our business and results of operations and harm our reputation and brand. In some cases, we rely on negotiated agreements with social media networks and other data providers. These negotiated agreements may provide increased access to application programming interfaces (APIs) and data that allow us to provide a more comprehensive solution for our customers. These agreements are subject to termination in certain circumstances, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew those agreements or that the terms of any such renewal, including pricing and levels of service, will be favorable. We cannot accurately predict the potential impact of the termination of any of our agreements with social media networks and other data providers, including the impact on our access to the related APIs. There can be no assurance that following any such termination we would be able to maintain the current level of functionality of our platform in such circumstances, as a result of more limited access to APIs or otherwise, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to enter into new negotiated agreements with data providers in the future to maintain or enhance the level of functionality of our platform, or that the terms and conditions of such agreements, including pricing and levels of service, will not be less favorable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In particular, Twitter provides us with certain data that supports our Unified-CXM platform pursuant to an agreement that expires on February 28, 2025. If our agreement with Twitter expires, is not renewed on the same or similar terms or at all, or if it is terminated for our failure to perform our obligations thereunder, we may not be able to provide the same level of Unified-CXM insights to our customers and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with strategic third parties such as systems integrators, implementation, software and technology and consulting partners, servicing subcontractors and data providers requires significant time and resources. Furthermore, integrating third-party technology is complex, costly and time-consuming and increases the risk of defects or errors on our Unified-CXM platform and our Unified-CXM platforms functionality. Our agreements with technology partners, implementation providers, servicing subcontractors and data providers are typically limited in duration, non-exclusive and do not prohibit our partners from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their solutions or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform. We rely on our ecosystem of partners to support our cost structure. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these strategic third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our results of operations would suffer. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these relationships, we cannot assure you that they will result in improved results of operations. 24 We depend and rely upon SaaS technologies from third parties to operate our business, and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely heavily on hosted SaaS applications from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including billing and order management, financial accounting services, enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, human resources management and customer support. If these services become unavailable or lose certain functionalities that we depend on, due to extended outages, interruptions, disruptions, errors or defects, acquisitions or integration into other solutions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our Unified-CXM platform and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business. Any failure to offer high-quality customer service and support may adversely affect our relationships with our existing and prospective customers, and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. In implementing and using our Unified-CXM platform, our customers depend on our customer service and support, including premium support offerings, which in some cases may be provided by third-party partners, to resolve complex technical and operational issues in a timely manner. We, or our partners, may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in demand for customer or product support. We also may be unable to modify the nature, scope and delivery of our professional services or customer and product support to compete with changes in solutions provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales are highly dependent on our reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer or product support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality enterprise or product support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our Unified-CXM platform, and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Indemnification provisions in various subscription agreements to which we are party potentially expose us to substantial liability for infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection and other losses. Our agreements with our customers and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to such third party for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services, platform, our acts or omissions under such agreements or other contractual obligations. In addition, customers typically require us to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for breach of confidentiality or failure to implement adequate security measures with respect to their data stored, transmitted or processed by our Unified-CXM platform. Some of these indemnity agreements provide for uncapped liability and indemnity provisions often survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. We have in the past and may in the future receive indemnification requests from our customers related to such claims. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability with respect to such indemnity obligations, we are not always successful and may still incur substantial liability related to them, and we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our Unified-CXM platform or products as a result of any such claims. Any dispute with a customer or other third party with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with such customer or other third party and other existing or prospective customers, reduce demand for our products and services and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging compromises of customer data, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The majority of our customer base consists of large enterprises, and we currently generate a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of enterprises, the loss of any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our top 10 customers accounted for 14% and 19% of our subscription revenue in fiscal years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The majority of our customer base consists of large enterprises, many of which have high subscription amounts to our Unified-CXM platform. For all periods presented, we have relied on sales of our Unified-CXM platform to large enterprises for a significant majority of our revenue. Accordingly, the loss of any one of our customers could have a relatively higher impact on our business and results of operations than the loss of a client in businesses that have a broader client base where each client contributes to a smaller portion of revenue. While we expect that the revenue from our largest customers will decrease over time as a percentage of our total revenue as we generate more revenue from other customers, we also believe that revenue from our largest customers may continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue, at least in the near term. In the event that these large customers 25 discontinue the use of our Unified-CXM platform or use our Unified-CXM platform in a more limited capacity, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Real or perceived defects or errors on our platform could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to sell subscriptions to our platform and related services. The software underlying our platform is complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new features or capabilities are released. In addition, our solution depends on the ability of our software to store, retrieve, process and manage immense amounts of data, including personal data. Any real or perceived defects, errors, failures, bugs or vulnerabilities on our Unified-CXM platform could result in negative publicity, cybersecurity breaches and other data security, privacy, access, retention issues, performance issues and customer terminations and may impair our ability to sell subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform and related services in the future. Some errors, bugs or vulnerabilities inherently may be difficult to detect and may only be discovered after code has been released for external or internal use. The costs incurred in correcting any defects in our Unified-CXM platform may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we may need to expend significant financial and development resources to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities. Although we continually test our Unified-CXM platform for defects and work with customers through our customer support organization to identify and correct errors, we have from time to time found defects or errors on our Unified-CXM platform, and defects or errors on our Unified-CXM platform are likely to occur again in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our Unified-CXM platform or other performance issues could result in, among other things: lost revenue or delayed market acceptance and sales of our Unified-CXM platform; early termination of customer agreements or loss of customers; credits or refunds to customers; product liability lawsuits and other claims against us; diversion of development resources; increased expenses associated with remedying any defect, including increased technical support costs; injury to our brand and reputation; and increased maintenance and warranty costs. While our customer agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that purport to limit our liability for damages related to defects in our solution, such limitations and disclaimers may not be enforced by a court or other tribunal or otherwise effectively protect us from such claims. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or other similar outbreaks. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic or pandemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19, including variants of COVID-19, has reached across the globe, resulting in the implementation of significant governmental measures, including lockdowns, closures, quarantines, occupancy limits and travel bans intended to control the spread of the virus. We have adjusted our policies to allow our New York City headquarters employees to work remotely on an optional basis, which may lead to decreased workforce productivity and business disruptions. We have had to expend, and expect to continue to expend, significant time, attention, and resources to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated global economic uncertainty, including to develop and implement internal policies and procedures and track changes in laws and government guidelines and restrictions. The remote working environment may also create increased vulnerability to cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, which could damage our reputation and commercial relationships. Over time, such remote operations may decrease the cohesiveness of our teams and our ability to maintain our culture, both of which are critical to our success. Additionally, a remote working environment could negatively impact our marketing efforts, our ability to enter into customer and business development contracts in a timely manner, our international expansion efforts, and our ability to recruit and retain employees across the organization . To the extent that these restrictions remain in place or are reinstated, additional prevention and mitigation measures are implemented in the future, or there is uncertainty about the effectiveness of these or any other measures to contain or treat COVID-19, there potentially could be an adverse impact on global economic conditions, which could materially and adversely impact our customers through reduced consumer demand for their products and services, which could in turn negatively impact our customers willingness 26 to enter into or renew contracts with us. For example, certain of our hospitality clients initially reduced their level of service with us as a result of reduced consumer demand for their services. The pandemic also may adversely affect our employees, and our employees productivity. The direct effect of the virus and the disruption on our employees and operations, the spread of variants of COVID-19, and the slow rollout-of mass vaccinations for COVID-19 may materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. While at this time we are working to manage and mitigate potential disruptions to our operations, the fluid nature of the pandemic and uncertainties regarding the related economic impact are likely to result in sustained market turmoil, which may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict how the COVID-19 pandemic, including with respect to variants of COVID-19, will continue to develop, whether and to what extent government regulations or other restrictions may impact our operations or those of our customers, or whether or to what extent the COVID-19 pandemic or the effects thereof may have longer term unanticipated impacts on our business. The extent of COVID-19s effect on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration, spread and intensity of the pandemic, all of which are uncertain and difficult to predict considering the rapidly evolving landscape. As a result, it is not currently possible to ascertain the overall impact of COVID-19 on our business. However, if the pandemic continues to persist as a severe worldwide health crisis, the disease may harm our business, and also may have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and share price. The global economy, including credit and financial markets, has experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, increases in inflation rates, higher interest rates and uncertainty about economic stability. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in widespread unemployment, economic slowdown and extreme volatility in the capital markets. Similarly, Russias recent military invasion of Ukraine has created extreme volatility in the global capital markets and is expected to have further global economic consequences, including disruptions of the global supply chain and energy markets. Any such volatility and disruptions may have adverse consequences on us or the third parties on whom we rely. If the equity and credit markets deteriorate, including as a result of political unrest or war, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult to obtain in a timely manner or on favorable terms, more costly or more dilutive. Increased inflation rates can adversely affect us by increasing our costs, including labor and employee benefit costs. In addition, higher inflation also could increase our customers operating costs, which could result in reduced marketing budgets for our customers and potentially less demand for our platform. Any significant increases in inflation and related increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our management team and key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends substantially on the continued services of our management team, including our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ragy Thomas, who are critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture, services and technology. From time to time, there may be additional changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. New hires also require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Furthermore, we do not have employment agreements with members of our management team or other key employees that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executives or key employees, or the failure by our executives to effectively work with our employees and lead our company, could have an adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers, including Mr. Thomas. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these individuals in locations where we maintain offices is intense, especially for hiring experienced software engineers and sales professionals. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Furthermore, we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. Finally, we and certain of our competitors and peers within our industry, and firms more generally, have experienced greater than usual employee turnover in recent years. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to identify, retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. 27 Certain of our results of operations and financial metrics may be difficult to predict. Our results of operations and financial metrics, including the levels of our revenue, gross margin, profitability, cash flow and deferred revenue, have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly in the future. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and, as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in results of operations may negatively impact the value of our Class A common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our results of operations include, without limitation, those listed below: variability in our sales cycle, including as a result of the budgeting cycles and internal purchasing priorities of our customers; the payment terms and subscription term length associated with sales of our Unified-CXM platform and their effect on our bookings and free cash flow; the addition or loss of large customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; the timing of sales and recognition of revenue, which may vary as a result of changes in accounting rules and interpretations; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; network outages or actual or perceived security breaches or other incidents; general economic, market and political conditions; customer renewal rates; increases or decreases in the number of elements of our services or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; the mix of services sold during a period; the timing of our recognition of stock-based compensation expense for our equity awards, particularly in cases where awards covering a large number of our shares are tied to a specific event or date; and the timing and success of introductions of new platform features and services by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners. The cumulative effects of the factors discussed above could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual results of operations. This variability and unpredictability also could result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry or financial analysts or investors for any period. If our revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any guidance we may provide, or if the guidance we provide is below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even if we have met any previously publicly stated guidance we may provide. 28 We invest significantly in research and development, and, to the extent that our research and development investments do not translate into new solutions or material enhancements to our current solutions or we do not use those investments efficiently, our business and results of operations would be harmed. A key element of our strategy is to invest significantly in our research and development efforts to improve and develop new technologies, features and functionality for our Unified-CXM platform. For each of the years ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, our research and development expenses were at least 10% of our revenue. If we do not spend our research and development budget efficiently or effectively, our business may be harmed and we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategy. Moreover, research and development projects can be technically challenging, time-consuming and expensive. The nature of these research and development cycles may cause us to experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with research and development and the time we are able to offer compelling platform updates and generate revenue, if any, from such investment. Additionally, anticipated enterprise demand for a solution or solutions we are developing could decrease after the development cycle has commenced, and we would nonetheless be unable to avoid substantial costs associated with the development of any such solutions or solution. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction or improvement of solutions that are competitive in our current or future markets, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may fail to accurately predict the optimal pricing strategies necessary to attract new customers, retain existing customers and respond to changing market conditions. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to change our pricing model from time to time. As the market for our Unified-CXM platform matures, or as competitors introduce new solutions that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same prices or based on the same pricing models that we have used historically. While we do and will attempt to set prices based on our prior experiences and customer feedback, our assessments may not be accurate and we could be underpricing or overpricing our Unified-CXM platform and professional services. In addition, if the offerings on our Unified-CXM platform or our professional services change, then we may need to revise our pricing strategies. Any such changes to our pricing strategies or our ability to efficiently price our offerings could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we expand internationally, we also must determine the appropriate pricing strategy to enable us to compete effectively internationally. Pricing pressures and decisions could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our Unified-CXM platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could negatively impact our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, larger organizations, which are a primary focus of our direct sales efforts, may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, we may be required to price below our targets in the future, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our Unified-CXM platform. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our Unified-CXM platform will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand and manage our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force and on our marketing efforts to obtain new customers. We are expanding our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales professionals with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we currently or may in the future require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of qualified and experienced sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales segments and new industries or geographies. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets and segments in which we do business. Because we do not have a long history of expanding our sales force or managing a sales force at the scale that we intend to operate, we cannot accurately predict whether, or to what extent, our sales will increase as we expand our sales force or how long it will take for sales personnel to become productive. Furthermore, due to our limited experience selling direct to mid-sized enterprises through our sales force, the results of any such efforts are difficult to predict and may result in diverted financial and management resources without a corresponding increase in revenue. Our business will be harmed if our sales expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue. Our sales cycle with enterprise and international clients can be long and unpredictable. A substantial portion of our business is with large and international enterprises. The timing of our sales with our enterprise and international clients and related revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for these clients. We often are required to spend significant time and resources to educate and familiarize these potential clients with the value proposition of paying for our Unified-CXM platform. The length of our sales cycle for these clients, from initial evaluation to payment for our Unified-CXM platform, is often around nine months or more, and can vary substantially from client to client. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed. 29 If we are unable to effectively operate on or capture data from mobile devices, our business could be adversely affected. Our customers and users of our Unified-CXM platform are increasingly accessing our Unified-CXM platform or interacting via mobile devices. We are devoting valuable resources to solutions related to mobile usage, but we cannot assure you that these solutions will be successful. If the mobile solutions we have developed for our Unified-CXM platform do not meet the needs of current or prospective customers, or if our solutions are difficult to access, customers or users may reduce their usage of our Unified-CXM platform or cease using our Unified-CXM platform altogether and our business could suffer. Additionally, we are dependent on the interoperability of our products with popular mobile networks and standards that we do not control, and any changes in such systems or terms of service that degrade our Unified-CXM platforms functionality or gives preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect our business. As new mobile devices and products are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges we may encounter in enhancing our Unified-CXM platform for use on such devices. If we are unable to successfully implement elements of our Unified-CXM platform on mobile devices, or if these strategies are not as successful as our offerings for personal computers or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with channel partners, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we primarily have relied on our direct sales force, online marketing and word-of-mouth to sell subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform. Although we have developed relationships with certain channel partners, such as referral partners, resellers and integration partners, these channels have resulted in limited revenue to date. We believe that continued growth in our business is dependent upon identifying, developing and maintaining strategic relationships with additional channel partners that can drive additional revenue. Our agreements with our existing channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer enterprises the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. They also may cease marketing our Unified-CXM platform with limited notice and with little or no penalty. We expect that any additional channel partners we identify and develop will be similarly non-exclusive and not bound by any requirement to continue to market our Unified-CXM platform. If we fail to identify additional channel partners in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, if we are unable to assist our current and future channel partners in independently selling and implementing our Unified-CXM platform, or if our channel partners choose to use greater efforts to market their own products or those of our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our Unified-CXM platform, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business also may be adversely affected. Sales by channel partners are more likely than direct sales to involve collection issues, in particular sales by our channel partners into developing markets, and, accordingly, variations in the mix between revenue attributable to sales by channel partners and revenue attributable to direct sales may result in fluctuations in our results of operations. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation as a differentiated and category-defining company in Unified-CXM is critical to our relationships with our existing customers and key employees and to our ability to attract new customers and talented personnel. The successful promotion of our brand depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, our ability to continue to develop a high-quality platform, our ability to provide reliable services that continue to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to maintain our customers trust and our ability to successfully differentiate our Unified-CXM platform from competitive solutions, which we may not be able to do effectively. We do not have sufficient operating history to know whether our brand promotion activities will ultimately be successful or yield increased revenue, and, if they are not successful, our business may be adversely affected. Any unfavorable publicity of our business or platform generally, for example, relating to our privacy practices, terms of service, service quality, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our employees, partners or customers or the actions of other companies that provide similar solutions to us, all of which can be difficult to predict, could adversely affect our reputation and brand. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our Unified-CXM platform, as well as solutions offered by our competitors, and our brand and perception of our Unified-CXM platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive compared to those of our competitors solutions, our brand and market position may be adversely affected. It also may be difficult to maintain and enhance our brand as we expand our marketing and sales efforts through channel or strategic partners. The promotion of our brand also requires us to make substantial expenditures. We anticipate that these expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new markets and as more sales are generated through our channel partners. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, this revenue may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand or incur substantial expenses in unsuccessful attempts to promote and maintain our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors and we could lose customers and key employees or fail to attract potential customers or talented personnel, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 We recognize revenue over the term of our customers contracts. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations and may be difficult to discern. We generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the terms of their contracts and a majority of our revenue is derived from subscriptions that have terms of one to three years. As a result, a portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter may have a small impact on our revenue results for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our Unified-CXM platform and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of expansion or retention may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We also may be unable to reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is recognized over the term of the agreements with our customers. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our customers may fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of their agreements, at times necessitating action by us to attempt to compel payment. We typically enter into annual or multiple year arrangements with our customers. If our customers fail to pay us in accordance with the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our agreements, including litigation and arbitration costs. The risk of these issues increases with the term length of our customer arrangements. Furthermore, some of our customers may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our results of operations may be difficult to predict as a result of seasonality. Our results of operations also may fluctuate as a result of seasonality. We have seen seasonality in our sales cycle, as a large percentage of our customers make their purchases in the fourth quarter of a given fiscal year and pay us in the first quarter of the subsequent year. We also may be affected by seasonal trends in the future, particularly as our business matures. Such seasonality may result from a number of factors, including a slowdown in our customers procurement process during certain times of the year, both domestically and internationally, and customers choosing to spend remaining budgets shortly before the end of their fiscal years. Additionally, this seasonality may be reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes may not be immediately apparent, in our revenue, due to the fact that we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable subscription agreement. To the extent that we experience this seasonality, it may cause fluctuations in our results of operations and financial metrics and make forecasting our future results of operations and financial metrics more difficult. Indemnity and other provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to such third parties for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violation, damages caused by us to property or persons or other liabilities relating to or arising from our Unified-CXM platform or our acts or omissions. We have in the past and may in the future receive indemnification requests from our customers related to such claims. In addition, customers typically require us to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for breach of confidentiality or failure to implement adequate security measures with respect to their data stored, transmitted or processed by our Unified-CXM platform. The terms of these contractual provisions often survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments or damage claims from contractual breach could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit the scope of our liability with respect to such obligations, we are not always successful and we may incur substantial liability related to them. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other current and prospective customers, reduce demand for our Unified-CXM platform and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our customer agreements contain provisions permitting the customer to become a party to, or a beneficiary of, a source code escrow agreement under which we place the proprietary source code for certain of our solutions in escrow with a third party. Under these source code escrow agreements, our source code may be released to the customer upon the occurrence of specified events, such as in situations of our bankruptcy or insolvency or our failure to support or maintain our solutions. Disclosing the content of our source code may limit the intellectual property protection we can obtain or maintain for our source code or our solutions containing that source code and may facilitate intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violation claims against us. 31 Following any such release, we cannot be certain that customers will comply with the restrictions on their use of the source code and we may be unable to monitor and prevent unauthorized disclosure of such source code by customers. Additionally, following any such release, customers may be able to create derivative works based on our source code and may own such derivative works. Any increase in the number of people familiar with our source code as a result of any such release also may increase the risk of a successful hacking attempt. Each of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to integrate our Unified-CXM platform with a variety of software applications, operating systems, platforms, and hardware that are developed by others, our Unified-CXM platform may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our Unified-CXM platform must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software systems and we need to continuously modify and enhance our Unified-CXM platform to adapt to changes in hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. In particular, we have developed our Unified-CXM platform to be able to easily integrate with certain third-party SaaS applications through the interaction of APIs. In general, we rely on the fact that the providers of such software systems continue to allow us access to their APIs to enable these customer integrations. To date, we have not relied on a long-term written contract to govern our relationship with these providers. Instead, we are subject to the standard terms and conditions for application developers of such providers, which govern the distribution, operation and fees of such software systems, and which are subject to change by such providers from time to time. If we are unable to effectively integrate with third-party systems, our customers operations may be disrupted, which could result in disputes with customers, negatively impact customer satisfaction and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our managements attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our Unified-CXM platform and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. We have in the past, and we may in the future, attempt to do so through strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets that we believe could complement, expand or enhance our Unified-CXM platform or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our Unified-CXM platform, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Any acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our Unified-CXM platform or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. Acquisitions, investments or other business relationships also may disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. Identifying and negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of these transactions. Our prior acquisitions have been relatively small, and we are relatively inexperienced in effectively implementing another business with our own. Consequently, these transactions, even if announced, may not be completed. The risks we face in connection with these transactions include: the issuance of additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders and adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock; the use of substantial portions of our available cash and other resources that we may need in the future to operate our business; issuance of large charges or substantial liabilities; diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; lack of or insufficient security, intellectual property, and privacy controls within entities involved in these transactions, leading to cascading failures in our own portfolio; issuance of debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; 32 harm to our existing relationships with customers and partners as a result of the transaction; claims and disputes from stockholders and third parties, including intellectual property and data privacy claims and disputes; difficulties retaining key employees or customers of the acquired business or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation deferred compensation charges or other unfavorable accounting treatment. The occurrence of any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our entry into any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may be prohibited by the terms of our credit facilities. In March 2020, we entered into the Waiver and Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, as amended (the SVB Credit Facility), with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB). The SVB Credit Facility restricts our ability to pursue certain mergers, acquisitions, amalgamations or consolidations that we may believe to be in our best interest. Our international sales and operations, including our planned business development activities outside of the United States, subject us to additional risks and challenges that can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the year ended January 31, 2022, approximately 36% of our sales were to customers outside of the Americas. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to continue to expand our international operations, which may include opening additional offices in new jurisdictions and providing our Unified-CXM platform in additional languages and on-boarding new customers outside the United States. Any new markets or countries into which we attempt to sell subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform may not be receptive to our business development activities. We currently have sales personnel and sales and customer and product support operations in the United States and certain countries across Europe, the Asia Pacific region and the Americas. We believe that our ability to attract new customers to our Unified-CXM platform and to convince existing customers to renew or expand their use of our Unified-CXM platform is directly correlated to the level of engagement we achieve with our customers in their home countries. To the extent that we are unable to effectively engage with non-U.S. customers, we may be unable to effectively grow in international markets. Our international operations also subject us to a variety of additional risks and challenges, including: increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having operations and developing our business in multiple jurisdictions; providing our Unified-CXM platform and operating our business across a significant distance, in different languages, among different cultures and time zones, including the potential need to modify our Unified-CXM platform and products to ensure that they are culturally appropriate and relevant in different countries; compliance with non-U.S. data privacy, protection and security laws, rules and regulations, including data localization requirements, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; longer payment cycles and difficulties enforcing agreements, collecting accounts receivable or satisfying revenue recognition criteria, especially in emerging markets; hiring, training, motivating and retaining highly-qualified personnel, while maintaining our unique corporate culture; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; longer sales cycle and more time required to educate enterprises on the benefits of our Unified-CXM platform outside of the United States; requirements or preferences for domestic products; limitations on our ability to sell our Unified-CXM platform and for our solution to be effective in non-U.S. markets that have different cultural norms and related business practices that de-emphasize the importance of positive customer and employee experiences; differing technical standards, existing or future regulatory and certification requirements and required features and functionality; political and economic conditions and uncertainty in each country or region in which we operate and general economic and political conditions and uncertainty around the world; 33 changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, including in the United Kingdom as a result of the United Kingdom exiting the European Union; compliance with laws and regulations for non-U.S. operations, including anti-bribery laws, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our Unified-CXM platform and develop our business in certain non-U.S. markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact our financial condition and result in restatements of our consolidated financial statements; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact our financial condition and result in restatements of our consolidated financial statements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related effects on our results of operations; difficulties in repatriating or transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; communication and integration problems related to entering new markets with different languages, cultures and political systems; new and different sources of competition; differing labor standards, including restrictions related to, and the increased cost of, terminating employees in some countries; the need for localized subscription agreements; the need for localized language support and difficulties associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English; increased reliance on channel partners; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain non-U.S. countries and practical difficulties of obtaining, maintaining, protecting and enforcing such rights abroad; and compliance with the laws of numerous foreign taxing jurisdictions, including withholding tax obligations, and overlapping of different tax regimes. Any of these risks and challenges could adversely affect our operations, reduce our revenue or increase our operating costs, each of which could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States and thereby our business more generally, as well as our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations substantially increases our cost of doing business. We may be unable to keep current with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could have adverse effects on our business. In many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. or other regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or our policies by our employees, contractors, partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions, other collateral consequences and increased costs, including the costs associated with defending against such actions, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our Unified-CXM platform and related services, each of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 We believe that our success depends on continuing to invest in the growth of our worldwide operations by entering new geographic markets. If our investments in these markets are greater than anticipated, or if our customer growth or sales in these markets do not meet our expectations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends on expanding our business into new geographic markets and attracting customers in countries other than the United States. We anticipate continuing to expand our operations worldwide and have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments and incur substantial costs as we enter new geographic markets. This includes investments in data centers, cloud-based infrastructure and applications and other information technology investments, sales, marketing and administrative personnel and facilities. Often we must make these investments when it is still unclear whether future sales in the new market will justify the costs of these investments. In addition, these investments may be more expensive than we initially anticipate. If our investments are greater than we initially anticipate or if our customer growth or sales in these markets do not meet our expectations or justify the cost of the initial investments, our results of operations and financial condition may be adverse affected. Disputes with our customers and other third parties could be costly, time-consuming and harmful to our business and reputation. Our business requires us to enter into agreements with a large number of customers and other third parties in many different jurisdictions. Our subscription and other agreements contain a variety of terms, including service level requirements, data privacy, protection and security obligations, indemnification obligations, including for intellectual property infringement claims, dispute resolution procedures and regulatory requirements. Agreement terms may not be standardized across our business and can be subject to differing interpretations and local law requirements, which could result in disputes with our customers and other third parties from time to time. If our customers and other third parties notify us of a breach of contract or otherwise dispute the terms of our agreements, the dispute resolution process can be expensive and time-consuming and result in the diversion of resources that could otherwise be deployed to grow our business. Even if these disputes are resolved in our favor, we may be unable to recoup the expenses and other diverted resources committed to resolving the dispute and, if we receive negative publicity in connection with the dispute, our reputation and brand may be harmed. Furthermore, the ultimate resolution of such disputes may be adverse to our interests and, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and if foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our results of operations and financial condition, which are reported in U.S. dollars, could be adversely affected. We conduct our business in countries around the world and a portion of our transactions outside the United States are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. While we have primarily transacted with customers and vendors in U.S. dollars to date, from time to time we have transacted in foreign currencies for subscriptions to our Unified-CXM platform and may significantly expand the number of transactions with customers that are denominated in foreign currencies in the future. The majority of our international costs are also denominated in local currencies. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain net assets or liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our revenue and results of operations due to transactional and translational remeasurements that are reflected in our results of operations. As a result of such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. We currently do not maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies, but intend to so in the near future. The future use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our exposure to currency exchange rate risks, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 35 The terms of the SVB Credit Facility require us to meet certain operating and financial covenants and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the terms of any new debt could further restrict our ability to operate our business. Under the terms of the SVB Credit Facility, we can borrow up to $50.0 million under a revolving credit loan facility. The SVB Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that either limit our ability to, or, if we make future draws, require a mandatory prepayment in the event we, incur additional indebtedness and liens, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, acquire other companies, engage in new lines of business, make certain investments, pay dividends, transfer or dispose of assets, amend certain material agreements and enter into various specified transactions. As a result, we may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of our lender or prepay any outstanding amount under the SVB Credit Facility. The SVB Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants, including minimum revenue and cash balance requirements, and financial reporting requirements. Our obligations under the SVB Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our property, with limited exceptions, including our intellectual property. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or sales to meet our financial covenants or, if we make future draws, pay the principal and interest under the SVB Credit Facility. Furthermore, if we made a subsequent draw, our future working capital, borrowings or equity financings could be unavailable to repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under the SVB Credit Facility. In the event of a liquidation, our lenders would be repaid all outstanding principal and interest prior to distribution of assets to unsecured creditors, and the holders of our common stock would receive a portion of any liquidation proceeds only if all of our creditors, including our lenders, were first repaid in full. Any declaration by our lender of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. As of January 31, 2022, we did not owe any principal or accrued interest under the SVB Credit Facility. However, it is possible that we will in the future draw down on the SVB Credit Facility or enter into new debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance such debt obligations depends on numerous factors, including the amount of our cash balances and our actual and projected financial and operating performance. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash balances or cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and even if we are, these actions may be insufficient to permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in the event of our breach of the SVB Credit Facility, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts earlier than anticipated. If for any reason we become unable to service our debt obligations under the SVB Credit Facility, or any new debt obligations that we may enter into from time to time, holders of our common stock would be exposed to the risk that their holdings could be lost in an event of a default under such debt obligations and a foreclosure and sale of our assets for an amount that is less than the outstanding debt. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the economy more generally or reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the economy more generally on us or our customers and potential customers. This risk is presently heightened by the uncertain economic impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Our business and results of operations depend on demand for information technology generally and for Unified-CXM solutions in particular, which in turn is influenced by the scale of business that our customers are conducting. Weak economic conditions, either in the United States or internationally, including resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, international trade relations, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), political turmoil, natural disasters or catastrophes or geopolitical tensions, such as Russias recent incursion into Ukraine, could cause a decrease in business investments, including spending on information technology generally. To the extent that weak economic conditions cause our existing customers or potential customers to reduce their budget for Unified-CXM solutions or to perceive spending on such systems as discretionary, demand for our Unified-CXM platform may be adversely affected. Moreover, customers and potential customers may require extended billing terms and other financial concessions, which would limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure, enterprise applications, internal technology systems, and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services and sales activities. In the event of a catastrophic event, including a natural disaster such as an earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood, tsunami or tornado, or other catastrophic event such as power loss, market manipulation, civil unrest, supply chain disruptions, armed conflict, computer or telecommunications failure, cybersecurity issues, human error, improper operation, unauthorized entry, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, war, terrorist attack or incident of mass violence in any geography where our operations or data centers are located or where certain other systems and applications that we rely on are hosted, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure significant system degradations, disruptions, destruction of critical assets, reputational harm, delays in our application development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. We also rely on our employees and key personnel to meet the demands of our customers and run our day-to-day operations. In the event of a catastrophic event, the functionality of our employees could be negatively impacted, which could have an 36 adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, natural disasters, cybersecurity attacks, market manipulations, supply chain disruptions, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events could cause disruptions in our or our customers businesses, national economies or the world economy as a whole. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. Building a culture where everyone is happier and can thrive personally and professionally is the cornerstone of our philosophy. We create an environment of happier employees by building a values-based culture with rich communications, manager and employee action planning, competitive pay and benefits, and a culture where everyone feels like they belong and are valued. We recruit, retain and invest in the development of the best talent in the world. Externally, we have been recognized as a best place to work by several national media outlets. As our organization grows and evolves, we may need to implement more complex organizational management structures or adapt our corporate culture and work environments to ever-changing circumstances, such as during times of a natural disasters or pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. These changes could have an adverse impact on our corporate culture. We also expect to continue to hire aggressively as we expand, but if we do not continue to maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we may be unable to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork that we believe we need to support our growth. Moreover, many of our employees may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our common stock in the public markets, which could lead to disparities of wealth among our employees that adversely affects relations among employees and our culture in general. Our substantial anticipated headcount growth and our transition from a private company to a public company may result in a change to our corporate culture, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our Unified-CXM platform utilizes open source software, which may subject us to litigation, require us to re-engineer our Unified-CXM platform or otherwise divert resources away from our development efforts. We use open source software in connection with our Unified-CXM platform and products and operations. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code (which may include our modifications or product code into which such open source software has been integrated) on unfavorable terms allowing further modification and redistribution and at no or nominal cost, and we may be subject to such terms. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these open source licenses could be construed in a way that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose source code that we have decided to maintain as proprietary or that would otherwise breach the terms or fail to meet the conditions of an open source license or third-party contract, such use could inadvertently occur, or could be claimed to occurred, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of or demanding release of the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the applicable open source licensing terms or alleging that our use of such software infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates a third partys intellectual property rights. We may as a result be subject to claims for breach of contract, infringement of intellectual property rights, or indemnity, required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages, royalties, or license fees or other amounts, seek licenses, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business. Any actual or claimed requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of the applicable license could harm our business and could help third parties, including our competitors, develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Additionally, the use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. There is typically no support available for open source software, and we cannot ensure that the authors of such open source software will implement or push updates to address security risks or will not abandon further development and maintenance. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title or performance, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. We have processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our developers for the use of open source software, but we cannot be sure that all open source software is identified or submitted for approval prior to use in our products and services. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 37 Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and enforce our intellectual property. As of January 31, 2022, we owned 30 U.S. issued patents and 15 pending non-provisional or provisional U.S. patent applications. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and internationally, as well as technological measures and contractual provisions, such as confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and other third parties, to establish and protect our brand, maintain our competitive position and protect our intellectual property rights from infringement, misappropriation or other violation. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or ineffective, and our intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, narrowed in scope or rendered unenforceable through administrative processes, including re-examination, inter partes review, interference and derivation proceedings and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition proceedings) or litigation. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to effectively prevent third parties from infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property or to prevent unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized use of our trade secrets or other confidential information. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will issue or be approved or that our existing and future intellectual property rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology. Additionally, effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we conduct business and we may fail to maintain or be unable to obtain adequate protections for certain of our intellectual property rights in such foreign countries. Further, intellectual property law, including statutory and case law, particularly in the United States, is constantly developing, and any changes in the law could make it harder for us to enforce our rights. Failure to comply with applicable procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar requirements with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and various similar foreign governmental agencies could result in abandonment or lapse of the affected patent, trademark or application. If this occurs, our competitors might be more successful in their efforts to compete with us. Effective protection of intellectual property rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property, technology, and confidential information in part through confidentiality, non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, corporate collaborators, advisors and other third parties who develop intellectual property on our behalf or with whom we share information. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party who has developed intellectual property on our behalf and each party that has or may have had access to our confidential information, know-how and trade secrets. These agreements may be insufficient or breached, or may not effectively prevent unauthorized access to or unauthorized use, disclosure, misappropriation or reverse engineering of, our confidential information, intellectual property, or technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be self-executing or otherwise provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other intellectual property or proprietary information. Moreover, these agreements may not provide an adequate remedy for breaches or in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information or technology or infringement of our intellectual property. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret or know-how is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect and some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets and know-how. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us, and our competitive position would be materially and adversely harmed. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and services by copying functionality. Additionally, individuals not subject to invention assignment agreements may make adverse ownership claims to our current and future intellectual property, and, to the extent that our employees, independent contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. There is also a risk that we do not establish an unbroken chain of title from inventors to us. An inventorship or ownership dispute could arise that may permit one or more third parties to practice or enforce our intellectual property rights, including possible efforts to enforce rights against us. Additionally, errors in inventorship or ownership can sometimes also impact priority claims, and if we were to lose our ability to claim priority for certain patent filings, intervening art or other events may preclude us from issuing patents. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak or inadequate. Furthermore, we may not always detect infringement, misappropriation or other violation of our intellectual property rights, and any infringement, misappropriation or other violation of our intellectual property rights, even if successfully detected, prosecuted and enjoined, could be costly to deal with and could harm our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and competing with our business, and third parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around our intellectual property and, in such cases, we may not be able to successfully assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our trade secrets or confidential information or 38 provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets or confidential information, and we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, such trade secrets, confidential information and other intellectual property rights. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, which could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property portfolio. An adverse determination of any litigation proceedings could put our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our related patents, pending patent applications and trademark filings at risk of being invalidated, not issuing or being cancelled. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential or sensitive information could be compromised by disclosure in the event of litigation. In addition, during the course of litigation there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating, or from successfully challenging, our intellectual property rights. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. Our failure to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face claims by third parties alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violation of their intellectual property, trade secrets or proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry and companies in the technology industry frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and commercialize our products and services without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. From time to time, we have received and may in the future receive claims from third parties, including our competitors, alleging that our Unified-CXM platform and underlying technology infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate such third partys intellectual property rights, including their trade secrets, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. For example, on February 25, 2022, we agreed to settle all outstanding claims with Opal Labs Inc. (Opal) with respect to Opals complaints alleging breach of contract and violation of Oregons Uniform Trade Secrets Act, among other claims, and, on March 1, 2022, the court dismissed those claims with prejudice. For more information, see Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies, Legal Matters, to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. As we face increasing competition and become increasingly high profile, the possibility of receiving a larger number of intellectual property claims against us grows. It is possible that we may be unsuccessful in such proceedings, resulting in a loss of some portion or all of our patent rights. Any claims or litigation, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial amounts in costs or damages, ongoing royalty or license fees or other payments, or could prevent us from offering all or aspects of our Unified-CXM platform or using certain technologies, require us to re-engineer all or a portion of our Unified-CXM platform, force us to implement expensive work-arounds or re-designs, distract management from our business or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. If any of our technologies, products or services are found to infringe, misappropriate or violate a third partys intellectual property rights, we may seek to obtain a license under such third partys intellectual property rights in order to bring an end to certain claims or actions asserted against us to continue commercializing or using such technologies, products and services. However, we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors and other third parties access to the same technologies licensed to us, and it could require us to make substantial licensing and royalty payments. Any litigation also may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant solution revenue, and, therefore, our patent portfolio may provide little or no deterrence, as we would not be able to assert our patents against such entities or individuals. Such non-practicing entities and other intellectual property rights holders may attempt to assert intellectual property claims against us or seek to monetize the intellectual property rights they own to extract value through licensing or other settlements. We have in the past and may in the future be requested to and/or obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses or refund subscription fees, which could further exhaust our resources. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our technology or intellectual property, with or without merit, could be unpredictable, costly and time-consuming, and divert significant resources and the attention of our management and other employees from our business operations. Such disputes also could disrupt our Unified-CXM platform and products, which would adversely impact our client satisfaction and ability to attract customers. In the case of infringement, misappropriation or other violation caused by technology that we obtain from third parties, any indemnification or other contractual 39 protections we obtain from such third parties, if any, may be insufficient to cover the liabilities we incur as a result of such infringement or misappropriation. In a patent infringement claim against us, we may assert, as a defense, that we do not infringe the relevant patent claims, that the patent is invalid or both. The strength of our defenses will depend on the patents asserted, the interpretation of these patents, and our ability to invalidate the asserted patents. However, we could be unsuccessful in advancing non-infringement or invalidity arguments in our defense. In the United States, issued patents enjoy a presumption of validity, and the party challenging the validity of a patent claim must present clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. Conversely, the patent owner need only prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence, which is a lower burden of proof. We also may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology. Because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover one or more of our products. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or violation claims against us, such payments, costs or actions could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Litigation, Regulatory Compliance and Governmental Matters We are subject to governmental export and import controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export and similar laws and regulations, including the United States Department of Commerces Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the United States Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. The U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws include restrictions or prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to certain embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. In addition, we may incorporate encryption technology into certain of our offerings, and encryption offerings and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, and we cannot guarantee that any required authorization will be obtained. If we are found to be in violation of U.S. economic sanctions or export control laws, it could result in substantial fines and penalties for us and for the individuals working for us. We also may experience other adverse effects, including reputational harm and loss of access to certain markets. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted or could enact laws that could limit our ability to provide our customers access to our Unified-CXM platform or could limit our customers ability to access or use our Unified-CXM platform in those countries. Changes in our Unified-CXM platform or future changes in export and import regulations may prevent our customers with international operations from utilizing our Unified-CXM platform globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our Unified-CXM platform to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any decreased use of our Unified-CXM platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell our Unified-CXM platform could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and other anticorruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business, both domestic and abroad. These laws generally prohibit us and our employees from improperly influencing government officials or commercial parties in order to obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or gain any advantage. The FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and other applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws also may hold us liable for acts of corruption and bribery committed by our third-party business partners, representatives and agents. In addition to our own sales force, we leverage third parties to sell our products and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party business partners, representatives and agents may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible and our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. Any violation of the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, imposition of significant legal fees, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions or suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, substantial diversion of managements attention, a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock or overall adverse consequences to our reputation and business, all of which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 40 Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in laws and regulations related to the Internet or changes in access to the Internet generally. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for communication, business applications and commerce. Federal or state government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Legislators, regulators or government bodies or agencies also may make legal or regulatory changes or interpret or apply existing laws or regulations that relate to the use of the Internet in new and materially different ways. Changes in these laws, regulations or interpretations could require us to modify our Unified-CXM platform in order to comply with these changes, to incur substantial additional costs or divert resources that could otherwise be deployed to grow our business, or expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, among other things. In addition, government agencies and private organizations have imposed, and may in the future impose, additional taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. Internet access is frequently provided by companies that have significant market power and could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of our customers use of our Unified-CXM platform, which could negatively impact our business. In December 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), voted to repeal its net neutrality Open Internet rules, effective June 2018. The rules were designed to ensure that all online content is treated the same by internet service providers and other companies that provide broadband services. The FCCs new rules, which took effect on June 11, 2018, repealed the neutrality obligations imposed by the Open Internet rules and granted providers of broadband internet access services greater freedom to make changes to their services, including, potentially, changes that may discriminate against or harm our business. A number of parties have appealed this order, which is currently being reviewed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Should the net neutrality rules be relaxed or eliminated, we could incur greater operating expenses or our customers use of our Unified-CXM platform could be adversely affected, either of which could harm our business and results of operations. These developments could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally or result in reductions in the demand for Internet-based platforms and services such as ours, increased costs to us or the disruption of our business. In addition, as the Internet continues to experience growth in the numbers of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the use of the Internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease-of-use, accessibility and quality of service. The performance of the Internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been adversely affected by data security and privacy issues, and the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other degradations as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the Internet generally, or our Unified-CXM platform specifically, is adversely affected by these or other issues, we could be forced to incur substantial costs, demand for our Unified-CXM platform could decline and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Information Technology and Cybersecurity Interruptions in availability or suboptimal performance associated with our technology and infrastructure may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We seek to use modern well-architected systems and appropriate security controls to maintain the availability of our products. These controls include business continuity and disaster recovery plans, highly redundant designs of operational systems and processes, training and availability of key employees, strong contractual and technical assurances by our third-party service providers to maintain their services to us, regular tests and audits of critical systems and plans, appropriate capacity planning for current and future system and process needs, enterprise risk management, and a continuous review of our plans. Notwithstanding these efforts, we cannot ensure that our systems or those of our third-party service providers will not be vulnerable to disruptions from natural or man-made disasters or other security incidents. We are exposed to threats and resulting risks that may result in a significant disruption of our ability to deliver our products to our customers. Our continued growth, brand, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers depend in part on the ability of our customers to access our Unified-CXM platform at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. Our Unified-CXM platform is proprietary, and we are dependent on the expertise and efforts of members of our engineering, operations and software development teams for its continued performance. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our Unified-CXM platform concurrently and denial of service attacks or other security-related incidents. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our products and services could cause customers to believe that our products and services are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our products and services. Additionally, our insurance policies may be insufficient to cover a claim made against us by any such customers affected by any errors, defects or other infrastructure problems. In some instances, we may not be able to rectify, remediate or even identify the cause or causes of these performance issues within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times, as our Unified-CXM platform becomes more complex and our user 41 traffic increases. If our Unified-CXM platform is unavailable or if users are unable to access our Unified-CXM platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Moreover, some of our customer agreements include performance guarantees and service-level standards that obligate us to provide credits or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in the functioning of our Unified-CXM platform. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems and data centers as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology or an increased user base, we may experience service interruptions and performance issues, which may result in a disruption of our products, delay the development of new products and features, result in a loss of current and future revenue, result in negative publicity and harm to our reputation, require us to pay significant penalties or fines or subject us to litigation, claims or other disputes, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to stringent and changing obligations related to data privacy and security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; loss of customers or sales; and other adverse business consequences. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, receive, store, process, generate, use, transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, transmit, and share (commonly known as processing) proprietary and confidential data, including personal data, intellectual property, and trade secrets (collectively, confidential information). Additionally, our customers can utilize our Unified-CXM platform to use, collect, manage, store, transmit and otherwise process confidential information of their employees, customers and partners. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, regulations, guidance, industry standards, external and internal privacy and security policies, contracts, and other obligations that govern the processing of confidential information by us and on our behalf. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, and consumer protection laws. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) imposes obligations on covered businesses. These obligations include, but are not limited to, providing specific disclosures in privacy notices and affording California residents certain rights related to their personal data. The CCPA allows for statutory fines for noncompliance (up to $7,500 per violation) and includes a private right of action for certain data breaches. In addition, it is anticipated that the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA), effective January 1, 2023, will expand the CCPA. Additionally, the CPRA establishes a new California Privacy Protection Agency to implement and enforce the CPRA, which could increase the risk of enforcement. Other states have enacted data privacy and security laws. For example, Virginia passed the Consumer Data Protection Act, and Colorado passed the Colorado Privacy Act, both of which become effective in 2023. While Virginia and Colorados new laws shares similarities with the CCPA and CPRA, these laws, as well as other similar state or federal laws and other future changes in laws or regulations relating to data privacy and security, particularly any new or modified laws or regulations that require enhanced protection of certain types of data or new obligations with regard to data retention, transfer or disclosure, are significant, may result in further uncertainty with respect to data privacy and security issues, and will require us to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. The enactment of such laws has prompted similar legislative developments in other states, which could create the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state laws, as certain state laws may be more stringent, broader in scope or offer greater individual rights with respect to personal data than federal, international or other state laws, which may complicate compliance efforts. The federal government is also considering comprehensive privacy legislation. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures related to the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in products and services. Furthermore, we may be subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The PCI DSS requires companies to adopt certain measures to ensure the security of cardholder information, including using and maintaining firewalls, adopting proper password protections for certain devices and software, and restricting data access. Noncompliance with PCI-DSS can result in penalties ranging from $5,000 to $100,000 per month by credit card companies, litigation, damage to our reputation, and revenue losses. Outside the United States, an increasing number of laws, regulations, and industry standards apply to data privacy and security. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), took effect in the EU on May 25, 2018. Notwithstanding the withdrawal of the United Kingdom (UK), from the EU, by operation of the so-called UK GDPR, the GDPR continues to apply in substantially equivalent form to processing operations carried out in the context of UK-related processingso, when we refer to the GDPR, we are also making reference to the UK GDPR in the context of the UK, unless the context requires otherwise. The GDPR increased covered businesses data privacy and security obligations and imposed stringent data privacy and security requirements, including, for example, detailed notices about how such businesses process personal data, the implementation of security measures, mandatory security breach notification requirements, contractual data protection requirements on data processors and limitations on the retention of records of personal data processing activities. In addition, analysis of certain concepts that are fundamental to GDPR compliance are highly complex and open to subjective interpretationparticularly so in respect of processing that occurs in complex, multi-party ecosystems such as those in which we operate our business. For example, in contexts such as these, classification of an organization as a processor, controller or joint controllerwhich is foundational to determining the nature of that organizations compliance 42 obligationsrequires a subjective analysis of the factual circumstances at hand on a case-by-case basis, which may be open to divergent and/or contradictory conclusions. If we have not, or are perceived to have not, properly determined whether we act as a processor, controller or joint controller in any given context this could require us to incur significant costs to restructure our operations and/or may result in material noncompliance with the GDPR. Noncompliance with the GDPR carries fines of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenue and can result in data processing bans and other administrative penalties, together with associated damage to our reputation. The GDPR also allows EU member states and the UK to introduce further conditions, including limitations, and make their own laws and regulations further limiting the processing of special categories of personal data, including personal data related to health, biometric data used for unique identification purposes and genetic information, which could limit our ability to collect, use and share EU or UK personal data, and could cause our compliance costs to increase. Many member states and the UK have introduced such further limitations and more could do so in the future, which could ultimately have an adverse impact on our business and harm our business and financial condition. Our efforts to maintain compliance with GDPR requirements have required significant time and resources, including a review of our technology and systems against its requirements. The application of the EUs GDPR alongside the UKs version of the GDPR exposes us to two parallel regimes, each of which potentially authorizes similar fines and other potentially divergent enforcement actions for certain violations. The relationship between the UK and the EU in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains in flux. On June 28, 2021, the European Commission adopted an adequacy finding that recognized that the UKs data protection framework, which aligns with that of the GDPR, was an adequate data protection regime to allow data transfers from the EU to the UK to continue (with the exception of data transfers for immigration control purposes). Notably, the European Commissions adequacy finding has a sunset provision, which requires review of the determination after four years. The European Commission will be monitoring the UKs data protection regime and may revoke its adequacy finding if at any point it determines that the UK has deviated from the requisite data protection level outlined in the adequacy finding. The GDPR also prohibits the transfer of personal data from the EEA and the UK to the United States and most other countries unless an approved compliance mechanism has been implemented. On July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union invalidated a primary compliance mechanism on which we relied for such transfersthe EU-U.S. Privacy Shieldand put pressure on alternative compliance mechanisms for cross-border transfers, such as Standard Contractual Clauses. In response to this decision, the European Commission released new Standard Contractual Clauses in June of 2021. These new Standard Contractual clauses are required in connection with all new contracts and new personal data operations beginning on September 27, 2021, and all existing contracts and personal data operations must be migrated to the new Standard Contractual Clauses by December of 2022. Any transfers under the GDPR that seek to rely on the European Commissions Standard Contractual Clauses or similar approved-form appropriate safeguards (such as the incoming UK International Data Transfer Agreement) require the parties to the transfer to comply with onerous obligations, such as conducting transfer impact assessments to assess the laws of the country of destination and determine whether additional measures are needed to supplement such safeguards to protect the transferred personal data effectively. This requirement and continued guidance from relevant authorities may require us to take additional steps and re-assess data handling practices in connection with these changes, or potential future litigation. We may experience hesitancy, reluctance or refusal by European or multinational enterprises to use our services due to potential risk exposure to such enterprises relating to Europes cross-border data transfer requirements. We also may be required to incur significant costs and increase our foreign data processing capabilities in an effort to comply with evolving requirements, and there is no assurance that they will be successful. Similarly, while the UK data protection regime currently permits data transfers from the UK to the EEA and other third countries covered by a European Commission adequacy decision, this is also subject to change in the future, and any such changes could have implications for our transfers of personal data from the UK. Furthermore, the UK government has now prepared certain UK specific international data transfer tools, including an International Data Transfer Agreement, which will take the place of or be needed to supplement the European Commissions Standard Contractual Clauses. The adoption of these separate tools will necessitate the implementation of one of these UK specific tools alongside the Standard Contractual Clauses, which could require significant resources and result in significant cost to implement and manage. European data privacy and security laws also require opt-in consent to send marketing emails or use cookies and similar technologies for advertising, analytics and other purposes activities on which our products and marketing strategies rely. Enforcement of these requirements has increased, and a new regulation in the European Union, known as the ePrivacy Regulation, may make these requirements, as well as requirements around tracking technologies, such as cookies, more stringent and increase the penalties for violating them. Such restrictions could increase our exposure to regulatory enforcement action, increase our compliance costs, and adversely affect our business. Existing and future laws and evolving attitudes about data privacy and security may impair our ability to collect, use, and maintain data points of sufficient type or quantity to develop and train our artificial intelligence algorithms. Jurisdictions outside of the United States, the EU, and the UK also are passing more stringent data privacy and security laws, rules and regulations with which we may be obligated to comply. For example, Brazils General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Proteo de Dados Pessoais)(LGPD) (Law No. 13,709/2018), Chinas Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), and Japans Protection of Personal Information (APPI), impose strict requirements for processing personal data. 43 We continue to see jurisdictions imposing data localization laws, which require personal data, or certain subcategories of personal data, to be stored in the jurisdiction of origin. Specifically, Russia, China and India have passed or are in the process of passing laws that impose more stringent requirements on data privacy and which have, amongst other things, more stringent data localization requirements. These regulations may inhibit our ability to expand into those markets or prohibit us from continuing to offer services and/or collaborate with partners in those markets without significant additional costs. In addition to our legal obligations, our contractual obligations relating to data privacy and security have become increasingly stringent due to changes in data privacy and security and the expansion of our service offerings. Certain data privacy and security laws, such as the GDPR and the CCPA, require our customers to impose specific contractual restrictions on their service providers. Apart from government activity and our customer contracts, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on our ability to provide our services globally. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification and other standards established by third parties, such as TRUSTe, the American Institute for Certified Public Accountants, or the International Standards Organization. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business. Business partners and other third parties with a strong influence on how consumers interact with our products, such as Apple, Google, Facebook and Mozilla, may create new privacy controls or restrictions on their products and platforms, limiting the effectiveness of our services. With laws, rules, regulations and other obligations relating to data privacy and security imposing new and stringent obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other obligations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices, and may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. Additionally, if the third parties we work with, such as our vendors or third-party service providers, violate applicable laws, rules or regulations or our policies, such violations also may put our or our customers data at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with our applicable internal and external policies or notices relating to data privacy or security, our contractual or other obligations to customers or other third parties, or any of our other legal obligations relating to data privacy or security, may result in governmental investigations or inquiries (which have occurred in the past and may occur in the future), enforcement actions, litigation, disputes or other claims, indemnification requests, restrictions on providing our services, claims or public statements against us by privacy advocacy groups or others, adverse press and widespread negative publicity, reputational damage, significant liability or fines and the loss of the trust of our customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, laws, rules, regulations and other obligations relating to data privacy and security applicable to the businesses of our customers may adversely affect our customers ability and willingness to use, collect, manage, disclose, handle, store, transmit and otherwise process information from their employees, customers and partners, which could limit the use, effectiveness and adoption of our Unified-CXM platform and reduce overall demand. Furthermore, the uncertain and shifting regulatory environment and trust climate may cause concerns regarding data privacy and may cause our customers or our customers customers to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our services effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption, effectiveness or use of our applications. Risks Related to Tax and Accounting Matters Our results of operations may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for subscriptions to our products and services in jurisdictions in which we have not historically done so. Sales tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax (GST), and other similar transaction tax laws and rates differ greatly by jurisdiction and are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. The application of these tax laws to services provided electronically is evolving. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our products and services in various jurisdictions is unclear. Furthermore, an increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. The Supreme Court of the United States ruled in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al ( Wayfair ), that online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the buyers state or economic nexus. In response to Wayfair , or otherwise, states or local governments may adopt, or begin to enforce, laws requiring us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. Similarly, many non-U.S. jurisdictions have considered or adopted laws that impose value added, digital service, or similar taxes, on companies despite not having a physical presence in the non-U.S. jurisdiction. We collect sales, value added or similar transaction taxes in a number of jurisdictions. It is possible, however, that we could face sales tax, VAT, or GST audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state, local, and non-U.S. tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional tax amounts from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We also could be subject to audits in state, local and non-U.S. jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful 44 assertion by one or more states, localities or non-U.S. jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect some taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. Such tax assessments, penalties, and interest, or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations. Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We generally conduct our international operations through subsidiaries and are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, value-added, goods and services and other local taxes. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to various jurisdictional rules regarding the calculation of taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the value of assets sold or acquired or the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. Changes in tax law (including tax rates) could affect our future results of operations. Due to the expansion of our international business activity, any such changes could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current or future U.S. presidential administration could propose or enact changes to U.S. tax laws that we cannot currently predict and that could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) has released guidance covering various topics, including transfer pricing, country-by-country reporting and definitional changes to permanent establishment that could ultimately impact our tax liabilities as countries adopt the OECDs guidance. We are subject to tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS), and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. An adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the IRS or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are, and expect to continue to be, subject to audit by the IRS and other tax authorities in various domestic and foreign jurisdictions. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions. Taxing authorities also have challenged, and may in the future challenge, our tax positions and methodologies on various matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a variety of jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that our tax positions and methodologies are accurate or that the outcomes of ongoing and future tax examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. We have U.S. federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards as a result of prior period losses, some of which, if not utilized will begin to expire in fiscal year 2031 and fiscal year 2022, respectively, for federal and state purposes, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our potential profitability. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, its ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset its post-change taxable income or tax liability may be limited. Such an ownership change generally occurs if there is a greater than 50 percentage point change (by value) in its equity ownership by one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock over a three-year period. We have experienced ownership changes in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset U.S. federal and state taxable income or tax liability may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. Furthermore, under the current U.S. federal tax laws, the amount of net operating loss carryforwards from tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 that we are permitted to use in any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2020 is limited to 80% of our taxable income in such year, where taxable income is determined without regard to the net operating loss deduction itself. Under current U.S. federal tax laws, net operating losses are generally not permitted to be carried back to prior taxable years. There is also a risk that, due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions of the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to realize a tax benefit from the use of our NOLs, whether or not we attain profitability. 45 If our judgments or estimates relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. Significant judgments, estimates and assumptions used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, income taxes, goodwill and intangible assets. Risks Related to Being a Public Company Our management team has limited experience managing a public company. Members of our senior management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company, interacting with public company investors and complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our transition to being a public company that is subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the continuous scrutiny of securities analysts and investors. These new obligations and constituents will require significant attention from our senior management and could divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur greater legal, accounting and other expenses than we incurred as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) and the rules and regulations of the SEC and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations. Compliance with these requirements has increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and increase demand on our systems, making some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. After we are no longer an emerging growth company, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In that regard, we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In addition, as a public company, we may be subject to shareholder activism, which can lead to substantial costs, distract management and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors. These increased costs and demands upon management could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure