ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the three and nine month period ended September 30, 2016. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report, as well as the risk factors and other information included in Part II, Item 1A, in our annual report on Form 10-K for our year ended December 31, 2015 (our 2015 Annual Report), and other reports and documents we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below. Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 2 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 2 and this report. We are an operating company that manages a medical technologies portfolio of equity-based and potential royalty-driven investments as follows: (1) Angionetics, currently a majority-owned subsidiary focused on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic gene therapy product candidate designed for medical revascularization for the potential treatment of patients with myocardial ischemia and refractory angina due to advanced coronary artery disease; (2) Activation Therapeutics, a wholly owned subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of the Excellagen technology platform, an FDA-cleared flowable dermal matrix for advanced wound care that we believe has broad potential applications as a delivery platform for small molecule drugs, proteins and biologics; (3) LifeAgain a wholly-owned subsidiary that has developed an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors; and (4) a minority investment in Healthy Brands Collective, a functional food and nutraceutical company which acquired the Companys To Go Brands business. Our business is focused on the acquisition and strategic development of product opportunities or businesses having the potential to address significant unmet medical needs, and having definable pathways to commercialization. Our business model is designed to create a portfolio of opportunities for success, avoiding reliance on any single technology platform or product type. We focus on late-stage product development bridging the critical gap between promising new technologies and product opportunities that are ready for commercialization. As our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. Business Strategy We are currently focused on achieving milestones with the potential to offer significant valuation inflection points of our core biotechnology assets, while evaluating options for sales or other monetization of our non-core investments. The key elements of our business strategy include: Continue Angionetics development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic, gene-based biotherapeutic designed for the treatment patients who have late-stage coronary artery disease and refractory angina and other ischemic heart disorders and medical conditions, including support in the funding and operation of the AFFIRM U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical trial. Monetize Activation Therapeutics FDA-cleared pharmaceutically formulated collagen commercial wound care product Excellagen through either a sale of Activation Therapeutics or its assets or the establishment of strategic partnership for the sale and distribution of Excellagen in selected U.S.-based vertical market channels. Leverage Excellagens advanced regenerative medicine delivery platform by identifying innovative product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells (including exosomes), biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs for future development and commercialization with one or more strategic partners. Identify a new insurance partner and seek opportunities for the application LifeAgains Medical analytics to commercialize Survivable risk term life insurance for cancer survivors or others with medical conditions who are currently considered uninsurable based on traditional under writing standards as well as other forms of survivable risk programs. Monetize our equity stake in Healthy Brands Collective investment. With the successful monetization of current business interests, we plan to redeploy capital strategically to acquire and develop new and innovative medicine product candidates and create shareholder value. 14 We have yet to generate positive cash flows from operations, and are dependent on equity and debt funding to finance our operations. We intend to raise capital to finance the operations of Angionetics through a sale of equity in that entity. Alternatively, we are seeking to raise sufficient capital to finance our operations through the sale of equit y or assets in our investments in Activation Therapeutics, LifeAgain and Healthy Brands Collective. If we fail to complete a financing or conclude such a transaction in a timely manner, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating exp enses. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report do not inc lude any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Recent highlights of our operating activities include the following: Angionetics Inc. (Generx) Angionetics is a majority-owned subsidiary established to hold our Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate. Generx has been under clinical development for over a decade, under the continual oversight of our highly experienced management team. Our management and consulting team have been responsible for the development of Generx from the initial scientific discoveries by researchers at the University of California, San Diego, through the first in-man U.S.-based clinical studies and late stage clinical studies, the acquisition of the Generx development program by Schering AG following the successful completion of a five-year strategic partnership, and the re-acquisition of the Generx development program by Taxus Cardium after Schering AG was acquired by Bayer Healthcare. Collectively, Angionetics small and highly focused management team has over 100 years of experience in the fields of gene therapy, cardiovascular product development and biologics. On September 9, 2016, the U.S. FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) cleared Angionetics AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical study protocol, thus allowing Angionetics to proceed with late-stage clinical evaluation of GenerxTM. The AFFIRM study patient population and trial design are based on Ad5FGF-4 responder data from the four prior FDA-cleared clinical studies. The primary efficacy endpoint is improvement in exercise treadmill test (ETT) duration in GenerxTM -treated patients compared to a placebo control group. Enrolled patients must have refractory angina, documented clinical evidence of myocardial ischemia, clinically significant limitation of physical activity due to angina, and angina-limited ETT duration of 3-7 minutes. On February 3, 2017, Angionetics received notice that the FDA has granted Fast Track designation for the Phase 3 clinical investigation of Generx [Ad5FGF-4] cardiovascular angiogenic gene therapy as a one-time treatment for improving exercise tolerance in patients who have angina that is refractory to standard medical therapy and not amenable to conventional revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary intervention and stents). Under the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, designation as a Fast Track product means that FDA will take actions, as appropriate, to expedite the development and review of a biologics license application (BLA) for product approval. The FDAs Fast Track process is designed to facilitate clinical and commercial development and expedite the review of new drugs and biologics that are intended to treat serious conditions that demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need. After over two decades of basic, pre-clinical and clinical research in the field of gene therapy by universities, research institutes, as well as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide, Angionetics Generx represents one of only a few cardiovascular DNA-based therapeutic product candidates to successfully advance into late-stage, U.S. Phase 3 clinical study. Our primary business focus is securing the additional capital that we will need to finance the completion of the AFFIRM study. We estimate that we will need an additional $25 to $50 million in additional capital to complete that study. We plan to secure that capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities in that entity. There are no agreements or arrangement for any additional financing in place at this time. The Generx Product Candidate: Generx is a disease-modifying, precision medicine that is designed to improve cardiac perfusion (blood flow) in patients with chronic myocardial ischemia and refractory angina due to advanced coronary artery disease. In our clinical studies, enhanced cardiac perfusion is expected to improve exercise capacity, reduce the frequency of angina (chest pain) attacks and correspondingly reduce the need for certain anti-anginal drugs, and improve overall cardiovascular disease status. Generx has been designed to improve perfusion by promoting the formation of functional coronary collateral blood vessels within the heart. This process, termed medical revascularization, represents a fundamentally new mechanism of action that involves the stimulation of the formation of new biological structures in the heart, through arteriogenesis (enlargement of existing arterioles) and angiogenesis (formation on new capillary vessels), as opposed to currently available pharmacologic therapies which only address the symptoms of angina. The Generx product candidate is designed to easily fit within the current practice of medicine, as a ready-to-use, one-time treatment, which is administered by interventional cardiologists using standard cardiac balloon catheters, during an approximately one-hour, out-patient, angiogram-like procedure conducted on a non-acute basis, in a hospital or medical center catheter lab setting. Interim study results demonstrate effectiveness similar to that of bypass surgery or stents, but in a significantly less costly and less invasive procedure. 15 Addressable Market: Patients experiencing refractory angina--chronic and disabling stable angina despite conventional forms of treatment represent a significant and rapidly growing, no option patient population. According to the 2016 American Heart Association report, there are approximately 15.5 million Americans with coronary artery disease, 50% of whom have symptomatic angina pectoris. Many of these patients (1) have coronary artery disease that is not limited or localized to large vessels, (2) continue to experience angina after coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) or percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI), and/or (3) are not suitable candidates for surgical interventions. Based on a study from the Cleveland Clinic [Mukherjee et al., Am J Cardiol. 1999; 84:598-600], it is estimated that approximately 12% of patients with angina due to coronary artery disease are considered not suitable for CABG or PCI. For many patients, there are few treatment options for refractory angina, and currently available alternative therapies do not directly address the reversible, stress-induced perfusion defects responsible for refractory angina. We believe that the Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate represents a new and innovative biological tool for the interventional cardiologist and potentially a breakthrough therapy for this very substantial unmet market segment, and for multiple small and orphan medical indications that currently have no specific therapeutic products. We estimate that there are approximately 1.0 million patients in the U.S. with refractory angina who may benefit from Generx angiogenic gene therapy, and that the potential addressable market is estimated to range from $3.0 billion in the U.S. and up to $20.0 billion worldwide. Generx Clinical Studies and FDA developments: The Generx FDA regulatory dossier represents one of the most extensive and advanced DNA-based clinical data platforms ever compiled. Generx has been evaluated as a treatment for patients with refractory angina in four prior FDA-cleared, multi-center, randomized and placebo-controlled clinical studies (AGENT 1-4, Phase 1/2 to Phase 2b/3) and one small international study (ASPIRE). The combined AGENT studies have enrolled over 650 patients at over 100 medical centers in the U.S. and Western Europe, and have generated over 2,500 patient years of safety data. In these multiple prior clinical studies, the Generx product candidate appeared safe and well-tolerated, and has generated preliminary findings of efficacy in men and women, in measures of cardiac perfusion, cardiac performance, and angina status, including: (1) significant improvement in exercise duration by Exercise Treadmill Testing (ETT); (2) significant improvement in cardiac perfusion as assessed by SPECT imaging, with observed improvements comparable in magnitude to those seen with coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) and angioplasty with the use of stents (PCI); (3) significant and durable improvement in physical exertion capacity, as assessed by functional classification of angina out to 12 months post-treatment; (4) improvement in angina status, as assessed by documented reduction in angina episodes and nitroglycerin usage; and (5) significant reduction in incidence of worsening angina. Generx Technology Platform: The Generx [Ad5FGF-4] angiogenic gene therapy product candidate requires three key elements: a myocardial delivery vector; a therapeutic transgene; and methods of gene delivery. Generx is biologically engineered using an E1-region deleted, replication deficient adenovirus serotype 5 vector to deliver the 621 base pair gene encoding human fibroblast growth factor-4 (FGF-4) under the control of a modified cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. Adenovirus is the most well-characterized and widely used gene therapy vector in human clinical studies, and has cGMP manufacturing and testing standards established by the FDA. The Generx FGF-4 transgene has been engineered to include a signal peptide, which enables effective secretion from cells that express the protein (such as cardiac myocytes). Our preclinical studies have shown that therapeutic efficacy is significantly increased by the presence of such a signal sequence in the growth factor DNA construct. [Gao et al., Hum Gene Ther. 2005; 16:1058-64] The CMV promoter is capable of driving high levels of transgene protein expression in transfected cells for up to 3 weeks. This short-term expression is ideal for tissue regeneration clinical applications requiring generation of new biological structures, including promotion of new vessel growth in the heart. Identifying the optimal route of administration and delivery parameters for Generx angiogenic gene therapy, such as infusion volume, flow rate, vector concentration and dose, are critical to achieving safe and effective levels of vector uptake and FGF-4 transgene expression. We have developed clinically feasible protocols that fit within current medical practice and that are designed to yield reproducible results and reduce inter-patient variability. Generx is administered by an interventional cardiologist into the coronary arteries under transient ischemic conditions through the use of a standard balloon catheter. Generx is distributed into the microvascular pathways of the heart, and transfects cardiac cells by binding to cell surface coxsackievirus-adenovirus receptors (CAR). CAR receptors are found throughout the heart, and our research indicates that the binding of Generx to CAR receptors is enhanced by the induction of transient ischemia and the use of agents like nitroglycerin to boost cell permeability during administration. 16 The transfected heart cells then express and release FGF-4 protein, whi ch promotes the growth of new blood vessels and increased blood flow to ischemic heart tissue. Recent Company-sponsored research studies have demonstrated that FGF appears to be a key angiogenic regulatory protein that stimulates the release and action of other angiogenic factors, including vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF), and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), to orchestrate and promote the growth of a functional collateral network in ischemic cardiac tissue . The evidence shows that FGF-4 expressed by Ad5FGF-4 has the capacity to enlarge pre-existing collateral arterioles (arteriogenesis) and to form new capillary vessels (angiogenesis) when driven by cardiac hemodynamic-impairment and ischemic stimuli. Thes e studies have further demonstrated a synergistic interaction between FGF-4 expressed by Ad5FGF-4, and endogenous vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the promotion of neo-vessel formation, with evidence that FGF controls angiogenesis upstream of V EGF. Commercialization Developments: Angionetics has continued to refine and advance Generx clinical and commercial development, summarized as follows: New Pre-Clinical Research on Ad5 Receptor. The Company and its research collaborators at Emory University completed in vivo preclinical studies demonstrating that intracoronary Ad5-based gene delivery under conditions of transient ischemia enhances transgene expression in the heart by over two orders of magnitude (>100 fold), as compared to prior intracoronary delivery methods, likely due to ischemia-driven up regulation of the cardiac Coxsackievirus-Adenovirus Receptor (CAR) and enhanced Ad5-mediated gene transfer. New Delivery Techniques & Higher Dose Level. The completion of further international clinical research confirmed recent innovations covering the use of a balloon catheter and transient ischemia during Generx delivery to improve efficacy responses by leveraging pre-conditioning cardiac physiology and our enhanced understanding of cell surface receptor-mediated uptake. This clinical study also confirmed the safety and efficacy of a new higher single dose level of Ad5FGF-4. Both the new catheter delivery techniques and higher dose level have been integrated into the recently FDA-cleared U.S.-based Phase 3 AFFIRM clinical study protocol. New Fundamental Research on FGF Signaling. Company-sponsored research studies have demonstrated that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) appears to be a key angiogenic regulatory protein that stimulates the release and action of other angiogenic factors, including vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF), and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), to orchestrate and promote the growth of cardiac microvasculature (a functional collateral network) in ischemic cardiac tissue. New Clinical Data Analytics to Identify Generx Responders. Angionetics has completed an advanced analysis of patient data from prior clinical studies to characterize male and female patient responders and those who are expected to have the highest likelihood to benefit from Generx angiogenic gene therapy. Data from a pilot International study which employed the new transient-ischemia Generx delivery protocol, identified statistically significant improvement in myocardial perfusion, as measured using SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging in patients treated with a single dose of Generx compared to control, which was consistent and confirmatory of findings from a prior FDA-cleared Phase 2 study. In addition to myocardial ischemia, likely responders have been characterized as having significant limitation of functional/exercise capacity due to angina. New Simplified Handling Process for Generx. Angionetics has pioneered application of the Becton Dickinson PhaSeal Closed System Transfer Device for DNA-based products to simplify the handling of Generx within the medical center and hospital pharmacy and interventional cardiology catheter labs, and has integrated use of the PhaSeal system into the FDA-cleared Generx AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical study protocol. Angionetics is committed to applying our first-mover scientific and clinical development leadership position in the field of angiogenic gene therapy for the treatment of patients with a variety of cardiovascular conditions which are related by insufficient cardiac perfusion. The core elements of our long-term strategy for Angionetics include: Secure the requisite funding and successfully complete the clinical development and commercialization Generx in the United States as a novel, first-in-class therapy for patients with myocardial ischemia and refractory angina. Initiate additional Phase 2 or Phase 4 (post-marketing) clinical studies to expand the Generx product labeling for use for other medical indications related to cardiac perfusion dysfunction that could include ischemic heart failure, Cardiac Syndrome X, and certain other orphan medical indications such as Prinzmetals and inversa anginas. Establish a Generx patient registry and conduct additional clinical studies to evaluate the safety and clinical efficacy of repeat dosing of Generx in patients as their coronary artery disease advances causing additional perfusion defects. Initiate additional studies to assess the potential long-term prognostic benefits of patients receiving angiogenic therapy through medical revascularization. Following U.S. registration, initiate the registration process to market and sell Generx in China with our current strategic partner, and consider registration in other prioritized regional markets. 17 Commercialize Generx in the U.S. usin g an internal, highly-targeted interventional cardiology-focused sales force, or enter into strategic partnerships in the U.S. and internationally. Strategically deploy capital to develop our portfolio of Generx product candidates and create shareholder value through the worldwide commercialization of our Generx portfolio and royalty agreements. Activation Therapeutics Inc. (Excellagen) Activation Therapeutics is a wholly-owned subsidiary established to hold and manage our assets related to the Excellagen product and technology platform. We are looking to monetize Excellagen through the sale of Activation Therapeutics or the technology. Alternatively, we have sought strategic partners to market and sell Excellagen in the United States and elsewhere through multiple marketing channels. We have been in discussions with parties expressing interest in purchasing the business, however, as of the date of this report, such discussions have not resulted in a completed monetization or strategic partnering transaction. We cannot guarantee that it will accept an offer to purchase the Excellagen business or that any such bona fide offer will be made on acceptable terms and conditions. Without a strategic partner, we do not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen . Excellagen Dermal Wound Matrix: Excellagen has been engineered to activate and promote wound healing through the growth of granulation tissue. Excellagen is a flowable homogenate of highly purified bovine dermal collagen (Type I) in its native 3-dimensional fibrillar configuration. Excellagen was cleared by FDA via the 510(k) pathway on October 3, 2011 (K110318) for the treatment of chronic dermal wounds including partial and full thickness wounds, pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, diabetic ulcers, chronic vascular ulcers, tunneled/undermined wounds, surgical wounds (donor sites/grafts, post-Moh's surgery, post-laser surgery, podiatric, wound dehiscence), trauma wounds (abrasions, lacerations, second-degree burns, and skin tears) and draining wounds. Excellagen has been classified for reimbursement purposes by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as a unique skin substitute-- a designation which is consistent with other forms of skin substitutes including living skin equivalents Dermagraft and Apligraf and human dermal and amnion placental tissue-based products including Graftjacket and EpiFix. The Excellagen manufacturing process includes steps by which purified full-length Type I collagen molecules are reassembled into collagens native, staggered fibrillar configuration. Scanning electron microscopy has demonstrated Excellagens 3-dimensional scaffold structure and histological analysis of Excellagen-treated dermal wounds demonstrates efficient infiltration with fibroblasts, and development of patent blood vessels. Excellagen activates human platelets resulting in release of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Excellagens ability to activate platelets is functional/biological evidence of its 3-dimensional fibrillar structure, as it has been demonstrated that this structure (as opposed to monomeric or denatured collagen) is required for effective platelet activation. Excellagen is a cost-effective, easy to use, professional product that is conveniently packaged in prefilled, syringes with accessory flexible applicator tips. Excellagen is topically applied in a thin layer directly to the entire wound surface, providing a structural scaffold for cellular infiltration and wound granulation. The flowable format allows immediate, intimate contact with the entire wound surface, including highly contoured wounds, and can also be easily applied to areas of undermining or tunneling. The wound is first prepared by performing sharp debridement using standard methods to remove debris and necrotic tissue, and then Excellagen should be applied in the presence of a small influx of blood. Application of Excellagen in the presence of a small influx of blood cells and platelets likely contributes to its support of a favorable wound healing environment by triggering immediate, localized release of PDGF and other platelet-derived growth factors and cytokines, providing wound healing cues to the responsive cells exposed by debridement. After application, the treated wound is overlaid with a non-adherent dressing. The treated wound (including non-adherent dressing) is left undisturbed for one week to allow Excellagen to promote new granulation tissue growth. If the wound is not completely healed, Excellagen may be reapplied weekly. Excellagen Clinical Studies and FDA approval : Excellagen was studied in a multi-center, randomized, controlled, double-blinded Phase 2b study in patients with diagnosed diabetes (Type I or II) with non-healing ulcers of the lower extremity (with no bone or tendon exposed) that had failed prior therapy, that were present for at least 6 weeks, and were documented to be non-healing ( 30% decrease in ulcer area) during a 2-week run-in period under standard of care treatment (debridement, daily saline-moistened gauze, and off-loading). The study control included the conventional Standard of Care or SOC; daily saline-moistened gauze dressing changes, offloading, and sharp debridement. Excellagen was applied only once (day 1) or twice (day 1 and week 4), with offloading and weekly outer dressing changes. 18 After the 12 week study period, 45% percent of the patients treated with Excellagen (n=31) achieved complete wound closure. This was a 45% relative improvement over wounds treated with SOC therapy alone (n=16; 31% closure incidence). There was a 68% relative improvement with Excellagen for wounds achieving 90-100% area reduction during the 12-week evaluation period. In other words, 74% of wounds receiving only one or two applications of Excellagen achieved 90% area reduction compared with only 44% of patients receiving daily SOC. The improvement seen with Excellagen compared to SOC was even more dramatic for larger wounds. For wounds t hat were larger than three centimeters squared, 33% of wounds treated only once or twice with Excellagen achieved complete wound closure at 12 weeks whereas none of the SOC-treated wounds closed. In the clinical study, Excellagen was applied to wounds only once or twice (with the second application four weeks after the first). Excellagens FDA clearance and the instructions for use suggest weekly application such that the accelerated healing and granulation tissue development observed in the Phase 2b study can be sustained, potentially further enhancing and accelerating the healing response. This schedule of weekly application has been followed in post-marketing use with positive reports of rapid, robust granulation tissue formation in chronic diabetic foot ulcers and pressure ulcers that have failed prior therapies. Excellazome Advanced Wound Care Biologics Research : We believe that Excellagen also represents a unique platform technology for the delivery of biologics for use in regenerative medicine applications. Prior research by Taxus Cardium and its collaborators has demonstrated biocompatibility and functionality of viral-based gene therapies and stem cell biologics when delivered in Excellagen. In addition to DNA- and stem cell-based biologics, Excellagen provides a potential enabling delivery platform for numerous therapeutic product classes, including small molecule drugs, peptides and anti-microbials. Activation Therapeutics is developing plans to undertake research and preclinical studies to evaluate the toxicology and mechanism of action with respect to the use of Excellagen as a delivery platform for secreted extracellular vesicles (Exosomes), which carry factors that stimulate and augment wound healing. Exosomes are small (30-100 nm diameter), cell-derived, lipid bilayer-encapsulated vesicles that are naturally secreted by most cell types. Exosomes are found in, and can be isolated from, almost all bodily fluids and the media of cultured cells. Exosome contents include lipids, proteins, nucleic acids, and soluble factors. First identified in 1983, only in recent years has the therapeutic potential of exosomes been recognized and investigated. They are now known to play a vital role in intercellular communication by delivering their contents to recipient cells, and triggering biologic responses. In addition, exosomes are key secretory products of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), and recently published preclinical research studies have demonstrated that MSC-derived exosomes can stimulate proliferation and migration of dermal fibroblasts, enhance angiogenesis, and accelerate wound healing in a diabetic mouse model. We believe that Excellagen could be a valuable delivery platform for exosomes in wound healing applications, by facilitating delivery and potentially augmenting the biological response to exosomes. Based on this new and exciting field of research, we currently plan to retain the exclusive rights to develop, market and sell an advanced biologic product extension utilizing Excellagen as a delivery platform for exosomes ( Excellazome ), to stimulate and augment wound healing beyond levels already observed with our Excellagen dermal matrix product. Advancing the Excellazome biologic product concept to clinical and commercial readiness will require additional process engineering by exosome manufacturers to establish reproducible and scalable procedures that generate well-characterized end products that meet current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) quality standards. LifeAgain Insurance Solutions, Inc. Our LifeAgain subsidiary has developed an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors. Our initial product offering was Blue Metric term life, an insurance program for men with prostate cancer. LifeAgain established a relationship with Symetra Financial Corporation to provide the insurance policies to men in the United States, based on actuarial information developed with our ADAPT technology. On April 4, 2015, we entered into a license agreement with Shenzhen Qianhi Taxus Industry Capital Management Co., Ltd., a company affiliated with Shanxi Taxus Pharamaceuticals Co. Ltd., for the license of LifeAgains ADAPT technology to develop and commercialize survivable risk life insurance products in Greater China. No products were commercialized or sold based on that license during the year ended December 31, 2015. On August 11, 2015, Symetra Financial Corporation announced that it entered into a definitive merger agreement with Sumitomo Life Insurance Company pursuant to which Sumitomo Life will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Symetra. Following the transaction, Symetra advised us that it was discontinuing its partnership with LifeAgain. As a result, we are not currently offering the Blue Metric term life product. LifeAgain plans to continue to seek opportunities for the application of its ADAPT medical analytics platform to commercialize survivable risk term life insurance for cancer survivors or others with medical conditions who are currently considered uninsurable based on traditional underwriting standards as well as other forms of survivable risk programs. 19 Healthy Brands Collective. On November 15, 2013, we sold the assets of our To Go Brands subsidiary to Healthy Brands Collective in exchange for shares of preferred stock representing approximately 4% of Healthy Brand Collectives fully-diluted common stock. Healthy Brands Collective is the trading name for Cellnique Corporation, a privately-held company that has acquired a portfolio of eight independent brand product platforms (prior to To Go Brands) including Cell-nique , Cherrybrook Kitchen, Yumnuts, Living Harvest/Tempt, Bites of Bliss, High Country Kombucha drinks and Organics European Gourmet Bakery (formerly Dr. Oetker) natural and organic baking mixes. At the time of the transaction, Healthy Brands Collective had announced plans for an initial public offering. Healthy Brands Collective has not completed any liquidity event. During 2015 we took additional impairment writeoffs against our investment in Healthy Brands Collective, fully reserving our investment. We are looking for opportunities to monetize our investment in Health Brands Collective, but do not have any arrangements or agreements in place at this time. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments, and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We record reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds market. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. We calculate the value of equity compensation expense associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using the Black-Scholes Option Model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of subjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the riskfree interest rate, the options expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what the Company has recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stockbased compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to overvalue our warrant and stockbased compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. Our other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Research and development expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 were $128,698 compared to $108,671 for the same period in 2015. The increase of $20,027 was the result of a $20,487 increase in clinical trial expenses and a $460 decrease in personnel related costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 were $887,241 compared to $1,081,189 for the same period in 2015. The decrease of $193,948 was the result of a $205,408 decrease in stock-based compensation offset by a $43,043 increase in personnel and related costs, an increase of $27,273 in professional services expense, a $959 decrease in storage costs, a $970 reduction in travel related expenses, a $44,916 reduction in occupancy, office and liability insurance related expenses and a $12,011 reduction in investor relations expenses and other selling, general and administration related expenses. 20 Interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $7,413 compared to $2,106 for the same period in 2015. The increase of $5,307 was the result of interest charges for expenditures made on our credit card in 2016. Net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $1,023,352 (including $483,892 of stock-based compensation) compared to a net loss of $1,191,966 (including $703,384 of stock-based compensation) for the same period of 2015. The decrease of $168,614 in net loss was primarily a result of the change in operating and interest expenses described above. For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Research and development expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were $290,895 compared to $486,759 for the same period in 2015. The decrease of $195,864 was the result of a $29,978 increase in personnel and related costs, a $14,084 decrease in stock-based compensation, decreased costs of $6,958 related to clinical studies, a decrease of $4,800 in outside consulting fees and a $200,000 write-off of a prepaid vendor credit during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were $1,762,375 compared to $2,449,745 for the same period in 2015. The decrease of $687,370 was the result of a $428,780 reduction in stock-based compensation, a $181,112 reduction in professional fees, a $51,695 reduction in office, occupancy and insurance related costs, a $36,383 reduction in travel related costs and $84,958 reduction in public relations costs. Offsetting the reduction in expense was a $79,603 increase in personnel and related costs and a $15,953 increase in other selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $9,878 compared to $4,490 for the same period in 2015. The increase of $5,388 was the result of interest charges for expenditures made on our credit card in 2016. Net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $2,063,148 (including $518,354 of stock-based compensation) compared to a net loss of $3,240,994 (including $961,218 of stock-based compensation) for the same period of 2015. The decrease in net loss of $1,177,846 was primarily a result of the decrease in operating and interest expenses described above and decrease of impairment loss on investment of $300,000 and a $200,000 write-off of a prepaid vendor credit during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2016, we had approximately $1.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at September 30, 2016 was approximately $2.5 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $1,201,465 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $929,334 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase of $272,131 in net cash used in operating activities, despite the lower net loss, was due primarily to changes in operating assets and liabilities and a reduction in non-cash expenses such as impairments and stock-based compensation. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $144,455 compared to no cash used in investing activities for the same period in 2015. The increase of $144,455 was related to leasehold improvements, property and equipment purchases associated with our move into our new office space. At September 30, 2016, we did not have any significant capital expenditure requirements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $3,117,723 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $730,818 for the same period in 2015. For the nine month period ended September 30, 2016 net cash received from financing activities included $3,000,000 net cash from a Huapont affiliate for the purchase of 600,000 shares of Series A Convertible preferred stock in Angionetics, Inc. and $117,723 of cash advanced or expenses paid on our behalf by the Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary Company expenses. For the nine month period ended September 30, 2015 the $600,000 net cash received from financing activities were payments from Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Industry Capital Management Co. for an equity stake in either the Company or Angionetics and $130,818 net cash advances received from our Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary Company expenses. We anticipate that negative cash flows from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not have any unused credit facilities. We intend to secure additional working capital through sales of additional equity and debt securities to finance our operations. As long as any shares of our Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, or incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. On June 7, 2016, Taxus Cardium and Angionetics entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited an entity affiliated with Huapont Life Sciences Co. Ltd, a China-based pharmaceutical and active pharmaceutical ingredient company (Huapont). Huapont is focused on the research and development of new and innovative healthcare products, and the manufacture, marketing and sale of leading pharmaceutical products, active pharmaceutical ingredients (known as APIs) and a portfolio of safe and effective agricultural herbicides (including NC16, NC34, NC36, NC125, NC201) serving the agricultural business throughout the U.S. 21 and South American markets. Huaponts pharmaceutical business includes dermatology products, cardiovascular products, anti-tuberculosis agents, autoimmune-related products and oncology-related produ cts. Huaponts API business involves the production and sale of bulk pharmaceutical chemicals, pharmaceutical intermediates and preparations of Western medicines, with current annual revenues of approximately $1.1 billion, and approximately 7,100 employees operating throughout mainland China. Huapont is listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (002004.SZ) and trades at a current market capitalization of approximately $3.0 billion. In connection with this agreement, Angionetics sold 600,000 shares of its newly authorized Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Shares) to the Huapont affiliate in exchange for $3,000,000 in cash. The Shares represent an initial 15% equity interest in Angionetics, resulting in a post-money valuation of $20.0 million for Angionetics, subject to certain anti-dilution protection. The agreement called for the investment from the Huapont affiliate to be made in two tranchesthe closing of the initial tranche of 200,000 Shares for $1,000,000 shortly following the execution of the agreement and the closing of the second tranche of 400,000 Shares for $2,000,000 was conditioned upon Angionetics securing FDA clearance to initiate a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical study (the AFFIRM study) to evaluate the safety and definitive efficacy of the Generx TM [Ad5FGF-4] product candidate for the treatment of patients with ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. The closings took place, and the Shares were issued, on July 5, 2016 and September 28, 2016, respectively. . Angionetics will require substantial additional capital to complete the Phase 3 AFFIRM study. We estimate that we will need an additional $25 to $50 million in additional capital to complete that study. We plan to secure that capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities in that entity. There are no agreements or arrangement for any additional financing in place at this time. We have yet to generate positive cash flows from operations, and are dependent on equity and debt funding to finance our operations. We intend to raise capital to finance the operations of Angionetics through a sale of equity in that entity. Alternatively, we are seeking to raise sufficient capital to finance our operations through the sale of equity or assets in our investments in Activation Therapeutics, LifeAgain and Healthy Brands Collective. If we fail to complete a financing or conclude such a transaction in a timely manner, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements contained in this report do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2016, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors.