ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the last two years ended December 31, 2014. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 in this report. Statements in the following discussion that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements, and inherently subject to risk. Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below based on a variety of factors. You should carefully review the risks described under Item 1A and elsewhere in this report, which identify certain important factors that could cause our future financial condition and results of operations to vary from our historical operations and from our current expectations of future results. Executive Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 7 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 7 and this report. We are a regenerative medicine biotechnology company focused on the development of advanced regenerative therapeutics designed to promote the activation and growth of (1) microvascular circulation to enhance perfusion of ischemic cardiac tissue as a potential treatment for heart disease; and (2) granulation tissue as a treatment for chronic non-healing wounds. We have a commercial FDA-cleared wound care product, a late clinical stage cardiovascular gene therapy product candidate and corresponding technology platforms as outlined below. We also own LifeAgain Insurance Solutions, Inc., an advanced medical data analytics business and hold an investment interest in Healthy Brands Collective, a health products company. Our business is focused on the acquisition and strategic development of product opportunities or businesses having the potential to address significant unmet medical needs, and having definable pathways to commercialization. Our business model is designed to create a portfolio of opportunities for success, avoiding reliance on any single technology platform or product type. We focus on late-stage product development bridging the critical gap between promising new technologies and product opportunities that are ready for commercialization. As our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. 33 Table of Contents Recent Developments During 2014, we continued efforts to advance the development of Generx, continued the commercialization of Excellagen, sold To Go Brands, Inc. and completed development of our first LifeAgain product offering. During the twelve months ending December 31, 2014, we continued to support the clinical advancement of our Generx angiogenic therapy product candidate, continued activities to commercialize our Excellagen dermal matrix wound care product, and entered into a strategic cooperation agreement and financing arrangement with Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd. a strategic investor based in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and affiliated with Shenzhen Forntsea Taxus Industry Capital Management (Shanxi Taxus). For 2015, we are focusing our efforts on the development of our core Generx product candidate and our Excellagen platform. As described in more detail below, preliminary results from our Phase 3 clinical study for Generx have been positive, demonstrating potential efficacy of the product in treating myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease. Generx is administered in a one-time intracoronary administration from a standard cardiac infusion catheter. Interim study results demonstrate effectiveness similar to that of bypass surgery or stents, but in a significantly less costly and less invasive procedure. Our Excellagen product has been approved by the FDA for use in wound healing applications such as diabetic foot ulcers. We are aggressively pursuing distribution arrangements and opportunities for the commercialization of Excellagen. In addition, we believe that Excellagen can have significant commercial value as a platform for tissue regeneration based on stem cells, biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs therapeutics and are commencing strategic partnering arrangements to evaluate those opportunities. Our principal business objective is to complete additional strategic licensing agreements to advance sales of the Excellagen product family and/or another corporate transaction in order to fund our operations to further advance the Excellagen platform and complete the development and commercialization of Generx . If we fail to enter into an additional strategic licensing arrangements or generate sufficient product sales, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Based on our business strategy of partnering or otherwise monetizing products and product candidates with third party commercialization partners, two business units have been formed to coordinate the independent monetization and funding activities of our core products and technologies. Our Angionetics business unit is focused on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of the Companys Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate, and the Activation Therapeutics unit is focused on the commercialization of the Excellagen FDA-cleared wound care product and the joint clinical development of Excellagen product line extensions as an advanced biologic delivery platform for new and innovative wound healing therapeutics. Recent highlights include the following: Generx Development Generx ( alferminogene tadenovec /CardioNovo ) is an innovative DNA-based angiogenic therapy being developed for the potential treatment of myocardial ischemia due to advanced coronary artery disease. Generx is designed to stimulate and promote the growth of supplemental collateral vessels to enhance myocardial blood flow (perfusion) following a one-time intracoronary administration from a standard cardiac infusion catheter in patients who have insufficient blood flow due to refractory angina or other medical conditions such as Cardiac Syndrome X. Developments with respect to Generx include: Announced positive interim Phase 3 data from Cardiums international ASPIRE clinical study showing apparently significant efficacy of Generx angiogenic gene therapy for myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease. The interim results demonstrated statistically significant improvement, as measured by changes after eight weeks in the reversible perfusion defect size (RPDS), determined using rest/stress single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. This improvement in RPDS was consistent with the RPDS improvement previously reported in the Generx AGENT Phase 2 clinical study, and of a magnitude similar to that observed following large vessel revascularization procedures, such as by-pass surgery or percutaneous coronary intervention. Presented the positive interim Phase 3 primary efficacy data and an overview of the Generx clinical development program at the 2014 Biotechnology Industry Organization International Convention, and presented corporate development activities and plans at the annual 2014 Marcum Microcap Conference, covering the Companys strategic focus on its core advanced regenerative therapeutics and technology platforms. Reported publication of a scientific article, entitled Identifying and Overcoming Obstacles in Angiogenic Gene Therapy for Myocardial Ischemia, by Gabor M. Rubanyi, M.D., Ph.D., Cardiums Chief Scientific Officer, in the August 2014 issue of the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology . The publication outlines advances in scientific and medical knowledge pioneered by Cardium and 34 Table of Contents others in therapeutic angiogenesis for myocardial ischemia, including mechanistic and biological insights, optimization of clinical trial design, and selection of target patient populations and meaningful efficacy endpoints. The publication also reports, for the first time, the results of studies performed by Cardium researchers and collaborators, demonstrating a synergistic interaction between Generx-expressed fibroblast growth factor-4 (FGF-4) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the promotion of neovessel formation, with evidence that FGF controls angiogenesis upstream of VEGF. Completed the pilot phase of our Generx ASPIRE Phase 3 / registration study, a 100-patient, randomized and controlled multi-center study at leading cardiology centers in the Russian Federation for patients with myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease, and engaged a new clinical research organization to support continuation of the study in coordination with a planned strategic partner. The ASPIRE study is designed to further evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Cardiums Generx DNA-based angiogenic product candidate, which has already been tested in clinical studies involving 650 patients at more than one hundred medical centers in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. The efficacy of Generx is being quantitatively assessed using rest and stress SPECT (Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography) myocardial imaging to measure improvements in microvascular cardiac perfusion following a one-time, non-surgical, catheter-based administration of Generx. The Cedars-Sinai Medical Center Nuclear Cardiology Core Laboratory in Los Angeles, California, is the central core lab for the study and is responsible for the analysis of SPECT myocardial imaging data electronically transmitted from the Russian medical centers participating in the ASPIRE study. The Russian Health Authority has assigned Generx the therapeutic drug trade name of Cardionovo for marketing and sales in Russia. Published important Generx findings in the peer-reviewed journal Human Gene Therapy Methods that demonstrate that Cardiums innovative technique employing transient cardiac ischemia can be used to dramatically enhance gene delivery and transfection efficiency after one-time intracoronary administration of adenovector in mammalian hearts. These finding have been incorporated into the treatment protocols of the Generx ASPIRE Phase 3 study. Presented at the 2014 Phacilitate Annual Cell & Gene Therapy Forum in Washington, DC,, Optimizing Phase III Trial Design for Generx (Ad5FGF-4) reporting on adaptive coronary collateral growth, the biological processes to be targeted by therapeutic angiogenesis, and discussed the lessons learned during the past decade of the Companys Generx clinical development program. Commercialization of Excellagen On October 3, 2011, our Tissue Repair Company subsidiary received a 510(k) premarket notification from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its fibrillar collagen-based Excellagen topical gel for wound healing of diabetic foot ulcers and other dermal wounds. Our 510(k) filing covers Excellagens use as a wound care management medical device for topical application by health care professionals for patients with dermal wounds, which can include diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, tunneled/undermined wounds, surgical and trauma wounds, second degree burns, and other types of wounds. Consistent with the Companys long-term business strategy, as previously reported, Taxus Cardium does not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen, but continues to credentialize Excellagen in preparation for the completion of strategic partnerings for various vertical channel market opportunities or asset monetization. The Company has continued to pursue a CE mark certification for Excellagen and looks forward to completing this process. Developments with respect to Excellagen include: Excellagen flowable dermal matrix in combination with Orbsen Therapeutics mesenchymal stromal stem cell therapy Cyndacel-M has been selected for clinical evaluation in a Phase 1b safety study for the potential treatment of chronic diabetic wounds to be funded by the European Union under EU Framework 7 (FP7). The project, known by the acronym REDDSTAR (Repair of Diabetic Damage by Stromal Cell Administration), is being coordinated by Professor Timothy OBrien, Dean of Medicine and Director of Irelands Regenerative Medicine Institute (REMEDI) at National University of Ireland Galway (NUI). The REDDSTAR preclinical studies evaluated the use of Excellagen and an alternative collagen-based product to promote the maintenance of stem cell viability. The combination of Cyndacel-M and Excellagen improved wound closure and neo-vascularization in a diabetic dermal wound healing model. Based on those results, Excellagen was selected to be used with Cyndacel-M in a human clinical study. Continued activities relating to the strategic partnering process and monetization Excellagen flowable dermal matrix wound care product for select U.S.-based vertical market channels and geographic markets. Activities have also continued to leverage Excellagen as an advanced regenerative medicine delivery platform by identifying innovative potential future product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells, biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs. 35 Table of Contents Continue to pursue an application for CE Mark registration for Excellagen flowable dermal matrix would care product, which is designed to support the potential commercialization of Excellagen in Europe. Consistent with the Companys long-term business strategy, as previously reported, Taxus Cardium does not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen, but continues to credentialize Excellagen in preparation for the completion of strategic partnerings for various vertical channel market opportunities or asset monetization. The Company has continued to pursue a CE mark certification for Excellagen and looks forward to completing this process. Sale of To-Go Brands, Inc. On November 15, 2013, the Company sold its To Go Brands business to Healthy Brands Collective in exchange for 33,441 shares of preferred stock in Cell-nique Corporation (the parent company of Healthy Brands Collective) and the assumption of approximately $370,000 of liabilities. Healthy Brands Collective is a fast growing private company that has acquired a portfolio of eight independent brand product platforms including Cell-nique , Cherrybrook Kitchen , Yumnuts , Living Harvest/Tempt , Bites of Bliss , High Country Kombucha drinks and Organics European Gourmet Bakery (formerly Dr. Oetker) natural and organic baking mixes. Healthy Brands expects to make additional brand acquisitions and has previously reported plans to move forward as a public company as its business advances. As a result of the sale, management determined it appropriate to discontinue the nutraceutical operations which led to the sale of To Go Brands Inc., and to write off the unamortized balance of our technology licenses which was focused on that product line. Accordingly, the activities of To Go Brands, Inc. are reflected in the accompanying financial statements as discontinued operations. The 33,441 shares of preferred stock represented approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Cell-nique Corporation on a fully diluted basis at the time of the transaction. Since Cell-nique Corporation is a private company we have recorded the value of those shares of preferred stock on our balance sheet as an investment in Cell-nique Corporation, at the net asset value of the net assets transferred (cost) to Cell-nique Corporation. The Company periodically reviews the carrying amount of its investment in Cell-nique to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. A non-cash impairment charge of approximately $1,400,000 was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2014. 36 Table of Contents On December 20, 2011, the Company received a license for a portfolio of nutraceutical, pharmaceutical and medical food product opportunities with SourceOne Global Partners, LLC (SourceOne). In exchange for the license the Company issued 75,000 restricted shares of its common stock valued at $5.80 per share. The shares were deposited in escrow for nine months and subject to release at future dates thereafter based on advancement of certain jointly-developed products. Under terms of the licensing arrangement, the Company received a fully-paid-up license to commercialize formulations of various SourceOne ingredients to be marketed as nutraceuticals, pharmaceuticals and/or medical foods. In addition, the Company obtained the right to designate up to ten products to be jointly developed by the parties, with cash and other resources to be contributed jointly under a profit-share arrangement. The license fee was being amortized over 10 years on a straight line basis; however, the Company is now primarily focused on the development of advanced regenerative medicine therapeutics and determined it appropriate to discontinue the nutraceutical operations which led to the sale of To Go Brands Inc., and to the write-off of the unamortized balance of $358,875 of this technology license which was focused on that product line. Under the SourceOne agreement, the Company also made an equity investment in the form of unregistered, restricted shares of its common stock to acquire an option to purchase to a 15% ownership interest in SourceOne Global Partners. The option was acquired through the issuance into escrow of 75,000 shares of the Companys common stock which were recorded at a value of $5.80 per share based on the closing price of the Companys stock on December 19, 2011, and is exercisable for an exercise fee of $10,000. The shares of our common stock issued for the option are being held in escrow and are subject to release in four allotments at 6, 9, 12 and 18 months following the closing date. During the year ended December 31, 2012, 50,000 shares were released from the escrow account and the balance of 25,000 were released in 2013. The Company also has certain rights to maintain its proportionate ownership interest in SourceOne, and a right of first refusal to acquire SourceOne on the terms that SourceOne were to offer a third-party acquirer. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances that warranted an evaluation of its SourceOne agreement and as a result a non-cash impairment charge of $435,000 was recorded. LifeAgain Insurance Solutions During 2013, we completed the initial product development of LifeAgain, a medical analytics and social media-driven enabled e-commerce platform that is focused on the development, marketing and direct sales of new and innovative survivable risk, multi-year, non-convertible level term life insurance programs and other insurance products, that are currently non-accessible and unaffordable for certain sub-groups of highly motivated buyers considered uninsurable based on traditional underwriting standards by U.S. life insurance companies. Traditional life insurance has become over-optimized web-marketed, undifferentiated, low priced commodity largely marketed to healthy people. LifeAgain is being developed based on improvements in relative mortality in certain sub-group populations, including cancer patients and patients with chronic medical diseases, as a result of the success of early diagnostic screening, public education, the introduction of advanced drugs and biologics, improved and optimized therapies, and expanding access to healthcare. We released the first product aimed at individuals with prostate cancer in 2013. The Company plans to potentially support the growth and development of this non-core business and technology platform through the sale of a minority stake in our LifeAgain business to a strategic partner or financial investors. Cooperation Agreement with Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd. On February 28, 2014, we entered into a collaboration and financing arrangement with Shanxi Taxus, a strategic corporate investor based in China, pursuant to which the parties agreed to collaborate on the advancement of the Companys product opportunities in China, and the investors product opportunities in the United States. The arrangement is reflected in two definitive agreements, each dated as of February 21, 2014, which were concluded and delivered on February 28, 2014, in connection with the first tranche of funding under the financing arrangement. In connection with the agreement, Shanxi Taxus acquired an initial tranche of $0.5 million by purchasing 714,286 shares of common stock at $0.70 per share. On May 12, 2014, Shanxi Taxus acquired a second tranche of $1.5 million by purchasing 2,330,278 shares of common stock at $0.6437 per share. The common stock issued to Shanxi Taxus is unregistered, but under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we agreed to grant the investor piggyback registration rights in the event that the Company files a registration statement for other shares of common stock. No warrants were issued in connection with the transaction. Under the terms of the securities purchase with Shanxi Taxus, the strategic investor agreed to purchase an additional tranche of securities in the amount of $300,000, priced at a 10% premium to the market price of our common stock. Following the completion of these three investment tranches, at year-end 2014, Shanxi Taxus had invested $2.3 million in Taxus Cardium and owned 3,510,620 shares or 27.5% of the Companys common stock. In addition the terms of a collaboration agreement, Shanxi Taxus agreed to apply commercially reasonable efforts to assist Cardium to develop and refine a plan or plans pursuant to which Cardium products, particularly our Generx and Excellagen product opportunities, could be commercialized in China; and we agreed, upon request, to apply commercially reasonable efforts to assist Shanxi Taxus to develop and refine a plan or plans pursuant to which Shanxi Taxus oncology-related products and product opportunities could be commercialized in the United States. As part of the agreement we changed our name to Taxus Cardium Pharmaceuticals Group, Inc. In addition, we agreed to grant Shanxi Taxus certain board rights based on the level of its financing pursuant to the financing arrangement discussed below. Cardium and Shanxi Taxus are moving forward with plans to explore the commercialization of Cardiums advanced regenerative medicine therapeutic products for the emerging and rapidly growing advanced healthcare market in China, and Shanxi Taxus oncology-focused product opportunities for the U.S. market; and for Mr. Jiayue Zhang, who is the Chairman of Shanxi Taxus, and an additional individual with U.S. corporate and financial experience, to join Cardiums Board of Directors. 37 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We records reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds managements estimate of net realizable value. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a provision for obsolete inventory of approximately $160,000 related to our Excellagen product. We calculate the value of equity compensation expense associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using the Binomial and Black-Scholes Option Model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of subjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the riskfree interest rate, the options expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what the Company has recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stock option compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to overvalue our warrant and stock option compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of our long lived assets to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. On November 15, 2013, we sold the assets of our To Go Brands business to Cell-nique Corporation (the owner of Healthy Brands Collective) in exchange for 33,441 shares of preferred stock (representing approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis) and the assumption of certain liabilities. Since Cell-nique Corporation is a private company we have recorded the value of those shares of preferred stock on our balance sheet as an investment in Cell-nique Corporation, at the net asset value of the net assets transferred (cost) to Cell-nique Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we believe there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances which warranted an evaluation of investment and as such a non-cash impairment charge of $1,400,000 was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2014. Under the SourceOne agreement, the Company also made an equity investment in the form of unregistered, restricted shares of its common stock to acquire an option to purchase to a 15% ownership interest in SourceOne Global Partners. The option was acquired through the issuance into escrow of 75,000 shares of the Companys common stock which were recorded at a value of $5.80 per share based on the closing price of the Companys stock on December 19, 2011, and is exercisable for an exercise fee of $10,000. The shares of our common stock issued for the option are being held in escrow and are subject to release in four allotments at 6, 9, 12 and 18 months following the closing date. During the year ended December 31, 2012, 50,000 shares were released from the escrow account and the balance of 25,000 were released in 2013. The Company also has certain rights to maintain its proportionate ownership interest in SourceOne, and a right of first refusal to acquire SourceOne on the terms that SourceOne were to offer a third-party acquirer. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances that warranted an evaluation of its SourceOne agreement and as a result a non-cash impairment charge of $435,000 was recorded. Other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our financial statements. Results of Operations Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013 We generated $109,200 in revenue from the sale of Excellagen products associated with the introduction of the product to the market in the year ended December 31, 2013, but did record any revenue for 2014. We do not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen, but continue to credentialize Excellagen in preparation for the completion of strategic partnerings for various vertical channel market opportunities or asset monetization. There were no costs of goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2014. Costs of Excellagen product sold in the year ended December 31, 2013 was $69,160. Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $640,425 compared to $2,037,370 for the same period in 2013. The decrease of $1,396,945 was the result of $399,000 decreased costs related to our Generx ASPIRE study, reductions in production and testing costs of $370,000 for Excellagen, and $628,000 reduction in personnel costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $2,935,863 compared to $4,908,919 for the year ended December 31, 2013. We implemented a number of cash savings initiatives during the second 38 Table of Contents half of each of 2013 and 2014 which decreased certain expenses by approximately $2,000,000 on an annual basis, including a reduction in personnel costs of approximately $1.2 million through headcount and salary reductions, as well as savings in facility costs of approximately $314,000 associated with the relocation of our corporate headquarters, $394,000 reduction in sales and marketing costs and $511,000 reduction in professional services and other costs. These expense reductions were offset in the first quarter of 2014 by a non-cash, stock based compensation expense of $454,756 associated with warrants issued during the period. Total stock-based compensation expense for all stock options and warrants for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $508,629. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $94,576 and represents interest costs incurred by a Company officer in connection with advances for payables to be reimbursed by the Company. Other expense of $1,834,672 for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes non-cash impairment charges of $1,399,672 associated with a write down of our investment in Healthy Brands Collective and $435,000 associated with the write down of our investment in SourceOne Global Partners LLC. Net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5,505,536, which included $508,628 of non-cash stock based compensation expense ($457,220 of which was included in selling, general and administrative, and $51,408 of which was included in research and development expense) and non-cash impairment charges of $1,834,672 as described above. Net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $6,906,803 (which included only $40,750 of non-cash stock based compensation expense). The decrease in net loss was primarily a result of the decrease in operating expenses described above. Net loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $2,007,490, which was comprised of a $909,979 loss on the sale of our To Go Brands Inc. business of $909,979 and a $1,097,511 write off of the unamortized balance of certain technology licenses which was focused on that product line. There were no discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2014. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5,505,536 (including the $508,628 non-cash stock based compensation expense) compared to a net loss of $8,914,293 for the same period of 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $217,000 in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at December 31, 2014 was approximately $2,008,000. We have incurred recurring losses and as of December 31, 2014, we had accumulated deficit of approximately $111 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease in net cash used in operating activities was due primarily to spending and headcount reductions in the second half of both 2013 and 2014. Our primary source of liquidity has been cash from financing activities and in particular proceeds from sales of our debt and equity securities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 consisting of approximately $2.1 million in net proceeds from the sale of common stock to a strategic investor and cash advances from our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $527,000 to cover certain company expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business. On February 28, 2014, we entered into a strategic collaboration and funding arrangement with Shanxi Taxus. The stock purchase agreement granted Shanxi Taxus the right to purchase up to $5.0 million of our common stock. The purchases were to occur in up to five tranches, each at a 10% premium to the then-current trailing average market prices of our common stock at the time of each closing. In February 2014, the Company closed the initial tranche of funding by selling 714,286 shares of common stock at $0.70 per share. On May 12, 2014, Shanxi Taxus acquired a second tranche of $1.5 million by purchasing 2,330,278 shares of common stock at $0.6437 per share a mutually agreed upon price. In December 2014, Shanxi Taxus acquired a portion of the third tranche of $300,000 by purchasing 466,056 shares of common stock at $0.6437 per share a mutually agreed upon price. The common stock issued to Shanxi Taxus is unregistered, but under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we agreed to grant the investor piggyback registration rights in the event that the Company files a registration statement for other shares of common stock. No warrants were issued in connection with the transaction. We anticipate that negative cash flow from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not have any unused credit facilities. As long as any shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. On April 4, 2015, after the period covered by this report, we entered into a binding term sheet with Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Industry Capital Management Co., Ltd (Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus), as lead investor, to purchase an equity stake in Angionetics Inc., Under the terms of the agreement, Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus agreed to acquire 15% of Angionetics outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $3,000,000 or 600,000 shares at $5 per share, payable in three tranches to be completed by May 30, 2015. On completion of the purchase, Taxus Cardium has agreed to grant Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus a right of first negotiation for exclusive license agreements for certain Asian markets to fund local country registrations, market and sell 39 Table of Contents the Generx product candidate, Excellagen , an FDA-cleared dermal matrix product for advanced wound healing and a delivery platform for biologics and stem cells, and LifeAgain , an advanced medical data analytics product technology platform. The agreement contemplates that this initial funding is a bridge equity investment to a separate larger financing to be conducted by Angionetics Inc., including a potential registration and public offering of securities. The terms provide for Taxus Cardium to gross up Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus shares to equate to a 15% interest in Angionetics following any such public offering. It also provides for certain registration rights for the shares purchased by Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus. We expect that the proceeds of this offering, if received in full, will be sufficient to fund our operations through December 31, 2015. Our principal business objectives are to advance the independent monetization and funding activities of our core products and technologies, with our Angionetics Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate, and our Activation Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Excellagen FDA-cleared wound care product and the joint clinical development of Excellagen product line extensions as an advanced biologic delivery platform for new and innovative wound healing therapeutics, and/or to complete alterative corporate transactions. If we fail to conclude such transaction in a timely manner or alternatively fail to generate sufficient cash from financing activities, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2014, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt, nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued a number of new Accounting Standards Update which will or may impact the Companys consolidated financial statements, including Accounting Standards Update 201408, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity ; Accounting Standards Update 201409, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ; Accounting Standards Update 201412, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718); Accounting Standards Update 201415, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern; Accounting Standards Update 201416, Derivatives and Hedging ; Accounting Standards Update 2014 Business Combinations (Topic 805): Pushdown Accounting. The Company will implement the changes required by Accounting Standards Update 2014-08, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposal of Components of an Entity in future financial statements and is currently evaluating the effects of the other Accounting Standards Update listed above on the consolidated financial statements. Additional information concerning the nature of requirements of these Accounting Standards Updates is contained in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report.