ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the three month and the six month periods ended June 30, 2015. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report, as well as the risk factors and other information included in Part II, Item 1A, in our annual report on Form 10-K for our year ended December 31, 2014 (our 2014 Annual Report), and other reports and documents we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below. Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 2 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 2 and this report. Taxus Cardium Pharmaceuticals Group Inc. (Taxus Cardium when denoting the individual parent entity and the Company when denoting Taxus Cardium inclusive of its subsidiaries) was incorporated in Delaware in December 2003. We are a holding company that operates a medical technologies portfolio of equity-based and potential royalty-driven investments as follows: (1) Angionetics, currently a majority-owned subsidiary focused on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic gene therapy product candidate designed for medical revascularization for the potential treatment of patients with myocardial ischemia and refractory angina due to advanced coronary artery disease; (2) Activation Therapeutics, Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of the Excellagen technology platform, an FDA-cleared flowable dermal matrix for advanced wound care that has broad potential applications as a delivery platform for small molecule drugs, proteins and biologics , which is currently being held as an investment for future sale or internal commercialization; (3) LifeAgain a wholly-owned subsidiary that has developed, an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors; and (4) a minority investment in Healthy Brands Collective, a functional food and nutraceutical company which acquired the Companys To Go Brands business. The Companys history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether the Companys operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements contained in this report do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The Company has yet to generate positive cash flows from operations, and is essentially dependent on debt and equity funding to finance its operations. Business Strategy We are currently focused on achieving key milestones with the potential to offer significant valuation inflection points of our core medical technology assets, while evaluating options for sales or other monetizations of our non-core investments. The key elements of our business strategy include: Advance forward the plan to operate Angionetics as a company independent of Taxus Cardium, focused on the development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic, gene- based bio-therapeutic for the treatment of almost 1.0 million patients in the U.S. who have late-stage coronary artery disease and refractory angina and other ischemic heart disorders and medical conditions; Angionetics has submitted the planned Generx [Ad5FGF-4] Phase 3 AFFIRM clinical study protocol to the FDA as well as updates to all key elements of the Generx IND. The recent submission included an updated Investigators Brochure and a summary of clinical efficacy and safety data from the four FDA cleared, U.S. and international clinical studies. The clinical data, including patient subset analyses, were used as the basis for the AFFIRM study design and target patient population. The updated long-term safety data totaled over 2,500 patient years, and represented the completed safety dataset for the prior clinical studies. A detailed review of product manufacturing procedures, testing strategies and up-to-date stability data were also provided to the FDA. Strategically partner and monetize or sell our FDA-cleared pharmaceutically formulated collagen commercial wound care product Excellagen, for selected U.S.-based vertical market channels and leverage Excellagens advanced regenerative medicine delivery platform by identifying innovative product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells (including exosomes), biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs for future development and commercialization with one or more strategic partners; 16 Monetize our equity stake in Healthy Brands Collective investment. We acquired this investment through the sale of our To Go Brands health sciences business through an asset exchange for a prefe rred equity position in Healthy Brands; With the successful monetization of current business interests we plan to redeploy capital strategically to acquire and develop new and innovative medicine product candidates and create shareholder value. Recent highlights include the following: Angionetics Inc. & Generx [Ad5FGF-4] Product Candidate Angionetics Inc., a biotechnology company, incorporated by Taxus Cardium on April 13, 2015, was formed to create a separate company to develop Taxus Cardiums Generx cardiovascular gene therapy technology platform. Our management team believes that the Generx platform is undervalued in the current Taxus Cardium capital structure and believes that contributing the Generx business to a separate entity will increase the opportunities for financing the continued development of Generx through Phase III clinical trials. Our management also believes that funding for Generx as a stand-alone company can be done at better pricing, resulting in less dilution and a value unlock for Taxus Cardum Shareholders. Taxus Cardium plans to contribute to Angionetics all of the rights to our Generx platform technology and and sell shares in Angionetics in order to raise capital based on a valuation of the Generx platform technology for the purpose of funding the development and commercialization of Generx. After Angionetics is fully capitalized, the Company intends to retain a significant minority interest in Angionetics and return value to shareholders based on an increased value of its holdings through the independent external market valuation of Angionetics and the Generx platform technology. Based on recent filings, the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) has accepted and designated Angionetics Inc. as the sponsor, and acknowledged Angionetics U.S. activation of the Ad5FGF-4 (Generx) Investigational New Drug Application (IND) pursuant to Section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The previously granted FDA Fast Track designation for the Generx development program continues forward. In addition, Angionetics has submitted, for FDA clearance, a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical study protocol (the AFFIRM study) to evaluate the further safety and definitive efficacy of Generx [Ad5FGF-4] for men and women with advanced ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. Angionetics has submitted the planned Generx [Ad5FGF-4] Phase 3 AFFIRM clinical study protocol to the FDA as well as updates to all key elements of the Generx IND. The recent submission included an updated Investigators Brochure and a summary of clinical efficacy and safety data from the four FDA cleared, U.S. and international clinical studies. The clinical data, including patient subset analyses, were used as the basis for the AFFIRM study design and target patient population. The updated long-term safety data totaled over 2,500 patient years, and represented the completed safety dataset for the prior clinical studies. A detailed review of product manufacturing procedures, testing strategies and up-to-date stability data were also provided to the FDA. The new U.S.-focused AFFIRM clinical study protocol, as submitted to the FDA, incorporates important research innovations that include: (1) enhanced cardiac delivery procedures utilizing standard balloon catheters, supported by research showing that transient ischemia may enhance gene transfer to heart cells; and (2) a more comprehensively characterized target patient population based on Ad5FGF-4 responder data from the four FDA cleared clinical studies. The study patient population includes patients with refractory angina (no longer responsive to anti-anginal medications and not a candidate for CABG or PCI), and documented clinical evidence of myocardial ischemia within the past 6 months. Patients must have clinically significant limitation of physical activity due to angina (CCS Class 3 or 4) and angina-limited baseline exercise treadmill test (ETT) duration of 3-7 min. The proposed primary efficacy endpoint will be improvement in ETT duration in Generx-treated patients compared to a placebo control group. Secondary efficacy endpoints include change in CCS angina class, change in weekly angina frequency and nitroglycerin usage, and change in quality of life, assessed using the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ). Generx [Ad5FGF-4] is a disease-modifying, precision medicine, angiogenic gene therapy for patients with refractory angina and inducible ischemia on stress testing, that is designed to improve myocardial perfusion and exercise tolerance by promoting the formation of functional coronary collateral vessels. This process, referred to as medical revascularization, represents a fundamentally new mechanism of action that involves stimulation of the formation of new biological structures in the heart, through arteriogenesis (enlargement of existing arterioles) and angiogenesis (formation of new capillary vessels), as opposed to mechanical revascularization procedures (coronary artery bypass surgery and percutaneous coronary intervention) or the transient symptomatic relief of angina achieved with pharmacologic therapies. Generx addresses an unmet medical need for patients with refractory angina who are no longer responsive to maximally tolerated medical therapy, and are not candidates for, and would receive no prophylactic therapeutic benefit from, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). Refractory angina patients with stress-induced ischemia are considered most likely to benefit from Ad5FGF-4 angiogenic therapy. 17 Ad5FGF-4 consists of human adenovirus serotype5 (Ad5) that has been modified to express the human fibroblast growth factor-4 (FGF-4) gene driven by a cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. The E1 region of the wild-type adenovirus vector has been deleted and replaced with the expression cassette for FGF-4. The E1-deleted adenovirus vector containing the FGF-4 gene expression cassette is replication deficient. Ad5FGF-4 is delivered to the heart using a standard cardiac balloon catheter. FGF-4 has been shown to be a key regulatory protein that is believed to promote both arteriogenesis and angiogenesis in ischemic regions of the heart. Generx has been evaluated in five FDA-cleared clinical studies under an initial IND which was filed with the FDA, all for the medical indication of refractory angina. These studies have enrolled 672 patients, 455 of whom received a one-time intracoronary administration of Ad5FGF-4, which has consistently been found to be safe and well-tolerated (based on over 2,500 patient years of safety data). These studies were conducted at approximately 100 medical centers, primarily in the United States and Western Europe. The primary objective of the AFFIRM study is to evaluate the effect of a one-time intracoronary infusion of Ad5FGF-4 on the change from baseline to Month 6 in Exercise Tolerance Test (ETT) duration using the Modified Bruce Protocol, with exercise duration limited by angina grade 3 (patient feels chest pain that has increased to the point that he/she would stop activity and take nitroglycerin). The patient population consists of individuals with refractory angina (CCS Class III or IV), inducible ischemia on stress testing, who are no longer responsive to maximally tolerated medical therapy for angina, who are not candidates for standard interventions (PCI and CABG), and who have baseline ETT duration of 3-7 min. Activation Therapeutics Inc. & Excellagen Dermal Matrix FDA-Cleared Product Activation Therapeutics Inc., is a wholly-owned subsidiary established to hold and manage the assets of the Company related to the Excellagen product line.The Company is seeking to monetize Excellagen through the sale of the technology and business unit or obtain strategic partners to support our future internal clinical and commercial development of Excellagen and the Excellagen Technology Platform. Excellagen is an FDA-cleared, pharmaceutically-formulated acellular biological modulator that has been engineered to activate and promote wound healing through the growth of granulation tissue in chronic non-healing diabetic foot, pressure and venous ulcers, as well as other dermal wounds (including traumatic and surgical wounds). We believe that Excellagen is a cost-effective, easy to use professional product that has now been classified for reimbursement purposes by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as a unique skin substitute- a designation which is consistent with other forms of skin substitutes including living skin equivalents Dermagraft and Apligraf and human dermal and amnion placental tissue-based products including Graftjacket and EpiFix . Excellagen Dermal Wound Matrix : Excellagen is a flowable homogenate of pharmaceutically formulated, highly purified bovine dermal collagen (Type I) in its native 3-dimensional fibrillar configuration. Excellagen dermal wound matrix was cleared by FDA via the 510(k) pathway on October 3, 2011 (K110318) for the treatment of chronic dermal wounds including partial and full thickness wounds, pressure ulcers, venous ulcers, diabetic ulcers, chronic vascular ulcers, tunneled/undermined wounds, surgical wounds (donor sites/grafts, post-Moh's surgery, post-laser surgery, podiatric, wound dehiscence), trauma wounds (abrasions, lacerations, second-degree burns, and skin tears) and draining wounds. Excellagen formulated collagen also represents a unique platform technology for the delivery of biologics for use in regenerative medicine applications. Prior research by Taxus Cardium and its collaborators has demonstrated biocompatibility and functionality of viral-based gene therapies and stem cell biologics when delivered in Excellagen. In addition to DNA- and stem cell-based biologics, Excellagen provides a potential enabling delivery platform for numerous therapeutic product classes, including small molecule drugs, peptides and anti-microbials, to name a few. The Excellagen manufacturing process includes steps by which purified full-length Type I collagen molecules are reassembled into collagens native, staggered fibrillar configuration. Scanning electron microscopy has demonstrated Excellagens 3-dimensional scaffold structure and histological analysis of Excellagen-treated dermal wounds demonstrates efficient infiltration with fibroblasts, and development of patent blood vessels. Excellagen is conveniently packaged in prefilled, ready to use syringes with accessory flexible applicator tips. Excellagen is topically applied in a thin layer directly to the entire wound surface, providing a structural scaffold for cellular infiltration and wound granulation. The flowable format allows immediate, intimate contact with the entire wound surface, including highly contoured wounds, and can also be easily applied to areas of undermining or tunneling. The wound is first prepared by performing sharp debridement using standard methods to remove debris and necrotic tissue, and then Excellagen should be applied in the presence of a small influx of blood. After application, the treated wound is overlaid with a non-adherent dressing. The treated wound (including non-adherent dressing) is left undisturbed for one week to allow Excellagen to promote new granulation tissue growth. If the wound is not completely healed, Excellagen may be reapplied weekly. The FDA-approved instructions for use specify, Surgically debride the wound bed using standard methods to ensure wound is free of debris and necrotic tissue. Allow a small influx of blood into the wound before applying Excellagen. Taxus Cardium has demonstrated that Excellagen activates human platelets resulting in release of platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Excellagens ability to activate platelets is functional/biological evidence of its 3-dimensional fibrillar structure, as it has been demonstrated that this structure (as opposed to monomeric or denatured collagen) is required for effective platelet activation. Application of Excellagen 18 in the presence of a small influx of blood cells and platelets likely contributes to its support of a favorable wound healing environment by triggering immediate, localized release of PDGF and other platelet-derived growth factors and cytokines, providing wound healing cues to the responsive cells exposed by debridement. However, platelet activation is not a requirement for Excellagen to provide benefits . As a wound heals and a bed of healthy granulation tissue develops, debridement becomes less necessary, but with continued application of Excellagen, its structural/functional benefits and support of a favorable healing environment are maintained. Excellagen Clinical Evidence: Excellagen was studied in a multi-center, randomized, controlled, double-blinded Phase 2b study in patients with diagnosed diabetes (Type I or II) with non-healing ulcers of the lower extremity (with no bone or tendon exposed) that had failed prior therapy, that were present for at least 6 weeks, and were documented to be non-healing ( 30% decrease in ulcer area) during a 2-week run-in period under standard of care treatment (debridement, daily saline-moistened gauze, and off-loading). The study arms included Standard of Care (SOC; daily saline-moistened gauze dressing changes, offloading, and sharp debridement), and Excellagen applied only once (day 1) or twice (day 1 and week 4), with offloading and weekly outer dressing changes. After the 12 week study period, 45% percent of the patients treated only once or twice with Excellagen (n=31) achieved complete wound closure. This was a 45% relative improvement over wounds treated with SOC therapy alone (n=16; 31% closure incidence). There was a 68% relative improvement with Excellagen for wounds achieving 90-100% area reduction during the 12-week evaluation period. In other words, 74% of wounds receiving only one or two applications of Excellagen achieved 90% area reduction compared with only 44% of patients receiving daily SOC. The improvement seen with Excellagen compared to SOC was even more dramatic for larger wounds (>3 cm2). In this case, 33% of wounds treated only once or twice with Excellagen achieved complete wound closure at 12 weeks whereas none of the SOC-treated wounds closed. To assess the early response to Excellagen treatment, healing rates (reduction in wound radius, cm/week) were determined over the first two weeks following application. These analyses identified a statistically significant acceleration of healing with a single application of Excellagen compared to SOC. These accelerated healing rates were also reflected in the % area reductions at 2 weeks; Excellagen generated 97% and 105% relative improvements compared to SOC for area reductions of 50% and 75%, respectively. Therefore, the healing response following application of a single application of Excellagen was rapid and robust. In the clinical study, Excellagen was applied to wounds only once or twice (with the second application four weeks after the first). Excellagens FDA clearance and the instructions for use suggest weekly application such that the accelerated healing and granulation tissue development observed in the Phase 2b study can be sustained, potentially further enhancing and accelerating the healing response. This schedule of weekly application has been followed in post-marketing use with positive reports of rapid, robust granulation tissue formation in chronic diabetic foot ulcers and pressure ulcers that have failed prior therapies. Excellagen Competitive Position: Other marketed collagen-based products typically do not undergo the same degree of purification that Excellagen is subjected to, contain non-collagenous tissue components, are lyophilized or hydrolyzed (fragmented) and presented in a sheet configuration or a ground up powder requiring hydration before use. Many collagen-based wound care products undergo terminal sterilization (e.g. gamma irradiation or ethylene oxide), which can alter physical and structural properties of the collagen molecule by, for example, introducing artificial cross-links. Some products are also intentionally cross-linked with chemicals, which alters (slows) collagen biodegradation. Excellagens aseptic manufacturing process ensures that Excellagen retains the natural, non-artificially cross-linked, fibrillar form. Excellagens ready-to use flowable format allows for greater versatility and ease of use than fix-structured, sheet-based products that require cutting to size, and fixation to the wound by suturing or stapling. Excellagen requires no product thawing or mixing before use. Furthermore, there is no product trimming or suturing required during application of Excellagen. The versatile, adherent gel formulation and the sterile, single use syringe applicator and tip allow for easy application, complete coverage, and intimate contact with wounds of varied etiology, shape, size, depth and surface contour. Consistent with our business strategy, we are now seeking to monetize Excellagen through sale of the technology and business unit or obtain strategic partners to market and sell Excellagen in the United States and elsewhere through multiple marketing channels. The Company has been in discussions with parties expressing interest in purchasing the business unit, however, as of the date of this report such discussions have not resulted in a completed monetization or strategic partnering transaction. The Company cannot guarantee that it will accept an offer to purchase the Excellagen business or that any such bona fide offer will be made on acceptable terms and conditions. Without a strategic partner, we do not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen and have deferred the pursuit of CE mark certification for Excellagen. 19 Excellazome Advanced Wound Care Biologics Research The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Activation Therapeutics, is developing plans to undertake research and preclinical studies to evaluate the toxicology and mechanism of action with respect to the use of Excellagen as a delivery platform for secreted extracellular vesicles (Exosomes), which carry factors that stimulate and augment wound healing. Exosomes are small (30-100 nm diameter), cell-derived, lipid bilayer-encapsulated vesicles that are naturally secreted by most cell types. Exosomes are found in, and can be isolated from, almost all bodily fluids and the media of cultured cells. Exosome contents include lipids, proteins, nucleic acids, and soluble factors. First identified in 1983, only in recent years has the therapeutic potential of exosomes been recognized and investigated. They are now known to play a vital role in intercellular communication by delivering their contents to recipient cells, and triggering biologic responses. In addition, exosomes are key secretory products of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), and recently published preclinical research studies have demonstrated that MSC-derived exosomes can stimulate proliferation and migration of dermal fibroblasts, enhance angiogenesis, and accelerate wound healing in a diabetic mouse model. The Company believes that Excellagen could be a valuable delivery platform for exosomes in wound healing applications, by facilitating delivery and potentially augmenting the biological response to exosomes. Based on this new and exciting field of research, in connection with (1) a strategic partnering transaction to market and sell Excellagen in the U.S., or (2) the sale of the Excellagen business unit (Activation Therapeutics), the Company currently plans to retain the exclusive rights to develop, market and sell an advanced biologic product extension utilizing Excellagen as a delivery platform for exosomes ( Excellazome) , to stimulate and augment wound healing beyond levels already observed with our Excellagen dermal matrix product. The company envisions a product configuration that would combine Excellagen (stored at 2-8C) and exosomes (stored at -70C) just prior to use. To advance the Excellazome biologic product concept to clinical and commercial readiness will require additional process engineering by exosome manufacturers to establish reproducible and scalable procedures that generate well-characterized end products that meet current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) quality standards. LifeAgain Insurance Solutions, Inc. Our LifeAgain subsidiary has developed an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors. On April 4, 2015, Taxus Cardium entered into a license agreement with Shenzhen Qianhi Taxus Industry Capital Management Co., Ltd., a company affiliated with Shanxi Taxus Pharamaceuticals Co. Ltd., for the license of LifeAgains medical analytics technology to develop and commercialize survivable risk life insurance products in Greater China. On August 11, 2015, after the period covered by this report, Symetra Financial Corporation, our financial partner for LifeAgain initial product offering Blue Metric term life insurance program for men with prostate cancer, announced that it entered into a definitive merger agreement with Sumitomo Life Insurance Company pursuant to which Sumitomo Life will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Symetra. Following the transaction, Symetra advised the Company that it was discontinuing its partnership with LifeAgain. As a result, we are not currently offering the Blue Metric term life product. LifeAgain plans to continue to seek opportunities for the application of medical analytics to commercialize survivable risk term life insurance for cancer survivors or others with medical conditions who are currently considered uninsurable based on traditional underwriting standards as well as other forms of survivable risk programs. To Go Brands and Health Brands Collective. On November 15, 2013 we sold the assets of our To Go Brands subsidiary to Healthy Brands Collective in exchange for an equity stake in Healthy Brands preferred stock which convertible into common stock representing approximately 4% of their fully-diluted common stock, and the assumption of approximately $300,000 of liabilities. Healthy Brands Collective is a private company that has acquired a portfolio of eight independent brand product platforms (prior to To Go Brands) including Cell-nique , Cherrybrook Kitchen , Yumnuts , Living Harvest/Tempt , Bites of Bliss , High Country Kombucha drinks and Organics European Gourmet Bakery (formerly Dr. Oetker) natural and organic baking mixes. At the time of the transaction Healthy Brands Collective, had announced plans for an initial public offering. Healthy Brands Collective has not completed any liquidity event. During the six months ended June 30, 2015 we recorded $300,000 in impairment 20 expense related to this investment. We are looking for opportunities to monetize our investment in Healthy Brands Collective, but do not have any arrangements or agreement s in place at this time. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments, and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We record reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds managements estimate of net realizable value. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. We calculate the value of equity compensation expense associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using the Binomial and Black-Scholes Option Model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of subjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the riskfree interest rate, the options expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what the Company has recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stock option compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to overvalue our warrant and stock option compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of our long lived assets to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. During the six months ended June 30, 2015 no impairment was recorded. Our other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our financial statements. Results of Operations For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 compared to the Three Months Ended June 30, 2014 Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2015 were $299,526 compared to $138,608 for the same period in 2014. The increase of $160,918 was the result of expensing a $200,000 future Excellagen manufacturing discount previously recorded as a prepaid asset, a $33,676 increase in Excellagen storage costs offset by decreased costs of $53,479 related to reduction in personnel and consulting expenses, an $11,209 decrease in production costs and an $8,070 decrease in other research and development costs Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2015 were $838,862 compared to $817,717 for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The increase of $21,145 was the result of a $320,221 overall reduction in personnel and related costs which were offset by a $139,270 increase in stock compensation and a $202,096 increase in professional fees. Interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was $1,216 compared to $28,600 for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease of $27,384 was the result of no interest expense being charged on related party advances in 2015. 21 Net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was $1,439,604 (including $140,388 noncash stock based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expense) compared to a net loss of $984,925 (including $1,118 of noncash stock based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expense) for the same period of 2014. The increase of $454,679 in net loss was primarily a result of a $300,000 impairment charge the decrease in operating expenses de scribed above. For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 compared to the Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 Research and development expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2015 were $378,088 compared to $382,152 for the same period in 2014. The decrease of $4,064 was the result of expensing a $200,000 future Excellagen manufacturing discount previously recorded as a prepaid asset, an increase of $46,113 in Excellagen storage costs and a $25,000 increase in technology license fees offset by a $210,392 decrease in personnel, stock compensation, and consulting related expense, a $43,351 decrease in clinical trials expense and a $21,434 decrease in production costs and other R&D related expenses. Selling general and administrative expenses for the six months ended 30, 2015 were $1,368,556 compared to $1,993,595 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease of $625,039 was the result of a $594,255 reduction in personnel and related costs including stock compensation, a $246,091 reduction in various other SG&A costs including production costs which were all offset by a $215,307 increase in professional fees. Interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $2,383 compared to $47,667 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease of $45,284 was the result of no interest expense being charged on related party advances in 2015. Net loss for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $2,049,027 (including $257,834 noncash stock based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expense) compared to a net loss of $2,423,414 (including $507,283 of noncash stock based compensation expense, $455,874 included in selling, general and administrative expense and $51,409 included in research and development expense) for the same period of 2014. The decrease of $374,387 in net loss was primarily a result of the decrease in operating expenses described above offset by a $300,000 impairment charge.. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2015, we had $113,210 in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at June 30, 2015 was $2,894,209. Net cash used in operating activities was $731,287 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $1,711,412 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease of $980,125 in net cash used in operating activities was due primarily to spending and headcount and salary reductions in the second half of 2014 which remains in effect. We had no net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014. At June 30, 2015 we did not have any significant capital expenditure requirements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $627,764 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $2,408,147 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. For the six month period ended June 30, 2014 net cash from financing activities was the result of two tranches of a common stock equity financing with Shanxi Taxus, our strategic investor. The Company sold 3,045,104 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $1,829,999 plus $457,000 of cash advanced from our Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary Company expenses. For the six month period ending June 30, 2015 the $600,000 net cash received from financing activities were payments from Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Industry Capital Management Co., an affiliate of Shanxi Taxus f for an equity stake in either the Company or Angionetics and $27,764 net cash advances received from an officer of the Company. We anticipate that negative cash flow from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not have any unused credit facilities. As long as any shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, or incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. We intend to secure additional working capital through sales of additional debt or equity securities to finance our operations. Our principal business objectives are to advance the independent monetization and funding activities of our core products and technologies, with our Angionetics Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate, and our Activation Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Excellagen FDA-cleared wound care product and the joint clinical development of Excellagen product line extensions as an advanced biologic delivery platform for new and innovative wound healing therapeutics, and/or to complete alterative corporate transactions. If we fail to conclude such transaction in a timely manner or 22 alternatively fail to g enerate sufficient cash from financing activities, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2015, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors.