ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the last two years ended December 31, 2015. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 in this report. Statements in the following discussion that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements, and inherently subject to risk. Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below based on a variety of factors. You should carefully review the risks described under Item 1A and elsewhere in this report, which identify certain important factors that could cause our future financial condition and results of operations to vary from our historical operations and from our current expectations of future results. -26- Executive Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 7 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 7 and this report. We are an operating company that manages a medical technologies portfolio of equity-based and potential royalty-driven investments as follows: (1) Angionetics, currently a majority-owned subsidiary focused on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of Generx, an angiogenic gene therapy product candidate designed for medical revascularization for the potential treatment of patients with myocardial ischemia and refractory angina due to advanced coronary artery disease; (2) Activation Therapeutics, a wholly owned subsidiary focused on the development and commercialization of the Excellagen technology platform, an FDA-cleared flowable dermal matrix for advanced wound care that we believe has broad potential applications as a delivery platform for small molecule drugs, proteins and biologics; (3) LifeAgain a wholly-owned subsidiary that has developed an advanced medical data analytics (ADAPT) technology platform focused on developing new and innovative products for the life insurance and healthcare sectors; and (4) a minority investment in Healthy Brands Collective, a functional food and nutraceutical company which acquired the Companys To Go Brands business. Our business is focused on the acquisition and strategic development of product opportunities or businesses having the potential to address significant unmet medical needs, and having definable pathways to commercialization. Our business model is designed to create a portfolio of opportunities for success, avoiding reliance on any single technology platform or product type. We focus on late-stage product development bridging the critical gap between promising new technologies and product opportunities that are ready for commercialization. As our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. 2015 Developments We entered 2015 with limited working capital. Our principal operating targets for 2015 were: (1) continue to advance the commercialization of our products and product candidates, (2) secure additional financing to support our continued operations, and (3) manage our operating expenses. Highlights of our efforts against these targets included the following: Advancement of Products and Product Candidates Generx: During 2015 our management evaluated information from our (ASPIRE) clinical study based in the Russian Federation and evaluated alternatives for financing the continued clinical trials that are necessary to complete the commercialization of Generx. We determined to finance the development of Generx through the sale of equity in Angionetics to effect an asset value unlock of Taxus Cardiums undervalued cardiovascular gene therapy technology platform. Under the current plan, Angionetics holds the rights to our Generx platform technology and is transitioning into a fully independent entity in order to raise capital based on a valuation of the Generx platform technology for the purpose of funding the development and commercialization of Generx. After Angionetics is fully capitalized, the Company intends to retain a significant interest in Angionetics and return value to shareholders based on an increased value of its holdings through the independent external market valuation of Angionetics and the Generx platform technology. Along with the determination to sell equity in Angionetics, our management team initiated a comprehensive review of Generx regulatory and clinical dossier. After evaluation, we determined to wind down our clinical studies in the Russian Federation, and elected to primarily focus on the clinical advancement and registration of Generx in the United States and China. We believe those to be the most dynamic medical markets in the world for new and novel breakthrough products like the Generx product candidate. In December 2015 we submitted an application to conduct the AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical trial to the U.S. Food & Drug Administration. The FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) has accepted and designated Angionetics Inc. as the sponsor, and acknowledged Angionetics U.S. activation of the Ad5FGF-4 (Generx) Investigational New Drug Application (IND) pursuant to Section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The previously granted FDA Fast Track designation for the Generx development program continues forward. Excellagen: Our Excellagen product has been approved by the FDA for use in wound healing applications such as diabetic foot ulcers. During 2015 we did not have the working capital to support the commercial launch of Excellagen, which requires capital for development of inventory, securing reimbursement classification from third party payors, advertising and sales support. We solicited distribution partners for Excellagen, but did not identify any distributors in the U.S. that were willing to invest the capital necessary to support a commercial launch. Accordingly we did not generate any revenues from the sale of Excellagen during 2015. While we continue to believe that Excellagen is a viable stand-alone product with significant market potential, without the funds to support its commercial launch, we have looked at opportunities to sell Excellagen in order to generate working capital to support our continued development of Generx. We engaged in discussions with a few parties during 2015, but no formal agreements or arrangements were reached or are in place at this time. -27- LifeAgain : The initial product offering from our LifeAgain subsidiary was Blue Metric term life, an insurance program for men with prostate cancer. LifeAgain established a relationship with Symetra Financial Corporation to provide the insurance policies to me in the United States, based on actuarial information developed wi th our ADAPT technology. On August 11, 2015, Symetra Financial Corporation, announced that it entered into a definitive merger agreement with Sumitomo Life Insurance Company pursuant to which Sumitomo Life will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Sym etra. Following the transaction, Symetra advised us that it was discontinuing its partnership with LifeAgain. As a result, we are not currently offering the Blue Metric term life product. Healthy Brands Collective: During 2015 we continued to look to monetize our investment in Healthy Brands Collective. At the time of our investment in 2013, Healthy Brands Collective had completed a number of acquisitions and expressed an intent to complete an initial public offering. Since that time Healthy Brands has not completed a liquidity event. We continue to look for an opportunity to monetize our investment in Healthy Brands Collective, but have no agreements or arrangements in place at this time. During the year ended December 31, 2015 we took a further impairment charge of $300,000 against our investment in Healthy Brands Collective, writing off the entirety of our investment. Financing -- Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Financing On April 4, 2015 we entered into a term sheet with Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus, whereby we proposed to sell Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus 600,000 shares of common stock in our Angionetics subsidiary in exchange for $3.0 million in cash. The $3.0 million was to be paid in tranches that were to be completed by May 31, 2015. Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus paid $600,000 of the financing, which was recorded as common stock issuable. Since Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus did not complete this transaction, instead Huapont agreed to fund the investment. Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus is eligible to apply this amount toward the purchase of common stock of the Company or its subsudiaries based on terms and conditions approved by the Companys Board of Directors. This contribution is committed and not refundable to Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus. On July 22, 2015, we entered into an Exchange and Redemption Agreement with Sabby Healthcare Volatility Master Fund, Ltd. (Sabby) relating to the 1,176 outstanding shares of Taxus Cardiums Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (Preferred Stock) that remained outstanding at that time. Under the terms of the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, we agreed to reduce the conversion price of the Preferred Stock to $0.30 per share, in exchange for (1) a right to redeem any or all of the outstanding Preferred Stock for its stated value (approximately $1,000 per share) at any time during a 120 day period after the date of the Agreement, and (2) an increase in the limitation on certain indebtedness contained in the Certificate of Designation for the Preferred Stock to allow us to borrow up to $250,000. As a result of the conversion price changing from $0.64 to $0.30 per share, the 1,176 shares of Preferred Stock outstanding became convertible into 3,918,667 shares of Taxus Cardium common stock, an additional 2,092,350 compared to before the conversion price change. A hypothetical conversion of all of the outstanding Preferred Stock into 3,468,804 common shares would increase the common stock outstanding from 13,187,544 shares as of December 31, 2015, to 16,656,348, an increase of 26%. As a result of such holder entering into the Agreement, for which the fair value of preferred stock before and after the modification was a substantially different, the modification was accounted for as an extinguishment. Consequently, we recorded a deemed dividend totaling $627,705 in the statement of operations in arriving at net loss to common shareholders. Management of Operating Expenses Because of financial constraints, we reduced headcount at the end of 2014. After that time, our employees have experienced reduced or deferred salaries. On April 3, 2015, Dennis Mulroy resigned as our Chief Financial Officer of Taxus Cardium. Mr. Mulroy resigned to pursue other opportunities and his departure was not due to any dispute or disagreement with the Company. He did not receive any severance payments under his employment agreement in connection with his departure. After Mr. Mulroys departure, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Reinhard, took on the responsibilities as our Chief Financial Officer. At December 31, 2015, we had six full-time employees. We anticipate relying on an outsource model for most of our significant operations, and do not expect our employee headcount to increase significantly during the next 12 months while our products and product candidates advance. Also during 2015 we relocated and downsized our corporate headquarters. The move reduced our annual facilities expense from approximately $121,000 to approximately $42,000. Subsequent Events--2016 Developments In calendar 2016, after the period covered by this report, we continued our efforts to advance our products and product candidates and to secure financing to support our continued operations. Significant activities during that period included the following: Angionetics Contribution Agreement On May 4, 2016, Bayer Pharma AG agreed to the transfer of the Technology Transfer Agreement from Taxus Cardium to Angionetics. Accordingly, Angionetics has assumed the obligation for any milestone payment required to be paid to Bayer Pharma AG. Under the terms of the Technology Transfer Agreement, Angionetics also may be obligated to pay the following royalties to Bayer Pharma AG: (i) 5% on net sales following a first commercial sale of an FGF-4 based product in the United States, Europe, or Japan, or (ii) 4% on net sales of other products developed based on technology transferred by Bayer Pharma AG (as successor to Schering AG) following a first commercial sale in the United States, Europe, or Japan, and (iii) a royalty of 2.5% (for FGF-4 based technology) or 2% -28- (for other products) in territories where the product would not infringe the patents licensed by Bayer Pharma AG (as successor to Schering AG). Angionetics will also be obligated to reimburse Bayer Pharma AG for patent expenses, including the expense s of any interference or other proceedings, accrued on or after April 1, 2005 in connection with the transferred technologies. To date there have been no sales or payments under this agreement. On June 6, 2016, we entered into a Contribution Agreement with our Angionetics subsidiary pursuant to which we assigned to Angionetics certain intellectual property and other assets related to the Generx platform technology in consideration of a $2.0 million technology transfer fee to be paid by Angionetics to Taxus Cardium upon completion of an equity financing in excess of $20 million or upon change in control of Angionetics. Assets contributed to Angionetics included the Ad5FGF-4 Master Virus Bank (frozen), HEK 293 Producer Cell Bank (frozen), developmental histories and lineages for Master Virus Bank and Master Cell Bank, the Ad5FGF-4 Genomic Sequence, Ad5FGF-4 batch production records, manufacturing testing protocols and specifications, product release testing reports, and certificates of analysis, and stability. In addition, we assigned the clinical sponsorship of the Generx Ad5FGF-4 investigational new drug application to Angionetics, which was accepted by the FDA. Huapont Life Sciences Financing Agreement On June 7, 2016, Taxus Cardium and Angionetics entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited an entity affiliated with Huapont Life Sciences Co. Ltd, a China-based pharmaceutical, and active pharmaceutical ingredient company (Huapont). Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, Angionetics agreed to sell 600,000, shares of its newly authorized Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Shares) to the Huapont affiliate in exchange for $3,000,000 in cash. The Shares represent an initial 15% equity interest in Angionetics, resulting in a post-money valuation of $20.0 million for Angionetics, subject to certain anti-dilution protection described below. The investment from the Huapont affiliate was made in two tranches. The closing of the initial tranche of 200,000 Shares for $1,000,000 occurred on July 5, 2016. The closing of the second tranche of 400,000 Shares for $2,000,000 was conditioned upon Angionetics securing FDA clearance to initiate a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical study (the AFFIRM study) to evaluate the safety and definitive efficacy of the Generx [Ad5FGF-4] product candidate for the treatment of patients with ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. On September 28, 2016, following FDA clearance of the Phase 3 AFFIRM study, Angionetics received $2,000,000 from the closing of the second tranche. The Angionetics Shares have the following rights, privileges and preferences: Dividends . Holders of the Shares are entitled to receive dividends as, when and if declared by the Angionetics board of directors on the Angionetics common stock, on an as-converted basis. Liquidation . In the event of a liquidation of Angionetics, including a change of control transaction, holders of the Shares are entitled to be paid an amount equal to their investment amount before any payment is made to Taxus Cardium or any other holders of Angionetics common stock. Voting . The Shares generally vote with the Angionetics common stock as a single class on an as-converted basis. Holders of the Shares also have certain special voting rights as a separate class including (a) the right to appoint a member to the Angionetics board of directors, (b) the right to approve any increase or decrease in the number of authorized shares of the Shares or the common stock, any merger or acquisition involving Angionetics, any liquidation or winding up of Angionetics, any increase in the number of directors and any dividend or distribution, and (c) the right to approve any amendment to the Angionetics certificate of incorporation in a manner that adversely affects the rights of the Shares. The voting rights under (a) and (b) terminate if Huapont does not complete the second closing under the share purchase agreement. Conversion . The Shares are convertible into shares of Angionetics common stock at any time at the holders election. The Shares automatically convert into common stock upon the closing of a firm commitment underwritten public offering of Angionetics common stock. The Shares are initially convertible on a one to one basis into Angionetics common stock. The Shares are subject to anti-dilution protection, such that in the event of a firm commitment underwritten public offering or a change in control each Share will be convertible into a pro rata portion of 15% of the outstanding Angionetics common stock at the time of the public offering or change in control. Generx License Agreement in Mainland China On June 7, 2016, Angionetics entered into a Distribution and License Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited, an entity affiliated with Huapont. Under the terms of the agreement, the Huapont affiliate has been granted an exclusive license to clinically develop, manufacture, market and sell the Generx [Ad5FGF-4] angiogenic gene therapy product candidate in mainland China. Angionetics will be responsible for conducting the planned U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical program. Working in cooperation with researchers at Angionetics, Huaponts affiliated entity has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct clinical trials, make regulatory filings and take such other actions as may be necessary to commercialize Generx in mainland China. Huaponts affiliate will be responsible the costs associated with the commercial development of Generx in mainland China. The Distribution and License Agreement provides for the Huapont affiliate to make quarterly royalty payments to Angionetics at a rate of 10% of net sales of Generx products in mainland China, reducing to a 5% royalty based on the volume of annual sales. The royalty payments commence on the first commercial sale and expire on the earlier of the termination of any patent or regulatory -29- exclusivity in China or fifteen years after the first commercial sale. The term of the agreement conti nues (unless terminated for breach) until Huaponts affiliate has no remaining payment obligations to Angionetics. Upon expiration (but not an earlier termination) Huaponts affiliate shall have a perpetual, non-exclusive, fully paid-up, and royalty free l icense to Generx in mainland China. Termination of Russian Generx Clinical Development Program Following the formation and initial capitalization of Angionetics, our management team initiated a comprehensive review of the global Generx regulatory and clinical dossier, and elected to primarily focus on the clinical advancement and registration of Generx in the United States and China, which we believe to be the most dynamic medical markets in the world for new and novel breakthrough products such as the Generx product candidate. As a result of this review, on July 13, 2016 we notified Dr. Reddys Laboratories (NYSE: RDY) of our plan to discontinue Generx development in the Russian Federation. Consequently, our previously reported commercialization opportunity with Dr. Reddys Laboratories will not be advanced to a definitive agreement. FDA Approval of U.S. based Phase 3 Clinical Trial (AFFIRM) On September 9, 2016, Angionetics was granted FDA clearance to proceed with a new U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate the further safety and definitive efficacy of Generx [Ad5FGF-4] for men and women with advanced ischemic heart disease and refractory angina. Exchange and Redemption Agreement On September 23, 2016, we entered into a second Exchange and Redemption Agreement with Sabby covering the 1,000 shares of Taxus Cardium Preferred Stock outstanding at the time. Under the terms of the Exchange and Redemption Agreement, Taxus Cardium agreed to reduce the conversion price at which Sabby can convert shares of Preferred Stock to shares of common stock to an effective price of $0.18 per share. The Exchange and Redemption Agreement grants Taxus Cardium a right to redeem any or all of the outstanding Preferred Stock for its Stated Value (approximately $1,000 per share) at any time after the date of the Agreement until November 29, 2016. We entered into the agreement to increase our options for retiring the outstanding Preferred Stock and financing our continued business operations. As a result of the conversion price changing from $0.30 to $0.18 per share, the 1,000 shares of Preferred Stock outstanding became convertible to 5,554,667 shares of common stock, an additional 2,221,867 compared to before the conversion price change. A hypothetical conversion of all of the outstanding Preferred Stock of 928 shares as of December 29, 2016 into 5,154,674 common shares would increase the common stock outstanding from 13,723,544 shares as of December 29, 2016, to 18,878,218, an increase of 38%. The reduction in the conversion price under the Exchange and Redemption Agreement triggered an anti-dilution protection in 7,235,600 previously granted common stock purchase warrants not held by Sabby, resulting in an additional 4,823,733 warrant shares to be granted for a total of 12,059,333 common stock purchase warrant with anti-dilutive provisions outstanding. The exercise price per common share in these warrants remains unchanged as the original common stock purchase warrant, a weighted average price of $0.71 per share. As of December 29, 2016, there were 13,723,544 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. There were 928 issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock which are convertible into 5,154,674 shares of common stock. In addition, there were 17,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options which were awarded under the 2005 Equity Inventive Plan, which have a weighted average exercise price of $15.50 per share. As of December 29, 2016, there were 7,275,598 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants which have an average exercise price of $0.71 per share for a total conversion price of $5,165,675, these warrants may also be redeemed through a cashless exercise whereby the warrant holder surrenders the required number of warrants needed to exercise the remaining warrants. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We record reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds managements estimate of net realizable value. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a provision for obsolete inventory of approximately $160,000 related to our Excellagen product. -30- We calculate the value of equity compensation expe nse associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using the Binomial and Black-Scholes Option Model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of s ubjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the risk free interest rate, the option s expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addit ion, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stock option compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to ove rvalue our warrant and stock option compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of our long lived assets to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. On November 15, 2013, we sold the assets of our To Go Brands business to Cell-nique Corporation (the owner of Healthy Brands Collective) in exchange for 33,441 shares of preferred stock (representing approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis) and the assumption of certain liabilities. Since Cell-nique Corporation is a private company we have recorded the value of those shares of preferred stock on our balance sheet as an investment in Cell-nique Corporation, at the net asset value of the net assets transferred (cost) to Cell-nique Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances which warranted an evaluation of our investment in the Cell-nique preferred shares and we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1,399,672, leaving a remaining fair value of preferred shares in Cell-nique of $300,000. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances which warranted an evaluation of our investment in the Cell-nique preferred shares and a further non-cash impairment charge of $300,000 was recorded. In December 2011, we entered into a series of agreements with Source One Global Partners, LLC, (SourceOne) related to a strategic relationship for our nutraceuticals business. Under these agreements, we issued 75,000 shares of our common stock for an option to purchase to a 15% ownership interest in SourceOne. The 75,000 shares were recorded at a value of $5.80, for an aggregate of $435,000, based on the closing price of our stock on December 19, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we believed there were certain impairment triggering events and circumstances that warranted an evaluation of its investment in the SourceOne option and as a result a non-cash impairment charge of $435,000 was recorded. In connection with the SourceOne transactions we also acquired the license to option certain technology from SourceOne, in exchange for an additional 75,000 shares of our common stock, which were to be held in escrow until the exercise of such a license. The technology license expired in December 2015 and pursuant to its terms 37,500 shares of the escrowed common stock was released to SourceOne. The remaining 37,500 shares were released back to Taxus Cardium and cancelled. Other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Fiscal 2015 Compared to Fiscal 2014 Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $361,484 compared to $640,425 for the same period in 2014. The decrease of $278,941 or 44% was primarily attributable to reductions in production and testing costs for Excellagen. Those expenses decreased $286,889 period over period as we determined to defer further efforts to commercialize Excellagen until we had secured a strategic distribution arrangement, together with sufficient working capital to finance product inventory, marketing and sales sufficient to support a commercial launch of the product. We also had a $44,539 decrease in expenses related to our Generx ASPIRE study in Russia, as we determined to shift our clinical development focus to the AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical trial in the United States. These reductions were offset by a $52,487 increase in costs primarily related to storage costs and stock-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $2,753,482 compared to $2,935,863 for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease of $182,381 or 6% was the result of a number of cash savings initiatives during the second half of each of 2014, including headcount and salary reductions as well as reductions in facilities costs through the relocation of our corporate headquarters. These initiates reduced selling general and administrative expenses by $831,697 in 2015 compare to 2014 levels. The expense reductions were offset by an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $570,343 associated with warrants granted to our directors and employees during the period. In addition we experienced an increase in professional services of $213,524 in connection with the re-initiation of audit services and with legal services in connection with our strategic transactions and financing efforts. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $82,594 compared to $94,576 for the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest expense represents interest costs in connection with cash advances received from an officer of the Company. -31- Other expense of $500,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 included non-cash impairment charges of $ 300,000 associated with the write down of our investment in Cell-nique Corporation or Healthy Brands Collective and $200,000 write-off of a vendor credit for future services. Other expense of $1,834,672 for the year ended December 31, 2014 included non-cash impairment charges of $1,399,672 associated with a write-down of our investment in Healthy Brands Collective and $435,000 associated with the write-down of our investment in SourceOne Global Partners LLC. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $3,697,560, which included $985,114 of non-cash stock based compensation expense and non-cash impairment charges of $500,000 as described above. Net loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $5,505,536 which included $508,628 of stock-based compensation expense and non-cash impairment charges of $1,834,672 as described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2015, we had $21,547 in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at December 31, 2015 was $3,800, 864. Since our inception we have incurred recurring losses and as of December 31, 2015, we had accumulated deficit of approximately $115 million. Net cash used in operating activities was $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The decrease in net cash used in operating activities was due primarily to spending and headcount reductions implemented in the second half of 2014. We had no net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. At December 31, 2015 we did not have any significant capital expenditure requirements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $857,709 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $2,818,357 for the same period in 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net cash received from financing activities was comprised of a $600,000 investment from Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Industry Capital Management Co. (Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus) and $257,709 net cash advances received from our Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary operating expenses. On April 4, 2015 we entered into a binding term sheet with Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus to purchase 15% of Angionetics outstanding common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $3,000,000 or 600,000 shares at $5 per share, payable in three tranches to be completed by May 30, 2015. On completion of the purchase, Taxus Cardium was to grant Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus a right of first negotiation for exclusive license agreements to fund local country registrations, market and sell Generx, Excellagen, and LifeAgain products in certain Asian markets. Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus paid the initial tranche of $600,000 in 2015 but did not complete the transaction. Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus subsequently agreed to treat the $600,000 payment as an equity subscription for the future purchase shares of Angionetics and/or Taxus Cardium common stock at a fair market price at the time of the purchase as determined by our Board of Directors. Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus has relinquished any right or economic interest in the license agreement for Generx, is currently negotiating with the Company for a license for Excellagen in Asia, and has retained rights to LifeAgain in the Asian markets. For the year ended December 31, 2014, net cash from financing activities was the result of two tranches of a common stock equity financing with Shanxi Taxus Pharamaceuticals Co. Ltd. (Shanxi Taxus) for aggregate proceeds, net of issuance costs, of $2,129,924 and $688,433 of cash advanced from our Chief Executive Officer to cover ordinary operating expenses. On February 28, 2014, we entered into a stock purchase agreement which granted Shanxi Taxus the right to purchase up to $5.0 million of our common stock. The purchases were to occur in up to five tranches, each at a 10% premium to the then-current trailing average market prices of our common stock at the time of each closing. In February 2014, the Company closed the initial tranche of funding by selling 714,286 shares of common stock at $0.70 per share. On May 12, 2014, Shanxi Taxus acquired a second tranche of $1.5 million by purchasing 2,330,278 shares of common stock at $0.6437 per share a mutually agreed upon price. In December 2014, Shanxi Taxus acquired a portion of the third tranche of $300,000 by purchasing 466,056 shares of common stock at $0.6437 per share a mutually agreed upon price. The common stock issued to Shanxi Taxus is unregistered, but under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we agreed to grant the investor piggyback registration rights in the event that the Company files a registration statement for other shares of common stock. No warrants were issued in connection with the transaction. Following the completion of these three investment tranches, at year-end 2014, Shanxi Taxus had invested $2.3 million in Taxus Cardium and owned 3,510,620 shares or 27.5% of the Companys common stock. We anticipate that negative cash flows from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not have any unused credit facilities. We intend to secure additional working capital through sales of additional equity and debt securities to finance our operations. As long as any shares of our Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, or incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. Our principal business objective is to advance or Generx product candidate through the AFFIRM Phase 3 clinical trial and to begin commercialization of Generx in the United States. In order to secure the requisite funding we intend to sell debt or equity securities in Taxus Cardium or Angionetics. We will also look to monetize our other investments, including the possible sale of equity in Activation -32- Therapeutics , LifeAgain or Healthy Brands Collective. If we fail to conclude such a financing or sale transaction in a timely manner, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. On June 7, 2016, after the period covered by this report, Taxus Cardium and Angionetics entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Pineworld Capital Limited an entity affiliated with Huapont as described above. In connection with this agreement, Angionetics sold 600,000 shares of its newly authorized Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to the Huapont affiliate in exchange for $3,000,000 in cash. The Shares represent an initial 15% equity interest in Angionetics, resulting in a post-money valuation of $20.0 million for Angionetics, subject to certain anti-dilution protection. . Angionetics will require substantial additional capital to complete the Phase 3 AFFIRM study. We estimate that we will need an additional $25 to $50 million in additional capital to complete that study. We plan to secure that capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities. There are no agreements or arrangement for any additional financing in place at this time. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt, nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued a number of new Accounting Standards Update which will or may impact our consolidated financial statements, including Accounting Standards Update 2016-09 , Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting ; Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 , Leases (Topic 842) ; Accounting Standards Update 2015-17 , Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes; Accounting Standards Update 2015-11 , Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory ; Accounting Standards Update 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going. We will implement the changes required by Accounting Standards Update 2014-08, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposal of Components of an Entity in future financial statements and are currently evaluating the effects of the other Accounting Standards Update listed above on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information concerning the nature of requirements of these Accounting Standards Updates is contained in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report.