ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis is intended to help you understand our financial condition and results of operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2015. You should read the following discussion and analysis together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report, as well as the risk factors and other information included Part II, Item 1A, in our annual report on Form 10-K for our year ended December 31, 2014 (our 2014 Annual Report), and other reports and documents we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our future financial condition and results of operations will vary from our historical financial condition and results of operations described below. Overview The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of this Item 2 or other items in this report or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Item 2 and this report. We are a regenerative medicine biotechnology company focused on the development of advanced regenerative therapeutics designed to promote the activation and growth of (1) microvascular circulation to enhance perfusion of ischemic cardiac tissue as a potential treatment for heart disease; and (2) granulation tissue as a treatment for chronic non-healing wounds. We have a commercial FDA-cleared wound care product, a late clinical stage cardiovascular gene therapy product candidate and corresponding technology platforms as outlined below. We also own LifeAgain Insurance Solutions, Inc., an advanced medical data analytics business and hold an investment interest in Healthy Brands Collective, a health products company. Our business is focused on the acquisition and strategic development of product opportunities or businesses having the potential to address significant unmet medical needs, and having definable pathways to commercialization. Our business model is designed to create a portfolio of opportunities for success, avoiding reliance on any single technology platform or product type. We focus on late-stage product development bridging the critical gap between promising new technologies and product opportunities that are ready for commercialization. As our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. Based on our business strategy of partnering or otherwise monetizing products and product candidates with third party commercialization partners, two business units have been formed to coordinate the independent monetization and funding activities of our core products and technologies. The Angionetics business unit will focus on the late-stage clinical development and commercialization of the Companys Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate, and the Activation Therapeutics unit will focus on the commercialization of the Excellagen FDA-cleared wound care product and the joint clinical development of Excellagen product line extensions as an advanced biologic delivery platform for new and innovative wound healing therapeutics. Consistent with our overall business strategy, as our product opportunities and businesses are advanced and corresponding valuations established, we intend to consider various corporate development transactions designed to place our product candidates into larger organizations or with partners having existing commercialization, sales and marketing resources, and a need for innovative products. Such transactions could involve the sale, partnering or other monetization of particular product opportunities or businesses. Our principal business objective is to complete an additional strategic licensing agreement to advance sales of the Excellagen product family and/or another corporate transaction in order to fund our operations to further advance the Excellagen platform and complete the development and commercialization of Generx. If we fail to enter into an additional strategic licensing arrangement or generate sufficient product sales, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Recent Developments We continue efforts to advance the clinical and commercial development of Generx, continued the commercialization of Excellagen, sold To Go Brands, Inc. and completed development of our first LifeAgain product offering. We continue to support the clinical advancement of our Generx angiogenic therapy product candidate, continued activities to commercialize our Excellagen dermal matrix wound care product, and entered into a strategic cooperation agreement and financing arrangement with Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd. a strategic investor based in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and affiliated with Shenzhen Forntsea Taxus Industry Capital Management (Shanxi Taxus). 13 Table of Contents For 2015, we plan to focus on achieving key milestones with the potential to offer significant valuation inflection points of our core biotechnology assets, while evaluating option for sales or other monetizations of our non-core investments. The key elements of our business strategy include: Advance our ASPIRE international Phase 3 registration clinical study for Generx which is currently underway in the Russia Federation. Upon clinical success, the Company plans to meet with the U.S. FDA to seek harmonization between the international ASPIRE study with our FDA-cleared Generx Phase 3 clinical study and advance U.S.-based clinical studies supported by a strategic partner; Strategically partner and monetize our FDA-cleared pharmaceutically formulated collagen commercial wound care product Excellagen , for selected U.S.-based vertical market channels and leverage Excellagens advanced regenerative medicine delivery platform by identifying innovative product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells, biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs for future development and commercialization with one or more strategic partners. The Company has continued to pursue a CE mark certification for Excellagen, has fully responded to all information requested by the notified body, and looks forward to completing this process; Advance the commercialization of our LifeAgain Insurance Solutions advanced medical analytics business, which is focused on the development, marketing and sale of survivable risk term life insurance for cancer survivors or others with medical conditions who are currently considered uninsurable based on traditional underwriting standards; Monetize our equity stake in Cardiums Healthy Brands Collective investment. We acquired this investment through the sale of our To Go Brands health sciences business through an asset exchange for a preferred equity position in Healthy Brands. Healthy Brands has been making significant acquisitions and has previously reported plans to move forward as a public company as its current businesses advance and growth through further acquisition; Leverage our cooperation agreement with Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd. to distribute our Excellagen product and Generx product candidate in China, and distribute Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd.s oncology related products in the United States; and Deploy capital strategically to develop our portfolio of product candidates and create shareholder value. Recent highlights include the following: Generx Development Angionetics Inc. is a leader in the field of cardiovascular gene therapy. Generx (alferminogene tadenovec), Angionetics Phase 3 clinical study product candidate, is a transformative disease-modifying angiogenic gene therapy growth factor therapeutic that is being developed to promote the growth of cardiac microvascular circulation to enhance perfusion (blood flow) for patients with advanced coronary artery disease. Generx represents a new class of therapeutic designed to address a large and unmet medical need among patients with heart disease. Generx is targeted for the potential treatment of patients with Cardiac Microvascular Insufficiency or CMI due to advanced coronary artery disease. CMI is a principal cause of microvascular angina or coronary microvascular dysfunction, a well-recognized clinical condition characterized by functional and structural abnormalities of the microvasculature (smaller blood vessels of the heart), which leads to myocardial ischemia and angina pectoris in the absence of large artery/obstructive disease. Generx is designed to be a one-time non-surgical treatment that may help many of such patients by directly addressing their underlying microvascular angina, as well as providing a non-surgical option for patients in whom coronary intervention is either contraindicated or not desirable. Observed results from our Phase 2 clinical trial demonstrated effects that were similar in magnitude to those reported in the medical literature for patients undergoing surgical revascularization procedures such as cardiac by-pass surgery, or angioplasty and stenting, as measured by improvements of reversible perfusion defects of comparable size following such procedures. CMI frequently cannot be addressed using traditional surgical approaches such as coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI, i.e. angioplasty and stents). In particular, many patients have coronary artery disease that is not limited or localized to large vessels, continue to experience angina after CABG or PCI, and/or are not suitable candidates for surgical interventions. It is estimated that 12% of patients with obstructive coronary artery disease continue to experience angina because their underlying medical condition is not fully addressed or cannot be resolved by chronic drugs or surgical/mechanical interventions. In addition, a recent meta-analysis study reported that approximately 20% of patients who have a coronary angiography due to ongoing angina do not have obvious large vessel disease, a condition generally referred to as Cardiac Syndrome X, many of whom are presumed to have coronary disease that is diffuse and/or affects smaller vessels within the heart that are not reachable through surgical intervention. Myocardial ischemia, including that associated with CMI, can be effectively diagnosed and its potential treatment quantified using SPECT imaging (Single-photon emission computed tomography). SPECT has both diagnostic and prognostic value in the management of patients with coronary artery disease because it identifies and quantitatively measures regions of the heart muscle that 14 Table of Contents are at greatest risk during periods of ischemia, such as that brought on during exertion. We believe that other catheter-based diagnostic techniques, including catheter-based imaging diagnostics to measure fractional flow reserve and washout collaterometry, will be further developed, which may enhance and broaden clinical adoption of non-surgical Generx angiogenesis therapy following initial Generx registration. Based on the data from four completed clinical studies, Generx appears to be safe and well tolerated and capable of improving myocardial perfusion, as measured by validated diagnostic SPECT imaging, in patients with reversible perfusion defect size of greater than 9%. Generx also improved exercise tolerance time, based on an analysis of pre-specified patient sub-groups with stable angina pectoris due to advanced coronary artery disease who were unresponsive to optimal medical therapy and are not considered suitable candidates for traditional coronary artery by-pass surgery, angioplasty and/or stenting. Upon completion of the current ASPIRE Phase 3 international clinical study, data from the our five Generx clinical studies will represent one of the largest clinical and regulatory dossiers for a cardiac gene therapy product candidate in the world covering the treatment of over 750 patients in the United States, Canada, South America Western Europe and the Russian Federation at over 100 medical centers. Developments with respect to Generx include: Announced positive interim Phase 3 data from Cardiums international ASPIRE clinical study showing apparently significant efficacy of Generx angiogenic gene therapy for myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease. The interim results demonstrated statistically significant improvement, as measured by changes after eight weeks in the reversible perfusion defect size (RPDS), determined using rest/stress single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. This improvement in RPDS was consistent with the RPDS improvement previously reported in the Generx AGENT Phase 2 clinical study, and of a magnitude similar to that observed following large vessel revascularization procedures, such as by-pass surgery or percutaneous coronary intervention. Presented the positive interim Phase 3 primary efficacy data and an overview of the Generx clinical development program at the 2014 Biotechnology Industry Organization International Convention, and presented corporate development activities and plans at the annual 2014 Marcum Microcap Conference, covering the Companys strategic focus on its core advanced regenerative therapeutics and technology platforms. Reported publication of a scientific article, entitled Identifying and Overcoming Obstacles in Angiogenic Gene Therapy for Myocardial Ischemia, by Gabor M. Rubanyi, M.D., Ph.D., Cardiums Chief Scientific Officer, in the August 2014 issue of the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology . The publication outlines advances in scientific and medical knowledge pioneered by Cardium and others in therapeutic angiogenesis for myocardial ischemia, including mechanistic and biological insights, optimization of clinical trial design, and selection of target patient populations and meaningful efficacy endpoints. The publication also reports, for the first time, the results of studies performed by Cardium researchers and collaborators, demonstrating a synergistic interaction between Generx-expressed fibroblast growth factor-4 (FGF-4) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the promotion of neovessel formation, with evidence that FGF controls angiogenesis upstream of VEGF. Completed the pilot phase of our Generx ASPIRE Phase 3 / registration study, a 100-patient, randomized and controlled multi-center study at leading cardiology centers in the Russian Federation for patients with myocardial ischemia due to coronary artery disease, and engaged a new clinical research organization to support continuation of the study in coordination with a planned strategic partner. The ASPIRE study is designed to further evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Cardiums Generx DNA-based angiogenic product candidate, which has already been tested in clinical studies involving 650 patients at more than one hundred medical centers in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. The efficacy of Generx is being quantitatively assessed using rest and stress SPECT (Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography) myocardial imaging to measure improvements in microvascular cardiac perfusion following a one-time, non-surgical, catheter-based administration of Generx. The Cedars-Sinai Medical Center Nuclear Cardiology Core Laboratory in Los Angeles, California, is the central core lab for the study and is responsible for the analysis of SPECT myocardial imaging data electronically transmitted from the Russian medical centers participating in the ASPIRE study. The Russian Health Authority has assigned Generx the therapeutic drug trade name of Cardionovo for marketing and sales in Russia. 15 Table of Contents Published important Generx findings in the peer-reviewed journal Human Gene Therapy Methods that demonstrate that Cardiums innovative technique employing transient cardiac ischemia can be used to dramatically enhance gene delivery and transfection efficiency after one-time intracoronary administration of adenovector in mammalian hearts. These finding have been incorporated into the treatment protocols of the Generx ASPIRE Phase 3 study. Commercialization of Excellagen Excellagen is an FDA-cleared, pharmaceutically-formulated acellular biological modulator that has been engineered to activate and promote wound healing through the growth of granulation tissue in chronic non-healing diabetic foot, pressure and venous ulcers, as well as other dermal wounds (including traumatic and surgical wounds). We believe that Excellagen is a cost-effective, easy to use professional product that has now been classified for reimbursement purposes by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as a unique skin substitute- a designation which is consistent with other forms of skin substitutes including living skin equivalents Dermagraft and Apligraf and human dermal and amnion placental tissue-based products including Graftjacket and EpiFix . Excellagen is prepared as a sterile professional-use syringe, containing a physiologically formulated homogenate of purified atelopeptide bovine dermal collagen (Type I) in its native 3-dimensional fibrillar configuration. Excellagen is designed to provide a structural scaffold for chemotaxis, cellular adhesion, migration and proliferation to promote wound healing. Company-funded research and published scientific literature also support Excellagens capability to activate blood platelets to release growth factors, including Platelet-Derived Growth Factor (PDGF), an important endogenous wound healing mediator. In a U.S.-based, multi-center, randomized and controlled clinical study (the Matrix study), a single protocol specified application of Excellagen was found to accelerate the rate of tissue granulation at one week by 204% compared to standard of care (p=0.018), and this accelerated healing response continued for two weeks (104%; p=0.032). While Excellagen is FDA-cleared for use in a broad array of dermal wounds, initial clinical focus has been on the treatment of chronic non-healing diabetic foot, pressure and venous ulcers. In December 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) made a final determination to assign Excellagen a unique, product-specific Q code, classifying Excellagen as a skin substitute, after reviewing our HCPCS Level II Code Modification Request and subsequent supporting information for Excellagen as a wound care product indicated for the treatment of hard to heal wounds such as diabetic foot ulcers and pressure ulcers as well as other dermal wounds. This new reimbursement code took effect January 1, 2014, although a reimbursement rate has not yet been determined. In addition to its application for dermal wounds, Excellagens pharmaceutically formulated collagen has been engineered to serve as a biologics delivery platform, potentially enabling multiple device, tissue scaffolding and therapeutic product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells, biologics, peptides and small molecule drugs. This technological attribute of Excellagen is expected to enable product extensions, which could be co-developed for commercialization with a variety of different strategic partners. Consistent with our business strategy, Excellagen has been substantially credentialized and we are now seeking strategic partners to market and sell Excellagen in the United States and elsewhere through multiple marketing channels. The Company has continued to pursue a CE mark certification for Excellagen.Developments with respect to Excellagen include: Excellagen flowable dermal matrix in combination with Orbsen Therapeutics mesenchymal stromal stem cell therapy Cyndacel-M has been selected for clinical evaluation in a Phase 1b safety study for the potential treatment of chronic diabetic wounds to be funded by the European Union under EU Framework 7 (FP7). The project, known by the acronym REDDSTAR (Repair of Diabetic Damage by Stromal Cell Administration), is being coordinated by Professor Timothy OBrien, Dean of Medicine and Director of Irelands Regenerative Medicine Institute (REMEDI) at National University of Ireland Galway (NUI). The REDDSTAR preclinical studies evaluated the use of Excellagen and an alternative collagen-based product to promote the maintenance of stem cell viability. The combination of Cyndacel-M and Excellagen improved wound closure and neo-vascularization in a diabetic dermal wound healing model. Based on those results, Excellagen was selected to be used with Cyndacel-M in a human clinical study. Continued activities relating to the strategic partnering process and monetization Excellagen flowable dermal matrix wound care product for select U.S.-based vertical market channels and geographic markets. Activities have also continued to leverage Excellagen as an advanced 16 Table of Contents regenerative medicine delivery platform by identifying innovative potential future product extensions for tissue regeneration based on stem cells, biologics, peptides and/or small molecule drugs. Consistent with the Companys long-term business strategywe do not plan to build inventory or establish an internal marketing and sales force to directly support the commercialization of Excellagen. We are continuing to credentialize Excellagen in preparation for the completion of strategic partnerings for various vertical channel market opportunities or asset monetization. We have continued to pursue a CE mark certification for Excellagen and look forward to completing this process. Cooperation Agreement with Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Ltd. On February 28, 2014, we entered into a collaboration and financing arrangement with Shanxi Taxus, a strategic corporate investor based in China, pursuant to which the parties agreed to collaborate on the advancement of the Companys product opportunities in China, and the investors product opportunities in the United States. The arrangement is reflected in two definitive agreements, each dated as of February 21, 2014, which were concluded and delivered on February 28, 2014, in connection with the first tranche of funding under the financing arrangement. Under the terms of a collaboration agreement, Shanxi Taxus agreed to apply commercially reasonable efforts to assist Cardium to develop and refine a plan or plans pursuant to which Cardium products, particularly our Generx and Excellagen product opportunities, could be commercialized in China; and we agreed, upon request, to apply commercially reasonable efforts to assist Shanxi Taxus to develop and refine a plan or plans pursuant to which Shanxi Taxus oncology-related products and product opportunities could be commercialized in the United States. As part of the agreement we changed our name to Taxus Cardium Pharmaceuticals Group, Inc. In addition, we agreed to grant Shanxi Taxus certain board rights based on the level of its financing pursuant to the financing arrangement. Cardium and Shanxi Taxus are moving forward with plans to explore the commercialization of Cardiums advanced regenerative medicine therapeutic products for the emerging and rapidly growing advanced healthcare market in China. Mr. Jiayue Zhang, who is the Chairman of Shanxi Taxus, and an additional individual with U.S. corporate and financial experience, have now joined Cardiums Board of Directors. Cooperation Agreement with Dr. Reddy Laboratories On April 6, 2015, the Company entered into a term sheet with Dr. Reddys Laboratories Ltd. (NYSE: RDY) covering the co-development, marketing and sales of the Generx [Ad5FGF-4] angiogenic microvascular gene therapy Phase 3 product candidate for patients with refractory angina and myocardial ischemia due to cardiac microvascular insufficiency. The terms sheet outlines the principle agreements between the parties and is binding, but is expected to be superseded by a definitive agreement with more detailed terms. The term sheet grants Dr. Reddys Laboratories an exclusive license to market and sell Generx in Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Venezuela, Vietnam and Myanmar (the Licensed Territories) for a period of ten years with two five-year renewal options. Dr. Reddys Laboratories Russian-based business unit currently markets and sells prescription products in Russia. The term sheet grants Dr. Reddys Laboratories a right of first negotiation for the license rights to market and sell Generx in up to 32 other countries in Latin America and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. The Company retains full commercialization rights for North America, Europe, Japan, China, the Middle East, and Africa. As co-development partner, Dr. Reddys Laboratories will assist with physician and hospital relationships as well as patient recruitment to accelerate completion of international Phase 3 ASPIRE clinical study in Russia. Dr. Reddys Laboratories Russian-based business unit markets and sells prescription products through its team of medical representatives and managers who promote the products to physicians across Russia. It has also agreed to assist with product registrations and regulatory compliance with local 17 Table of Contents country health authorities in other jurisdictions in the Licensed Territories. Upon registration of Generx in Russia, Taxus Cardium and Dr. Reddys Laboratories have agreed to share costs for a planned Phase 4 post-marketing clinical study, intended to expand the medical indications for which the product can be used. The term sheet requires Dr. Reddys Laboratories to pay upfront licensing fees on execution of the definitive agreement and upon registration of the Generx product in Russia. The Company will retain control over the manufacturing of Generx and will supply it to Dr. Reddys Laboratories on a cost-plus basis. Dr. Reddys will pay royalties on net sales of Generx, with the percentage varying based on the degree of market penetration for the product in the relevant territory. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 in this report have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and their accompanying notes. We have identified certain policies that we believe are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, including obsolescence reserve for inventory, valuation of equity instruments, and impairment of long-lived assets. These significant accounting estimates or assumptions bear the risk of change due to the fact that there are uncertainties attached to these estimates or assumptions, and certain estimates or assumptions are difficult to measure or value. We base our estimates on our historical experience, industry standards, and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An adverse effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations could occur if circumstances change that alter the various assumptions or conditions used in such estimates or assumptions. We record reserves for inventories that are obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or carried at an amount that exceeds managements estimate of net realizable value. In establishing such reserves, management considers historical sales of identical and/or similar goods, product development plans and expected market demand. We calculate the value of equity compensation expense associated with the issuance of warrants and stock options using the Binomial and Black-Scholes Option Model. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards requires the input of a number of subjective assumptions including the expected stock volatility, the riskfree interest rate, theoptions expected life, the dividend yield on the underlying stock. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of equitybased payment awards represent managements best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, equitybased compensation could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimates, the equitybased compensation could be significantly different from what the Company has recorded in the current period. If we were to undervalue our derivative liabilities or stock option compensation expense we would understate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operation. Conversely if we were to overvalue our warrant and stock option compensation expenses we would overstate the expense recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of our long lived assets to determine whether the value is impaired or a write down may be necessary for an other than temporary decline in value. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 no impairment was recorded. Our other significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our financial statements. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $78,562 compared to $243,544 for the same period in 2014. The decrease of $164,982 was the result of decreased costs related to our Generx Aspire study, a reduction in personnel costs and related stock compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $529,695 compared to $1,194,945 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease of $665,250 was the result of a number of cash savings initiatives implemented during the second half of 2014 including an overall reduction in personnel costs of 54% as a result of headcount and salary reductions and related stock compensation. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $1,168 and represents credit card related finance charges. Net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $609,425 (including $117,447 noncash stock based compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expense) compared to a net loss of $1,438,489 (including $506,165 of noncash stock based compensation expense, $454,756 included in selling, general and administrative expense and $51,409 included in research and development expense) for the same period of 2014. The decrease in net loss was primarily a result of the decrease in operating expenses described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015, we had $8,866 in cash and cash equivalents. Our working capital deficit at March 31, 2015 was $2,497,187. Net cash used in operating activities was $207,867 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $316,497for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease of $108,630 in net cash used in operating activities was due primarily to spending and headcount and salary reductions in the second half of 2014 and early 2015. We had no net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. At March 31, 2015 we did not have any significant capital expenditure requirements. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $457,500 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. For the three month ended March 31, 2014 net cash from financing activities was the result of the first tranche of a common stock equity financing with Shanxi Taxus, our strategic investor. The Company sold 714,826 shares of common stock at a price of $0.70 per share for aggregate proceeds of $0.5 million. There were no proceeds from financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015. We anticipate that negative cash flow from operations will continue for the foreseeable future. We do not have any unused credit facilities. As long as any shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding, we have agreed that we will not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, incur indebtedness other than specified Permitted Indebtedness, or incur any liens other than specified Permitted Liens. We intend to secure additional working capital through sales of additional debt or equity securities to finance our operations. On April 4, 2015, we entered into a binding term sheet with Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus Industry Capital Management Co., Ltd (Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus), as lead investor, to purchase an equity stake in Angionetics Inc. Under the terms of the agreement, Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus agreed to acquire 15% of Angionetics outstanding common stock, from the Company, for an aggregate purchase price of $3,000,000, payable in three tranches to be completed by May 30, 2015. On completion of the purchase, Taxus Cardium has agreed to grant Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus a right of first negotiation for exclusive license agreements for certain Asian markets to fund local country registrations, market and sell the Generx product candidate, Excellagen , an FDA-cleared dermal matrix product for advanced wound healing and a delivery platform for biologics and stem cells, and LifeAgain , an advanced medical data analytics product technology platform. The agreement contemplates that this initial funding is a bridge equity investment to a separate larger financing to be conducted by Angionetics Inc., including a potential registration and public offering of securities. The terms provide for Taxus Cardium to gross up Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus shares to equate to a 15% interest in Angionetics following any such public offering. It also provides for certain registration rights for the shares purchased by Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus. We expect that the proceeds of this offering, if received in full, will be sufficient to fund our operations through December 31, 2015. As of the date of this report Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus has paid $600,000 of the financing. 19 Table of Contents Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus is an affiliate of Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. which holds approximately 27.5% of Cardiums outstanding common stock as a result of a Stock Purchase Agreement dated February 21, 2014. In connection with that transaction, the Company granted Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. the right to appoint two members to our Board of Directors. Mr. Jiayue Jhang, one of the appointed members of our Board of Directors who serves as our Chairman, is the Chairman of Shenzhen Qianhai Taxus and Shanxi Taxus Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. Our principal business objectives are to advance the independent monetization and funding activities of our core products and technologies, with our Angionetics Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Generx angiogenic gene therapy product candidate, and our Activation Therapeutics, Inc. subsidiary being focused on the Excellagen FDA-cleared wound care product and the joint clinical development of Excellagen product line extensions as an advanced biologic delivery platform for new and innovative wound healing therapeutics, and/or to complete alterative corporate transactions. If we fail to conclude such transaction in a timely manner or alternatively fail to generate sufficient cash from financing activities, we will not generate sufficient cash flows to cover our operating expenses. Our history of recurring losses and uncertainties as to whether our operations will become profitable raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets or classifications of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet debt nor did we have any transactions, arrangements, obligations (including contingent obligations) or other relationships with any unconsolidated entities or other persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or significant components of revenue or expenses material to investors.